NOT    ro  BE    TAKI:N 


FROM    'HI         BRARY 


\    STUDIA    IN 


7/m  book  belongs  lo 

O 

THE   LIBRARY 

of 
VICTORIA  UNIVERSITY 

Toronto  5.  Canada 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD 
BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


THE 

INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD 
BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


JAMES  ORR,  M.A.,  D.D.,  GENERAL  EDITOR 

JOHN  L.  NUELSEN,  D.D.,  LL.D. 
EDGAR  Y.  MULLINS,  D.D.,  LL.D. 

ASSISTANT  EDITORS 

MORRIS  0.  EVANS,  D.D.,  PH.D.,  MANAGING  EDITOR 


VOLUME  V 
SOCKET-ZUZIM 

INDEXES 


CHICAGO 

THE  HOWARD-SEVERANCE  COMPANY 
1915 


Solemn  Assembly 
Solomon 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2822 


ing  "ceremonious."  From  this  is  derived  (3)  the 
usual  modern  force  of  "grave"  in  opposition  to 
"joyous."  This  last  meaning  is  not  in  Bib.  Eng., 
and  the  meanings  of  "solemn"  in  EV  are  either  (1) 
or  (2).  Nor  is  there  any  certain  case  of  (1),  for 
the  word  is  always  a  gloss  in  EV  and,  although  fre- 
quently introduced  in  references  to  annual  events 
(Lev  23  36,  etc),  it  is  even  more  often  used  where 
"annual"  is  foreign  to  the  passage  (2  K  10  20; 
Ps  92  3,  etc).  The  use  of  the  word  in  AV  is  unsys- 
tematic. It  is  always  (except  in  Jer  9  2)  found  in 
conjunction  with  "assembly"  when  (10  t)  the  latter 
word  represents  Yicarah  ('agereth)  (Lev  23  30,  etc) 
(retained  by  RV  with  m  "closing  festival,"  Lev  23 
36'  2  Ch  7  9;  Neh  8  IS).  AV  uses  "solemnity' 
or '"solemn  day,"  "feast,"  etc,  17  t  for  ^  the  very 
common  word  mo'cdh  ("appointed"  time,  etc; 
see  FEAST). 

RVs    treatment    of    these    passages    defies    analysis 
"Solemnity"    is    kept    in    Isa  33  '20;     Ezk  46  11,    and 
"solemn" 'in   Lam   (4  t) ;     Hos    (:{   t):     Zeph  3    IS.     In 
Ezk  36  38-   45   17;   46  '.)  it  is  replaced  by     appointed, 
elsewhere    (and    for    mo'ddhoth.    '_'  Ch  8    13)    by    "set." 
The    margins   further   complicate    the   renderings.     AV 
also  uses   "solemn"  with  hmjli.   "feast,"   4  t.   and  with 
Mghagh,    "keep   a   feast,"    in    Ht  16    ir».      The    word   is 
dropped  by  RV.  except   KRV  in  Ps  81  ».     Finally,  AV 
and  RV  have  "solemn  sound      for  higgayon,  in  I  i 
The  context,  however,   demands  "resounding  melody. 
\nd  11  t  RV  has  introduced  "solemn"  to  represent  the 
Intensive  in  the  form  xh«!>l>t,th  shabbdthon  (Ex   16   123.  etc), 
where  AV  has  simply  "sabbath"  or  "sabbath  of  rest 
RV  here  has  imitated  the  adverbial  "solemnly      in  the 
similar  intensified  expressions  in  (Jen  43  3;    1 

RV  Apoc  translates  en  hemt'rais  Icm'rou,  "in  the 
days  of  the  season"  (Bar  1  14),  by  "on  the  days  of 
the  solemn  assembly"  (AV  "solemn  days"),  and 
both  AV  and  RV  have  "solemn  feast  days"  for  dies 
festos  (2  Esd  131).  Otherwise  AV's  use  of  "solemn" 
is  dropped  by  RV.  BURTOX  SCOTT  EASTON 

SOLEMN  ASSEMBLY  (MEETING)     See  Cox- 


GRKCATIOX;    FASTS  AND  FKASFI> 
XITY. 


SOLEMN,  SOLEM- 


SOLOMON,    sol'6-mun    (i"P3"5Tp, 
SoXo|j.u>v,  Solomon): 

I.     EARLY  LIFE 

1.  Name  and  Meaning 

2.  Sources 

3.  Birth  and  Upbringing 

4.  His  Accession 

r>.  Closing  Days  of  David 
II.      RKICN-    OF   SOLOMON- 

1.  His  Vision 

2.  His  Policy 

3.  Its  Results 

4.  Alliance  with  Tyre 

5.  Alliance  with  Egypt 
(i.  Domestic  Troubles 

III.     His    BuiLinxr.rt 

1.  The  Temple 

2.  The  Palace 

3.  Other  Buildings 

4.  The  Corv6e 
IV.      His   CHARACTER 

1.  Personal  Qualities 

2.  His  Wisdom 
li.    His  Learning 

4.  Trade  and  Commerce 
r>.   Officers  of  State 
r>.    Wives 

7.  Revenues 

8.  Literary  Works 
LITERATURE 

I.  Early  Life. — Solomon  was  the  son  of  David  and 
Bath-sheba,  and  became  the  3d  king  of  Israel.  He 

was  so  named  by  his  mother  (2  S  12 
1.  Name  24,  K°re;  see  TEXT),  but  by  the  prophet 
and  Mean-  Nathan,  or  by  his  father  (Vulg),  he 
ing  was  called  Jedidiah — "loved  of  Jeh." 

The  name  "Solomon"  is  derived  from 
the  root  meaning  "to  be  quiet"  or  "peaceful,"  and 
S.  was  certainly  the  least  warlike  of  all  the  kings 
of  Israel  or  Judah,  and  in  that  respect  a  remarkable 
contrast  to  his  father  (so  1  Ch  22  9).  His  name 


in  Ileb  compares  with  Irenaeus  in  Gr,  Friedrich  in 
Ger.,  and  Selim  in  Arab.;  but  it  has  been  suggested 
that  the  name  should  be  pronounced  shilltimah,  from 
the  word  denoting  "compensation,"  Bath-sheba's 
second  son  being  given  in  compensation  for  the  loss 
of  the  first  (but  see  3,  below). 

The  oldest  sources  for  the  biography  of  S.   are 

doubtless  the  "Annals  of  Solomon"  referred  to  in 

1  K  11  41,  the  "history  of  Nathan  the 

2.  Sources     prophet,"    the    "prophecy    of    Ahijah 

the  Shilonite"  and  the  "visions  of 
Iddo  the  seer,"  mentioned  in  2  Ch  9  29,  all  which 
may  be  merely  the  relative  sections  of  the  great 
book  of  the  "Annals  of  the  Kings"  from  which  our 
Books  of  K  and  Ch  are  both  derived.  These  ancient 
works  are,  of  course,  lost  to  us  save  in  so  far  as  they 
have  been  embodied  in  the  OT  narrative.  There 
the  life  of  S.  is  contained  in  2  S  12  24  f;  1  K  1-11; 
1  Ch  22—2  Ch  9.  Of  these  sources  2  S  12  21  f 
and  1  K  1,  2  are  much  the  oldest  and  in  fact  form 
part  of  one  document,  2  S  9-20;  1  K  1,  2  dealing 
with  the  domest  ic  affairs  of  David,  which  may  well 
1)0  contemporary  with  the  events  it  describes.  The 
date  of  the  composition  of  the  Books  of  Ch  is  about 
;>0()  ]$o_7QO  years  after  the  time  of  S.— and  the 
date  of  the  Books  of  K,  as  a  completed  work,  must, 
of  course,  be  later  than  the  exile.  Nothing  of 
importance  is  gained  from  citations  from  early 
historians  in  Jos  and  later  writers.  Far  and  away 
the  best  source  for,  at  least,  the  inner  life  of  S.  would 
bo  the  writings  ascribed  to  him  in  the  OT,  could  we 
be  sure  that  these  were  genuine  (see  below). 

The  children  of  David  by  Bath-sheba  are  given  in 

1  Ch  3  5  as  Shimea,  Shobab,  Nathan  and  Solomon. 

Cf  also  2  S  6  14;   1  Ch  14  4,  where 

3.  Birth          the  same  persons  evidently  are  named. 
and  Up-          It  would  thus  appear  that  S.  was  the 
bringing         4th     son     of     Bath-sheba,     supposing 

Shimea  to  be  the  child  that  died. 
Otherwise  S.  would  be  the  ,5th  son.  There  are 
therefore  some  events  omitted  in  2  S  12  24  f,  or 
else  the  names  Shobab  and  Nathan  are  remains  of 
some  clause;  which  has  been  lost,  and  not  proper 
names.  Like  the  heir  apparent  of  a  Turkish  sultan, 
S.  seems  to  have  spent  his  best  years  in  the  seclusion 
of  the  harem.  There  ho  was  doubtless  more  influ- 
enced by  his  mother  than  by  his  father,  and  in  close 
intimacy  with  his  mother  was  the  prophet  Nathan, 
who  had  given  him  his  by-name  of  fortunate  import 
(2  S  12  25). 

It  was  not  until  David  lay  on  his  deathbed  that 
S.  left  the  women's  quarters  and  made  his  appear- 
ance   in    public.     That    he   had   been 

4.  His  Ac-     selected  by  David,  as  the  son  of  the 
cession  favorite  wife,   to  succeed  him,  is  pre- 
supposed   in    the    instructions    which 

he  received  from  his  father  regarding  the  building 
of  the  Temple.  But  as  soon  as  it  appeared  that  the 
life  of  David  was  Hearing  its  end,  it  became  evident 
that  S.  was  not  to  have  a  "walk  over."  He  found 
a  rival  in  Adonijuh  the  son  of  Haggith,  who  was 
apparently  the  eldest  surviving  son  of  his  father, 
and  who"  had  the  support  of  Joab,  by  far  the 
strongest  man  of  all,  of  Abiathar,  the  leading,  if 
not  the  favorite,  priest  (cf  2  S  15  24  fT),  and  of  the 
princes  of  the  royal  house.  S.,  on  the  other  hand, 
had  the  support  of  his  mother  Bath-sheba,  David's 
favorite  wife,  of  Nathan  the  court  prophet,  of  Zadok 
who  had  eclipsed  Abiathar,  of  Benaiah,  the  son  of  a 
priest,  but  one  of  the  three  bravest  of  David's  sol- 
diers, and  captain  of  the  bodyguard  of  Cherethites 
and  Pelethites,  and  of  the  principal  soldiers.  It  is 
esp.  noted  that  Shimei  and  Hushai  (so  Jos)  took  no 
active  part  at  any  rate  with  Adonijah  (1  K  1  8). 
The  conspiracy  came  to  nothing,  for,  before  it 
i  developed,  S.  was  anointed  at  Gibeon  (not  Gihon, 
I  1  K  1  33.38.45),  and  entered  Jerus  as  king. 


2823 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Solemn  Assembly 
Solomon 


The  age  of  S.  at  his  accession  is  unknown.  The 
expression  in  1  K  3  7  is  not,  of  course,  to  be  taken 
literally  (otherwise  Ant,  VIII,  vii,  8). 
5.  Closing  His  reign  opened,  like  that  of  many  an 
Days  of  oriental  monarch,  with  a  settlement  in 
David  blood  of  Ihe  accounts  of  the  previous 

reign.  Joab,  David's  nephew,  who 
had  brought  the  house  within  the  bounds  of  blood 
revenge,  was  executed.  Adonijah,  as  soon  as  his 
father  had  breathed  his  last,  was  on  a  nominal 
charge  put  to  death.  Abiathar  was  relegated  to  his 
home  at  Anathoth  (1  K  2  20).  Conditions  were 
imposed  on  Shimei  which  he  failed  to  keep  and  so 
forfeited  his  life  (2  3(3  ff).  These  steps  having 
been  taken,  S.  began  his  reign,  as  it  were,  with  a 
clean  slate. 

//.  Reign  of  Solomon. — It  was  apparently  at  the 
very  beginning  of  his  reign  that  S.  made  his  famous 
choice  of   a   "hearing   heart,"   i.e.   an 
!•  His  obedient  heart,  in  preference  to  riches 

Vision  or  long  life.     The  vision  took  place  at 

Gibeon  (2  Ch  1  7,  but  in  1  K  3  4  f 
the  ancient  versions  read  "upon  the  altar  that  was 
in  Gibeon.  And  the  Lord  appeared,"  etc).  The  life 
of  S.  was  a  curious  commentary  on  his  early  resolu- 
tion. One  of  the  first  acts  of  his  reign  was  appar- 
ently, in  the  style  of  the  true  oriental  monarch, 
to  build  himself  a  new  palace,  that  of  his  father 
being  inadequate  for  his  requirements.  In  regard 
to_  politics,  however,  the  events  of  Solomon's 
reign  may  be  regarded  as  an  endorsement  of  his 
choice.  Under  him  alone  was  the  kingdom  of  Israel 
a  great  world-power,  fit  almost  to  rank  beside 
Assyria  and  Egypt.  Never  again  were  the  bounds 
of  Israel  so  wide;  never  again  were  north  and  south 
united  in  one  great  nation.  There  is  no  doubt  that 
the  credit  of  this  result  is  due  to  the  wisdom  of  S. 

S.  was  by  nature  an  unwarlike  person,  and  his 
whole  policy  was  in  the  direction  of  peace.     He 
disbanded  the  above-mentioned  foreign 
2.  His  legion,  the  Cherethites  and  Pelethites, 

Policy  who  had  done  such  good  service  as 

bodyguard  to  his  father.  All  his 
officers  seem  to  have  been  mediocre  persons  who 
would  not  be  likely  to  force  his  hand,  as  Joab  had 
done  that  of  David  (2  S  3  39).  Even  the  forti- 
fication of  Jems  and  of  the  frontier  towns  was  under- 
taken with  a  view  to  repel  attack,  not  for  the 
purposes  of  offence.  S.  did,  no  doubt,  strengthen 
the  army,  esp.  the  cavalry  arm  (1  K  4  26;  10  2G), 
but  he  never  made  any  use  of  this,  and  perhaps  it 
existed  largely  on  paper.  At  any  rate  S.  seems  to 
have  been  rather  a  breeder  of  and  dealer  in  horse- 
flesh than  a  soldier.  He  appears  also  to  have  had 
a  fine  collection  of  armor  (10  25),  but  much  of  it 
was  made  of  gold  (10  Ib'f)  and  was  intended  for 
show,  not  for  use.  Both  in  his  reputation  for 
wisdom  and  in  his  aversion  to  war  S.  bears  a  striking 
resemblance  to  King  James  VI  of  Scotland  and 
I  of  England,  as  depicted  by  the  hand  of  Sir  Walter 
Scott.  It  was  fortunate  for  him  that  both  the 
neighboring  great  powers  were  for  the  time  in  a 
decadent  state,  otherwise  the  history  of  the  kingdom 
of  Israel  would  have  ended  almost  before  it  had 
begun.  ^  On  the  other  hand,  it  has  been  remarked 
that  if  S.  had  had  anything  like  the  military  genius 
of  David  and  his  enthusiasm  for  the  religion  of 
Jch,  he  might  have  extended  the  arms  of  Israel  from 
the  Nile  to  the  Tigris  and  anticipated  the  advent 
of  Islam.  But  his  whole  idea  was  to  secure  him- 
self in  peace,  to  amass  wealth  and  indulge  his  love 
of  grandeur  with  more  than  oriental  splendor. 

S.,  in  fact,  was  living  on  the  achievements  and 
reputation  of  his  father,  who  laid  the  basis  of 
security  and  peace  on  which  the  commercial  genius 
of  S.  could  raise  the  magnificent  structure  which  he 
did.  But  he  took  the  clay  from  the  foundations  in 


order  to  build  the  walls.     The  Hebrews  were  a  mili- 
tary  people   and   in   that   consisted  their  life.     S. 
withdrew    their    energies    from    their 

3.  Its  natural  bent  and  turned  them  to  coin- 
Results          merce,  for  which  they  were  not  yet  ripe. 

Their  soul  rebelled  under  the  irksome 
drudgery  of  an  industry  of  which  they  did  not  re-ip 
the  fruits.  S.  had  in  fact  reduced  a  free  people 
to  slavery,  and  concentrated  the  wealth  of  the  whole 
country  in  the  capital.  As  soon  as  he  was  out  of  the 
way,  his  country  .subjects  threw  off  the  yoke  and 
laid  claim  to  their  ancient  freedom.  His  son  found 
himself  left  with  the  city  and  a  territory  as  small  as 
an  English  county. 

Solomon's  chief  ally  was  Hiram,  the  king  of  Tyre, 
probably  the  friend  and  ally  of  David,  who  is  to  be 

distinguished  from  Hiram  the  artificer 

4.  Alliance    of   1  K  7  13  ff.     Hiram  the  king  en- 
with  Tyre      tercd  into  a  treaty  with  S.  which  was 

to  the  advantage  of  both  parties. 
Hiram  supplied  S.  with  cedar  and  pine  wood  from 
Lebanon,  as  well  as  with  .skilled  artisans  for  his 
building.  Tyrian  sailors  were  also  drafted  into  the 
ships  of  S.,  the  Hebrews  not  being  used  to  the 
sea  (1  K  9  20  f),  besides  which  Phoen  ships  sailed 
along  with  those  of  S.  The  advantages  which  Hi- 
ram received  in  return  were  that  the  Red  Sea  was 
open  to  his  merchantmen,  and  lie  also  received  large 
supplies  of  corn  and  oil  from  the  land  of  Israel 
(1  K  6  11  corrected  by  LXX  and  2  Ch  2  10). 
At  the  conclusion  of  the  building  of  the  palace 
and  Temple,  which  occupied  20  years,  S.  presented 
Hiram  with  20  villages  (1  K  9  11;  the  converse, 
2  Ch  8  2),  and  Hiram  made  S.  a  return  present  of 
gold  (1  K  9  14;  omitted  in  2  Ch). 

Second   to   Hiram   was   the   Pharaoh   of   Egypt, 

whose  daughter  S.  married,  receiving  as  her  dower 

the  town  of  Gezer  (1  K  9  1(3).     This 

5.  Alliance    Pharaoh    is   not    named    in    the    OT 
with  Egypt     This  alliance  with  Egypt  led  to  the 

introduction  of  horses  into  Israel  (10 
28  f),  though  David  had  already  made  a  beginning 
on  a  small  scale  (2  S  8  4).  Both  these,  alliances 
lasted  throughout  the  reign.  There  is  no  mention 
of  an  alliance  with  the  eastern  power,  which  was 
then  in  a  decadent  state. 

It  was  probably  nearer  the  beginning  than  the  end 
of  Solomon's  reign  that  political  trouble  broke  out, 

within  the  realm.     When  David  had 

6.  Domestic  annexed  the  territory  of  the  Edomites 
Troubles        at  the  cost  of  the  butchery  of  the  male 

population  (cf  2  S  8  14;  Ps  60,  title) 
one  of  the  young  princes  of  the  reigning  house 
effected  his  escape,  and  sought  and  found  an  asylum 
in  Egypt,  where  he  rose  to  occupy  a  high  station. 
No  sooner  had  he  heard  of  the  death  of  David  and 
Joab  than  he  returned  to  his  native  country  and 
there  stirred  up  disaffections  against  S.  (1  K  11 
14  ff ;  see  HADAD),  without,  however,  restoring  inde- 
pendence to  Edoni  (1  K  9  26).  A  second  occasion 
of  disaffection  arose  through  a  prophet  having  fore- 
told that  the  successor  of  S.  would  have  one  of  the 
Israelite  tribes  only  and  that  the  other  ten  clans 
would  be  under  Solomon's  master  of  works  whom 
he  had  set  over  them.  This  officer  also  took  refuge 
in  Egypt  and  was  protected  by  Shishak.  He  re- 
mained there  until  the  death  of  S.  (1  K  11  26  ff). 
A  third  adversary  was  Rezon  who  had  fled  from  his 
master  the  king  of  Zobah  (1  K  11  23),  and  who 
established  himself  at  Damascus  and  founded  a 
dynasty  which  was  long  a  thorn  in  the  side  of  Israel. 
These  domestic  troubles  arc  regarded  as  a  conse- 
quence of  the  falling  away  of  S.  from  the  path  of 
rectitude,  but  this  seems  to  be  but  a  kind  of  antic- 
ipative  consequence,  that  is,  if  it  was  not  till  the 
end  of  his  reign  that  S.  fell  into  idolatry  and  poly- 
theism (1  K  11  4). 


Solomon 
S.'s  Servants 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2S24 


///.  His  Buildings.— The    great    undertaking  of 

the  reign  of  S.  was,  of  course,  THE  TEMPLE  (q.v.), 

which  was  at  first  probably  considered 

1.  The  as  the  Chapel  Royal  and  an  adjunct 
Temple           of  the  palace.     The  Temple  was  begun 

in  the  4th  year  of  the  reign  and  finished 
in  the  llth,  the  work"  of  the  building  occupying 
7%  years  (1  K  6;  7  13  ff).  The  delay  in  beginning 
is  remarkable",  if  the  material  were  all  ready  to  hand 
(1  Ch  22).  Worship  there  was  inaugurated  with 
fitting  ceremony  and  prayers  (1  K  8). 

To  S.,  however,  his  own  palace  was  perhaps  a  more 
interesting  undertaking.     It  at  any  rate  occupied 

more  time,   in   fact   13   years   (1  K  7 

2.  The  1-12;    9  10;    2  Ch  8  1),  the  time  of 
Palace            building     both     palace    and     Temple 

being  20  years.  Possibly  the  building 
of  the  palace  occupied  the  first  four  years  of  the 
reign  and  was  then  intermitted  and  resumed  after 
the  completion  of  the  Temple;  but  of  this  there  is 
no  indication  in  the  text.  It  was  called  the  House 
of  the  Forest  of  Lebanon,  from  the  fact  that  it  was 
lined  with  cedar  wood  (1  K  7  2).  A  description 
of  it  is  given  in  1  K  7  1-12. 

S.  also  rebuilt  the  wall  of  the  city  and  the  citadel 
(see    JERUSALEM;     MILLO).     He    likewise    erected 

castles  at  the  vulnerable  points  of  the 

3.  Other        front iers— Hazor,  Megiddo  and  ( lexer 
Buildings       (1  K  9  15),    lower    Beth-horon    and 

BAALATII  (q.v.).  According  to  the 
Kere  of  1  K  9  IS  and  the  ancient  YSS  as  well  as 
2  Ch  8  4,  he  was  the  founder  of  Tadmor  (Palmyra) ; 
but  the  K-thibh  of  1  K  9  IS  reads  Tamar  (cf  Exk 
47  19).  Some  of  the  remains  of  buildings  recently 
discovered  at  Megiddo  and  Gezer  may  go  back  to 
the  time  of  S. 

S.  could  not  have  built  on  the  scale  he  did  with  the 
resources  ordinarily  at  the  command  of  a  free  ruler. 

Accordingly  we  find  that  one  of  the 

4.  The  institutions  fostered  by^  him  was  the 
Corvee           corvee,  or  forced  labor.    No  doubt  some- 
thing of  the  kind  always  had  existed 

(Josh  9  21)  and  still  exists  in  all  despotic  govern- 
ments. Thus  the  people  of  a  village  will  be  called 
on  to  repair  the  neighboring  roads,  esp.  when  the 
Pasha  is  making  a  progress  in  the  neighborhood. 
But  S.  made  the  thing  permanent  and  national 
(1  K  6  13-15;  9  15).  The  immediate  purpose  of 
the  levy  was  to  supply  laborers  for  work  in  the 
Lebanon  in  connection  with  his  building  operations. 
Thus  30,000  men  were  raised  and  drafted,  10,000  at 
a  time,  to  the  Lebanon,  where  they  remained  for  a 
month,  thus  having  two  months  out  of  every  three 
at  home.  But  even  when  the  immediate  cause  had 
ceased,  the  practice  once  introduced  was  kept  up, 
and  it  became  one  of  the  chief  grievances  which  led 
to  the  dismemberment  of  the  kingdom  (1  K  12  18, 
Adoram  =  Adoniram;  cf  2  S  20  24),  for  hitherto 
the  corvee  had  been  confined  to  foreign  slaves  taken 
in  war  (1  K  9  21).  It  is  said  the  higher  posts 
were  reserved  for  Israelites,  the  laborers  being 
foreigners  (9  22),  that  is,  the  Israelites  acted  as 
foremen.  Some  of  the  foreign  slaves  seem  to  have 
formed  a  guild  in  connection  with  the  Temple 
which  lasted  down  to  the  time  of  the  exile  (Ezr 
2  55-57;  Noh  7  57-59;  see  NETHINIM). 

IV.  His  Character. — In  S.  we  have  the  type  of  a 
Turkish  sultan,  rather  than  a  king  of  Israel.     The 

Heb  kings,  whether  of  Israel  or 
1.  Personal  Judah,  were,  in  theory  at  least,  elect- 
Qualities  ive  monarchs  like  the  kings  of  Poland. 

If  one  happened  to  be  a  strong  ruler, 
he  managed  to  establish  his  family,  it  might  be, 
for  three  or  even  four  generations.  _  In  the  case  of 
the  Judaean  dynasty  the  personality  of  the  first 
king  made  such  a  deep  impression  upon  the  heart  of 
the  people;  that  the  question  of  a  change  of  dynasty 


there  never  became  pressing.  But  S.  would  prob- 
ably have  usurped  the  crown  if  he  had  not  inherited 
it,  and  once  on  the  throne  he  became  a  thorough- 
going despot.  All  political  power  was  taken  out 
of  the  hands  of  the  sheiks,  although  outward  respect 
was  still  paid  to  them  (1  K  8  1),  and  placed  in  the 
hands  of  officers  who  were  simply  creatures  of  S. 
The  resources  of  the  nation  were  expended,  not  on 
works  of  public  utility,  but  on  the  personal  aggran- 
dizement of  the  monarch  (1  K  10  18 ff).  In  the 
means  he  took  to  gratify  his  passions  he  showed  him- 
self to  be  little  better  than  a  savage,  and  if  he  did 
not  commit  such  great,  crimes  as  David,  it  was 
perhaps  because  he  had  no  occasion,  or  because 
he  employed  greater  cunning  in  working  out  his 
ends. 

The  wisdom  for  which  S.  is  so  celebrated  was  not 

of  a  very  high  order;   it  was  nothing  more  than 

practical  shrewdness,  or  knowledge  of 

2.  Wisdom    the  world  and  of  human  nature.     The 

common  example  of  it  is  that  given  in 
1  K  3  lOff,  to  which  there  are  innumerable  paral- 
lels in  Indian,  Gr  and  other  literatures.  The  same 
worldly  wisdom  lies  at  the  back  of  the  Book  of 
Prov,  and  there  is  no  reason  why  a  collection  of 
these  should  not  have  been  made  by  S.,  just  as  it  is 
more  likely  that  he  was  a  composer  of  verses  than 
that  he  was  not  (1  K  4  32).  The  statement  that 
he  had  breadth  of  heart  (4  29)  indicates  that  there 
was  nothing  known  which  did  not  come  within  his 
i  ken. 

The  word   ''wisdom,"   however,   is  used  also  in 
another  connection,  namely,  in  the  sense  of  theo- 
retical  knowledge   or   book   learning, 

3.  Learning  esp.  in  the  department  of  natural  his- 

tory. It  is  not  to  be  supposed  that  S. 
had  any  scientific  knowledge  of  botany  or  zoology, 
but  he 'may  have  collected  the  facts  of  observation, 
a  task  in  which  the  Oriental,  who  cannot  generalize, 
excels.  The  wisdom  and  understanding  (1  K  4  29) 
for  which  S.  was  famous  would  consist  largely  in 
stories  about  beasts  and  trees  like  the  well-known 
Fnhlcs  of  Pilpai.  They  included  also  the  "wisdom" 
for  which  Egypt  was  famous  (4  30),  that  is,  occult 
science.  It  results  from  this  last  statement  that  S. 
appears  in  post-Bib,  and  Arabian  lit.  as  a  magician. 
S.  was  very  literally  a  merchant  prince.  He  not 
only  encouraged  and  protected  commerce,  but 

engaged  in  it  himself.     He  was  in  fact 

4.  Trade        the  predominant,  if  not  sole,  partner  in 
and  Com-      a   great   trading   concern,   which   was 
merce  nothing  less  than  the  Israelite  nation. 

One  of  his  enterprises  was  the  horse 
trade;  with  Egypt.  His  agents  bought  up  horses 
which  were  again  sold  to  the  kings  of  the  Hittites 
and  the  Aramaeans.  The  prices  paid  are  men- 
tioned (1  K  1029).  The  best  of  these  S.  no  doubt, 
retained  for  his  own  cavalry  (1  K  10  20).  Another 
commodity  imported  from  that  country  was  linen 
yarn  (1  K  10  2S  AV).  The  navy  which  S.  built 
at  the  head  of  the  Gulf  of  Akaba  was  not  at  all  for 
military,  but  purely  commercial  ends.  They  were 
ships  of  Tarshish,  that  is,  merchant  ships,  not  ships 
sailing  to  Tarshish,  as  2  Ch  9  21.  They  traded  to 
OPHIR  (q.v.),  from  which  they  brought  gold,  silver, 


trees  (q.v.).  The  visit  of  the  Queen  of  Sheba  would 
point  to  the  ove-rland  caravan  routes  from  the  Yemen 
being  then  open  (1  K  10  15).  What  with  direct, 
imports  and  the  result,  of  sales,  silver  and  cedar 
wood  became  very  plentiful  in  the  capital  (10  27). 

The  list  of  Solomon's  officers  of  state  is  given  in 
1  K  4  2  ff.  These  included  a  priest,  two  secretaries, 
a  recorder,  a  commander-in-chief ,  a  chief  com- 
missariat officer,  a  chief  shepherd  (if  we  may  read 


THE  IXTERXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Solomon 
S.'s  Servants 


ro'e/i  for  rc'ch),  a  muster  of  the  household,  and  the 

head  of  the  corvee.     The  list  should  bo  compared 

with  those  of  David's  officers  (2  S  8 

5.  Officers     10  ff;    20  23  IT).     There   is   much   re- 
of  State          semblance,    but   we   can  see  that  the 

machine  of  .state  was  becoming  more 
complicated.  The  bodyguard  of  foreign  merce- 
naries was  abolished  and  the  captain  Benaiah  pro- 
moted to  be  commander-in-chief.  Two  scribes 
were  required  instead  of  one.  Twelve  commissariat 
officers  were  appointed  whose  duty  it  was  to 
forward  from  their  districts  the  supplies  for  the 
royal  household  and  .stables.  The  list  ojf  these 
officials,  a  very  curious  one,  is  given  in  1  K  4  7  IT. 
It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  12  districts  into  which 
the  country  was  divided  did  not  coincide  with  the 
territories  of  the  12  tribes.  It  may  be  remarked 
that  S.  seems  as  far  as  possible  to  have  retained  the 
old  servants  of  his  father.  It  will  be  noticed  also 
that  in  all  the  lists  there  is  mention  of  more  than 
one  priest.  These  "priests"  retained  some  of  their 
original  functions,  since  t  hey  acted  as  prognosticators 
and  diviners. 

Solomon's    principal    wife    was    naturally     the 

daughter  of  Pharaoh;   it  was  for  her  that  his  palace 

was  built   (1  K  3  1;    7  S;    9  10.24). 

6.  Wives        But  in  addition  to  her  he  established 

marriage  relat  ions  with  the  neighboring 
peoples.  In  some  cases  the  object  was  no  doubt  to 
cement  an  alliance,  as  with  the  Zidonians  and 
Hittites  and  the  other  nationalities  (11  1),  some  of 
which  were  forbidden  to  Israelites  (Dt  7  3').  It 
may  be  that  the  daughter  of  Pharaoh  was  childless 
or  died  a  considerable  time  before  S.,  but  his  favor- 
ite wife  was  latterly  a  granddaughter  of  Nahash, 
the  Ammonite  king  (1  K  14  21  LXX),  and  it  was 
her  son  who  succeeded  to  the  throne.  Many  of  S.'s 
wives  were  no  doubt  daughters  of  wealthy  or 
powerful  citizens  who  wished  by  an  alliance  with 
the  king  to  strengthen  their  own  positions.  Yet 
we  do  not  read  of  his  marrying  an  Israelite  wife. 
According  to  the  Arabian  story  Bilkis,  the  Queen  of 
Sheba  who  visited  S.  (1  K  10  1  ff),  was  also 
married  to  him.  He  appears  to  have  had  only  one 
son;  we  arc  not  told  of  any  other  than  Rehoboam. 
His  daughters  were  married  to  his  own  officers 
(1  K  4  11.15). 

S.  is  said  to  have  started  his  reign  with  a  capital 
sum  of  100,000  talents  of  gold  and  a  million  talents 
of  silver,  a  sum  greater  than  the  nation- 
7.  Revenues  al  debt  of  Great  Britain.  Even  so, 
this  huge  sum  was  car-marked  for  the 
building  of  the  Temple  (1  Ch  22  14).  His  income 
was,  for  one  year,  at  any  rate,  666  talents  of  gold 
(1  K  10  14),  or  about  twenty  million  dollars. 
This  seems  an  immense  sum,  but  it  probably  was 
not  so  much  as  it  looks.  The  great  mass  of  the 
people  were  too  poor  to  have  any  commodities 
which  they  could  exchange  for  gold.  Its  principal 
use  was  for  the  decoration  of  buildings.  Its  pur- 
chasing power  was  probably  small,  because  so  few 
could  afford  to  buy  it.  It  was  in  the  same  category 
as  the  precious  stones  which  are  of  great  rarity,  but 
which  are  of  no  value  unless  there  is  a  demand  for 
them.  In  the  time  of  S.  there  was  no  useful  pur- 
pose to  which  gold  could  be  put  in  preference  to 
any  other  metal. 

It  is  not  easy  to  believe  that  the  age  of  S.,  so 
glorious  in  other  respects,  had  not  a  literature  to 
correspond.     Yet    the    reign    of    the 
8.  Literary    sultan   Ismail  in  Morocco,   whom  S. 
Works  much   resembles,    might  _  be   cited    in 

favor  of  such  a  supposition.  S.  him- 
self is  stated  to  have  composed  3,000  animal  stories 
and  1,005  songs  (1  K  4  32).  In  the  OT  the  fol- 
lowing are  ascribed  to  him:  three  collections  of 
Proverbs,  1  Iff;  10  1  ff;  25  1  ff;  The  Song  of 


Songs;  Pss  72  and  127;  Eccl  (although  S.  is  not 
named).  In  Prov  25  1  the  men  of  Hezekiah  are 
said  to  have  copied  out  the  following  proverbs. 

LITERATURE. — The  relative  portions  of  the  histories  by 
Ewuld,  Stanley  (who  follows  Ewald),  Henan,  Wellhausen 
andKittel;  also  II.  Winekler,  Alttestamentliche  Untersuch- 
unycn;  and  the  comms.  on  the  Books  of  K  and  Ch. 

THOMAS  HUNTER  WEIR 

SOLOMON,  ODES  OF.  See  APOCALYPTIC 
LITERATURE,  B,  III,  2. 

SOLOMON,  POOLS  OF.  See  POOLS  OK  SOLO- 
MON*. 

SOLOMON,  PSALMS  (PSALTERj  OF.  See 
APOCALYPTIC  LITERATURE,  B,  III,  1. 

SOLOMON,  SONG  OF.     See  SONO  OK  Soxos. 

SOLOMON,  WISDOM  OF.  See  WISDOM  OF 
SOLOMON. 

SOLOMON'S  PORCH.  See  PORCH,  SOLO- 
MON'S. 

SOLOMON'S  SERVANTS  (nfc'~lp  n"^* , 
*Ldl)hrdhe  sh'iumoh;  8o{i\oi,  SaX.cojj.cov,  douloi  Salomon) : 
"The  children  of  Solomon's  servants"  constituted 
a  company  or  guild  of  the  Jewish  exiles  who  returned 
with  Zerubbabel  from  Babylonia  to  Jerus  in  537 
BC,  pursuant  to  the  decree  of  Cyrus;  they  are 
mentioned  5  t  (Ezr  2  ,55.58  ;Xeh  7  57.60;  Xeh 
11  3).  As  the  prime  purpose  of  the  returning 
exiles  was  the  rebuilding  of  the  Temple  and  the 
restoration  of  Jeh's  worship  (Ezr  1  2.3),  it  was 
important  that  those  who  held  the  privileges  of 
sanctuary  service  as  a  family  heritage  should  go  back 
to  their  duties.  This  included,  besides  priests  and 
Levites,  the  NETHIXIM  (q.v.)  and  Solomon's  Serv- 
ants. In  every  reference  to  them,  Solomon's  Serv- 
ants are  connected  with  the  Nethinim,  who  had 
been  "given"  or  dedicated  (ifthlnun  or  nethunim  is 
pass,  participle  of  nathan,  "to  give,"  "to  appoint") 
by  David  "for  the  service  of  the  Levites"  (Ezr  8 
20);  so  Solomon's  Servants  traced  their  official 
beginning  back  to  Solomon's  appointment,  as  their 
name  indicates.  In  the  joint  references  they  always 
fall  into  the  natural  chronological  order,  i.e.  following 
the  Nethinim.  It  is  possible,  therefore,  that  they 
are  referred  to  in  Ezr  7  24  also,  under  the  title 
"servants  of  this  house  of  God,"  which  immediately 
follows  "Nethinim"  in  the  list  of  those  exempt  from 
taxation  and  tolls. 

What  their  duties  in  the  house  of  God  may  have  been 
is  not  stated  in  the  records.  These  must  have  been 
more  or  less  menial,  the  more  formal  and  honorable  duties 
being  reserved  for  "the  priests  and  Levites,  the  singers, 
[and]  porters"  (Kzr  7  24).  When  the  ark  was  brought 
to  Jerus  by  David  and  the  ceremonial  of  the  sacrificial 
system  was  more  strictly  observed,  the  services  of 
priests  and  Levites  were  greatly  increased,  and  to  meet 
the  needs  of  the  new  order  David  appointed  the  Nethinim 
(K/r  8  20;  cf  1  Ch  9  2).  Likewise  the  much  greater 
increase  in  such  duties  on  the  completion  of  Solomon's 
Temple  was  the  occasion  for  the  dedication  of  an  addition- 
al number  of  these  assistants  to  the  Levites. 

The  number  of  those  who  returned  with  Zerubbabel 
was  not  great,  together  with  the  Nethinim  being  only 
392  This  does  not  appear  to  have  been  sufficient  for  the 
needs  of  the  sanctuary,  since  Ezra,  in  preparation  for  his 
expedition  in  458  HO,  made  special  appeal  for  Netnmlm 
to  go  with  him,  of  whom  220  responded  (Ezr  8  15-20). 
NTo  doubt  at  the  first  tlu-ir  service  was  considered  to  be- 
lowly;  but  by  the  time  of  the  exile,  certainly  after  it, 
their  position  had  developed  into  one  of  considerable 
honor  and  constituted  them  a  privileged  class  m  the 
nation.  While  many  of  the  people  were  required  by 
Nehemiah  to  live  in  Jerus,  they  were  allowed  to  dwell  in 
their  possessions  "in  the  cities  of  Judah'  (JNen  11  3). 

A  question  of  some  interest  and  of  difference 
of  opinion  is  whether  Solomon's  Servants  were 
Levites  or  non-Israelites.  The  latter  view  is  the 
more  generally  held,  for  the  following  reasons: 


Someis 
Son  of  God 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2820 


(1)  After  the  completion  of  the  Temple  and  his 
other  great  buildings  a  large  body  of  workmen, 
whom  Solomon  had  drafted  from  the  non-Israelite 
population,  were  without  occupation,  and  might 
well  have  been  assigned  to  the  menial  duties  of  the 
Temple  (I  K  9),  their  name  in  LXX  (douloi) 
properly  indicating  such  a  class;  (2)  Ezekicl  excludes 
non-Israelites  from  the  service  of  his  ideal  temple, 
as  though  they  had  been  allowed  in  the  preexihc 
Temple  (44  9);  (3)  they  are  always  clearly  dis- 
tinguished from  the  Levites  in  the  lists  of  religious 
bodies. 

But,  on  the  other  hand,  equally  strong  arguments 
favor  their  Levilical  descent:  (1)  Levites  also  are 
called  donloi  in  1  Esd;  (2)  it  is  more  probable  that 
E/ekiel  refers  to  the  abuses  of  Athaliah,  Ahaz  and 
Manasseh  than  to  the  institutions  of  David  and 
S:>bmon;  (3)  Ezra  specifically  classifies  the  Nethi- 
nimas  Levites  (8  15-20);  (4)  there  is  not  the  slight- 
est intimation  in  the  text  of  1  K  9  15-22  that  the 
gentile  bondservants  were  assigned  to  temple- 
service  after  completion  of  the  great  building 
operations;  such  an  interpretation  is  wholly  infer- 
ential, while,  on  the  contrary,  it  is  more  probable 
that  such  an  innovation  would  have  been  men- 
tioned in  the  narrative;  and  (5)  it  is  not  probable 
that  Ezra  and  Nehemiah,  or  Zerubbabel,  with  their 
strict  views  of  Israelitish  privilege  (cf  Ezr  2  02), 
would  have  admitted  non-Israelites  to  sacred 
functions,  the  less  so  in  view  of  EzekieFs  prohibi- 
tion. There  is  more  ground,  then,  for  holding  that 
Solomon's  Servants,  like  the  porters  and  singers, 
were  an  order  of  Levites.  EDWAUD  MACK 

SOMEIS,  so'me-is  (2o(xee(s,  Somecis;  AV  Samis) : 
One  of  the  Israelite's  who  put  away  their  foreign 
wives  (1  Esd  9  3  0  ==  "Shimei"  in  Ezr  10  3S. 

SOMETIME,  sum'tlm:  In  modern  Eng.  means 
"occasionally,"  and  is  so  used  in  Sir  37  11  for  Wore, 
en'iotc.  Otherwise  the  word  means  "at  some  past 
time,"  and  is  the  tr  of  TTOT*?,  pole.  RV  changes  to 
"aforetime"  in  Wisd  5  3;  1  Pet  3  20;  to  "once" 
in  Eph  2  13;  5  8;  to  "in  time  past"  in  Col  1  21; 
while  in  Col  3  7  ERV  has  "aforetime,"  ARV  "once." 
AV  does  not  distinguish  between  "sometime"  and 
"sometimes." 

SON,  sun,  SONS,  sunz:  (1)  In  Bib.  language  1  he 
word  "son"  is  used  first  of  all  in  its  strictly  literal 
sense  of  male  issue  or  offspring  of  a  man  or  woman. 
In  a  few  cases  in  the  OT,  as  in  Gen  3  1(>;  Josh  17 
2;  Jer  20  15,  the  Ileb  word  b<~n,  is  tr'1  correct ly 
in  the  Eng.  by  the  word  "child"  or  "children," 
as  it  includes 'both  sexes,  as  in  Gen  3  It),  or  is 
limited  to  males  by  the  use  of  the  modifying  term 
"male."  Closely  connected  with  this  meaning  of 
direct  male  issue  or  of  children  is  its  use  to  denote 
descendants,  posterity  in  the  more  general  sense. 
This  usage  which,  as  in  the  case  of  the  sons  (chil- 
dren) of  Israel,  may  be  regarded  perhaps  as  originat- 
ing in  the  conception  of  direct  descent  from  the 
common  ancestor  Israel,  came  in  the  course  of 
time  to  be  a  mere  ethnographic  designation,  so  that 
the  term  "the  children  of  Israel"  and  "the  children 
of  Ammon"  meant  no  more  than  Israelites  or 
Ammonites,  that  is,  inhabitants  of  the  lands  of 
Israel  or  Ammon  respectively.  An  extension  of 
this  usage  is  to  be  found  in  the  designation  of  a 
people  as  the  sons  or  children  of  a  land  or  city;  so 
in  Am  9  7  "children  of  the  Ethiopians,"  or  Ezk 
16  28,  where  the  literal  rendering  would  be  "sons  of 
Asshur,"  instead  of  the  Assyrians,  and  "the  children 
of  Jerus"  in  Joel  3  6.  See  BAB  (prefix);  BEX-. 

(2)  More  characteristic  of  Bib.  usage  is  the 
employment  of  the  word  "son"  to  indicate  member- 
ship in  a  class  or  guild,  as  in  the  common  phrase 


"sons  of  the  prophets,"  which  implies  nothing 
whatever  as  to  the  ancestry,  but  states  that  the 
individuals  concerned  are  members  of  the  pro- 
phetic guilds  or  schools.  In  the  NT  the  word 
"sons"  (huio'i)  in  Lk  11  19,  rendered  "children"  in 
Mt  12  27  AV,  means,  not  physical  descendants,  but 
members  of  the  class  or  sect;  according  to  Mt  the 
Pharisees,  who  were  attacking  Christ. 

(3)  The  word  "son"  is  used  with  a  following 
genitive  of  quality  to  indicate  some  characteristic 
of  the  person  or  persons  described.  In  the  Eng.  the 
word  "son"  is  usually  omitted  and  the  phrase  is  para- 
phrased as  in  2  S  3  34,  where  the  words  trd  "wicked 
men"  in  AV  mean  lit.  sons  or  children  of  wickedness. 
Two  examples  of  this  usage  may  be  cited:  the 
familiar  phrase  "sons  of  Belial"  in  the  OT  (Dt 
13  13  AV,  and  often),  where  the  meaning  is  simply 
base  or  worthless  fellows  (cf  Nu  24  17,  m  "children 
of  Sheth"  [Expos  T,  XIII,  64/>]);  and  in  the  NT  the 
phrase  "sons  of  thunder,"  which  is  given  in  Mk  3  17 
as  the  explanation  of  the  epithet  "Boanerges." 
This  use  is  common  in  the  NT,  as  the  phrases  "chil- 
dren of  the  kingdom,"  "children  of  light,"  etc, 
indicate,  the  general  meaning  being  that  the  noun 
in  the  genitive  following  the  word  children  indicates 
some  quality  of  the  persons  under  consideration. 
The  special  phrases  "Son  of  man"  and  "Son  of  God" 
are  considered  in  separate  articles.  See  also 
RELATIONSHIPS,  FAMILY. 

WALTER  R.  BETTEHIDGE 

SON-IN-LAW.     See  RELATIONSHIPS,  FAMILY. 

SON  OF  GOD,  THE  (6  vlos  6«ov,  ho  huios  theou): 

1.  Use  of  Title  in  the  Synoptists 

l>.  Meanings  in  the  OT 

;;.  Sense  us  Applied  to  Jesus 

4.  Physical  Reason 

,">.  Alleged  Equivalence  to  " Messiah "  (Baptism,  Temp- 
tation, etc) — Personal  Sense  Implied 
0    Higher  I'se  by  .Jesus  Himself 
7    The  "Son"  in  Mt  11   27 

5.  In  Mk  13  :« 

<>.   In  Mt  28   ls-20 

10    \postolic  Doctrine:    Deity  Affirmed 
11.  The  Fourth  Gospel:    Deity,  Preexistence.  etc 
LITERATURE 

While  the  title  "the  Son  of  man"  is  always,  except 

once,  applied  by  Jesus  to  Himself,  "the  Son  of  God" 

is  never  applied  by  Jesus  to  Himself 

1.  Use  of       in  the  Synoptists.     When,  however,  it 
Title  in  the    is  applied  to  Him  by  others,  He  accepts 
Synoptists      it  in  such  a  way  as  to  assert  His  claim 

to  it.  Now  and  then  He  Himself 
employs  the  abbreviated  form,  "the  Son/'  with  the 
same  intention;  and  He  often  speaks  of  God  as  "the 
Father"  or  "my  Father"  or  "my  Father  who  is  in 
heaven"  in  such  a  manner  as  to  betray  the  con- 
sciousness that  He  is  the  Son  of  God. 

While  to  the  common  mind  "the  Son  of  man"  is 
a  title  designating  the  human  side  of  Our  Lord's 

person,    "the  Son   of   God"   seems  as 

2.  Mean-      obviously  to  indicate  the  Divine  side, 
ings  in  But  scholarship  cannot  take  this  for 
the  OT           granted;   and,  indeed,  it  requires  only 

a  hasty  glance  at  the  facts  to  bring  this 
home  even  to  the  general  reader,  because  in  Scrip- 
ture the  title  is  bestowed  on  a  variety  of  persons  for 
a  variety  of  reasons.  First,  it  is  applied  to  angels, 
as  when  in  Job  2  1  it  is  said  that  "the  sons  of  God 
came  to  present  themselves  before  Jeh";  they  may 
be  so  called  because  they  are  the  creatures  of  God's 
hands  or  because,  as  spiritual  beings,  they  resemble 
God,  who  is  a  spirit.  Secondly,  in  Lk  3  38  it  is 
applied  to  the  first  man;  and  from  the  parable  of 
the  Prodigal  Son  it  may  be  argued  that  it  is  appli- 
cable to  all  men.  Thirdly,  it  is  applied  to  the  Heb 
nation,  as  when,  in  Ex  4^22,  Jeh  says  to  Pharaoh, 
"Israel  is  my  son,  my  first-born,"  the  reason  being 
that  Israel  was  the  object  of  Jeh's  special  love  and 


2827 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Someis 
Son  of  God 


gracious  choice.  Fourthly,  it  is  applied  to  the  kings 
of  Israel,  as  representatives  of  the  chosen  nation. 
Thus,  in  2  IS  7  14,  Jeh  says  of  Solomon,  "I  will  be 
his  father,  and  he  shall  be  my  son";  and,  in  Ps  2  7, 
the  coronation  of  a  king  is  announced  in  an  oracle 
from  heaven,  which  says,  "Thou  art  my  son;  this 
day  have  I  begotten  thee."  Finally,  in  the  NT,  the 
title  is  applied  to  all  saints,  as  in  .In  1  12,  "But  as 
many  as  received  him,  to  them  gave  he  the  right  to 
become  children  of  God,  even  to  them  that  believe 
on  his  name."  When  the  title  has  such  a  range  of 
application,  it  is  obvious  that  the  Divinity  of  Christ 
cannot  be  inferred  from  the  mere  fact  that  it  is 
applied  to  Him. 

It  is  natural  to  assume  that  its  use  in  applica- 
tion to  Jesus  is  derived  from  one  or  other  of  its  OT 
uses;    and  the  one  almost  universally 

3.  Sense        fixed  upon  by  modern  scholarship  as 
as  Applied     that  from  which  it  was  derived  is  the 
to  Jesus         fourth  mentioned  above— ^that  to  the 

Jewish  kings.  Indeed,  it  is  frequently 
asserted  that,  in  the  Jewish  lit.  between  the  OT 
and  the  NT,  it  is  found  already  coined  as  a  title 
for  the  Messianic  king;  but  the  instances  quoted 
by  Dalman  and  others  in  proof  of  this  are  far  from 
satisfactory. 

When  we  come  to  examine  its  use  in  the  NT 
as  applied  by  others  to   Jesus,   the  facts  are  far 

from  simple,  and  it  is  not  applied  in  a 

4.  Physical    uniform  sense.     In  Lk  1  35,  the  fol- 
Reason          lowing  reason  for  its  use  is  given,  "The 

Holy  Spirit  shall  come  upon  thee,  and 
the  power  of  the  Most  High  shall  overshadow  thee: 
wherefore  also  the  holy  thing  which  is  begotten  shall 
be  called  the  Son  of  God."  This  is  a  physical 
reason,  akin  to  that  on  account  of  which  the  angels 
or  the  first  man  received  the  title;  but  it  is  rather 
curious  that  this  point  of  view  does  not  seem  to  be 
adopted  elsewhere,  unless  it  be  in  the  exclamation 
of  the  centurion  at  the  foot  of  the  cross,  "Truly 
this  was  the  Son  of  God"  (Mt  27  54).  As  a  pagan 
this  soldier  might  be  thinking  of  Jesus  as  one  of 
those  heroes,  born  of  human  mothers  but  divine 
fathers,  of  whom  the  mythology  of  his  country  had 
so  much  to  tell  (cf  m) . 

(1)  Baptism,     Temptation. — It    has    been    con- 
tended,  not   without   plausibility,    that   for   Jesus 

Himself  the  source  of  the  title  may 

5.  Alleged     have  been  the  employment  of  it  in  the 
Equivalence  voice   from   heaven   at   His   Baptism, 
to  Messiah    "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
—Personal    am     well     pleased"     (Mt  3  17).     By 
Sense  these   words,    it    is    usually    assumed, 
Implied          He  was   designated   as  the   Messiah; 

but  in  the  adj.  "beloved,"  and  the 
words  "in  whom  I  am  well  pleased,"  there  is  some- 
thing personal,  beyond  the  merely  official  recogni- 
tion. The  same  may  be  said  of  the  voice  from 
heaven  in  the  scene  of  the  Transfiguration.  Milton, 
in  Paradise  Regained,  makes  Satan  become  aware 
of  the  voice  from  heaven  at  the  Baptism;  but  this 
is  also  implied  in  the  terms  with  which  he  ap- 
proached Him  in  the  Temptation  in  the  wilderness, 
"If  thou  art  the  Son  of  God"  (Mt  4  3,  etc);  and, 
if  this  was  the  sense  in  which  the  prince  of  devils 
made  use  of  the  phrase,  we  may  conclude  that  in 
the  mouths  of  the  demoniacs  who  hailed  Jesus  by 
the  same  title  it  must  have  had  the  same  meaning. 

(2)  At   Caesarea   Philippi. — When,  at  Caesarea 
Philippi,  Jesus  evoked  from  the  Twelve  their  great 
confession,  this  is  given  by  two  of  the  synoptists  in 
the  simple  form,  "Thou  art  the  Christ"  (Mk  8  29; 
Lk  9  20);  but  Mt  adds,  "the  Son  of  the  living  God" 
(Mt  16  16).     It    is    frequently     said    that     Heb 
parallelism  compels  us  to  regard  these  words  as  a 
mere  equivalent  for   "Messiah."     But   this  is  not 
the  nature  of  parallelism,  which  generally  includes 


in  the  second  of  the  parallel  terms  something  in 
excess  of  what  is  expressed  in  the  first ;  it  would  be 
quite  in  accordance  with  the  nature  of  parallelism 
if  the  second  term  supplied  the  reason  for  the  first. 
That  is  to  say,  Jesus  was  the  Messiah  because  He 
was  the  Son  of  God. 

(3)  Trial  before  Kanhcdrin. — There  is  another 
passage  where  it  is  frequently  contended  that 
"the  Christ"  and  "the  Son  of  God"  must  be  exactly 
parallel,  but  a  close  examination  suggests  the 
reverse.  In  the  account  of  the  ecclesiastical  trial 
in  the  Gospel  of  Lk,  He  is  charged,  "If  thou  art 
the  Christ,  tell  us";  and,  when  He  replies,  "If  I  tell 
you,  ye  will  not  believe:  and  if  I  ask  you,  ye  will 
not  answer.  But  from  henceforth  shall  the  Son  of 
man  be  seated  at  the  right  hand  of  the  power  of 
God,"  they  all  say,  "Art  thou  then  the  Son  of  God  ?" 
and,  when  He  replies  in  the  affirmative,  they 
require  no  further  witness  (Lk  22  67-71),  Matthew 
informing  us  that  the  high  priest  hereupon  rent  his 
garments,  and  they  all  agreed  that  He  had  spoken 
blasphemy  and  was  worthy  of  death  (Mt  26  65  f). 
The  usual  assumption  is  that  the  second  question, 
"Art  thou  ....  the  Son  of  God?"  implies  no  more 
than  the  first,  'Art  thou  the  Christ?';  but  is  not  the 
scene  much  more  intelligible  if  the  boldness  of  His 
answer  to  the  first  question  suggested  that  He  was 
making  a  still  higher  claim  than  to  be  the  Christ, 
and  that  their  second  question  applied  to  this?  It 
was  when  Jesus  affirmed  this  also  that  their  angry 
astonishment  knew  no  bounds,  and  their  sentence 
was  immediate  and  capital.  It  may  be  questioned 
whether  it  was  blasphemy  merely  to  claim  to  be 
the  Messiah;  but  it  was  rank  and  undeniable 
blasphemy  to  claim  to  be  the  Son  of  God.  This 
recalls  the  statement  in  Jn  5  18,  "The  Jews 
sought  the  more  to  kill  him,  because  he  not  only 
brake  the  sabbath,  but  also  called  God  his  own 
Father,  making  himself  equal  with  God";  to  which 
may  be  added  (Jn  10  33),  "The  Jews  answered 
him,  For  a  good  work  we  stone  thee  not,  but  for 
blasphemy;  and  because  that  thou,  being  a  man, 
makest  thyself  God." 

Naturally  it  is  with  the  words  of  Jesus  Himself 

on  this  subject  that  we  are  most  concerned.     He 

speaks  of  God  as  His  Father,  and  to  the 

6.  Higher      disciples  He  speaks  of  God  as  their 
Use  by  Father;   but  He  never  speaks  to  them 
Jesus  Him-  of  God  as  their  common  Father:   what 
self                 He   says    is,    "My    Father    and    your 

Father"  (Jn  20  17).  H.  J.  Holtzmann 
and  others  have  attempted  to  make  light  of  this, 
and  even  to  speak  of  the  opening  words  of  the 
Lord's  Prayer,  "Our  Father  who  art  in  heaven," 
as  if  Jesus  might  have  uttered  them  in  company 
with  the  disciples;  but  the  distinction  is  a  vital  one, 
and  we  do  not  agree  with  those  who  can  believe 
that  Jesus  could  have  uttered,  for  Himself  along 
with  others,  the  whole  of  the  Lord's  Prayer,  includ- 
ing the  petition,  "Forgive  us  our  debts,  as  we  also 
have  forgiven  our  debtors." 

Of  the  passages  in  the  Synoptists  where  Jesus 

speaks  about  God  as  "the  Father"  and  Himself  as 

"the     Son,"     a     peculiar     solemnity 

7.  The  attaches   to    Mt  11  27          Lk  10  22, 
"Son"  in        "All  things  have  been  delivered  unto 
Mt  11:27      me  of  my  Father:  and  no  one  knoweth 

the  Son,  save  the  Father;  neither  doth 
any  know  the  Father,  save  the  Son,  and  he  to  whom- 
soever the  Son  willeth  to  reveal  him."  There  is  a 
Johannine  flavor  in  these  words,  and  they  reveal 
an  intimacy  of  the  Son  with  the  Father,  as  well  as  a 
power  over  all  things,  which  could  not  have  been 
conferred  by  mere  official  appointment,  unless  there 
had  been  in  the  background  a  natural  position  war- 
ranting the  official  standing.  Not  infrequently  has 
the  word  "Messianic"  been  allowed  by  scholars  to 


Son  of  God 
Son  of  Man 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


282X 


blind  them  u>  the  most  obvious  facts.  The  con- 
ferring of  an  office  on  a  mere  man  could  not  enable 
him  to  do  things  beyond  the  reach  of  human  powers; 
yet  it  is  frequently  assumed  that,  if  only  Jesus  was 
Messiah,  He  was  able  for  anything,  even  when  the 
thing  in  question  is  something  for  which  a  mere  man 
is  wholly  incompetent. 

There  is  a  saying  of  Jesus  (Mk  13  32)  about  His 

own  Sonship  which  may  seem  to  refute  the  church 

doctrine  on  the  subject,   as  in  it   He 

8.  The  confesses  ignorance  of  the  date  of  His 
"Son"  in        Second  Coming:   "Of  that  day  or  that 
Mkl3:32     hour    knoweth  no  one,   not  even  the 

angels  in  heaven,  neither  the  Son,  but, 
the  Father."  Yet,  while  there  is  much  in  this 
passage  fitted  to  produce  sane  and  sober  views  as 
to  the  real  manhood  of  Jesus,  there  are  few  sayings 
of  His  that  betray  a  stronger  consciousness  of  His 
being  more  than  man.  Four  planes  of  being  and 
of  knowledge  are  specified — that  of  men,  that  of 
angels,  that  of  Himself,  and  that  of  God.  Evi- 
dently the  Son  is  above  not  only  men  but  angels, 
and,  if  it  is  confessed  that  He  is  ignorant  of  anything, 
this  is  mentioned  as  a  matter  of  surprise. 

The  conclusion  would  seem    to  be  that  He  is  a 
being  intermediate  between  the  angels  and  God; 

but   this   impression    is    corrected    by 

9.  The  the  greatest  of  all  the  sayings  in  which 
"Son"  in        He  calls  Himself  the  Son  (Mt  28  1S- 
Mt  28:  20),  "All  authority  hath  been  given  un- 
18-20              to  me  in  heaven  and  on  earth.     Go  ye 

therefore,  and  make  disciples  of  all  the 
nations,  baptizing  them  into  the  name  of  the  Father 
and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  J  loly  Spirit :  teaching  them 
to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  commanded 
you:  and  lo,  I  am  with  you  always,  even  unto  the 
end  of  the  world."  Here  the  Son  is  named  along 
with  the  Father  and  the  Holy  Spirit  in  a  way  sug- 
gesting the  equality  of  all  three,  an  act  of  worship 
being  directed  to  them  jointly.  By  those  who  dis- 
believe in  the  Deity  of  Christ,  the  most  strenuous 
attempts  have  been  made  to  get  rid  of  this  passage, 
and  in  certain  quarters  it  is  taken  for  granted  that 
it  must  have  been  an  addition  to  the  text  of  this 
Gospel.  But  for  this  there  is  no  ground  whatever; 
the  passage  is  the  climax  of  the  Gospel  in  which  it 
occurs,  in  the  same  way  as  the  confession  of  Thomas 
is  the  climax  of  the  Gospel  of  Jn;  and  to  remove  it 
would  be  an  intolerable  mutilation.  Of  course  to 
those  who  disbelieve  in  the  bodily  resurrection  of 
Our  Lord,  this  has  no  more  substance  than  the  other 
details  of  the  Forty  Days;  but  to  those  who  believe 
in  His  risen  glory  the  words  appear  to  suit  the 
circumstances,  their  greatness  being  congruous  with 
the  entire  representation  of  the  NT. 

Indeed,  it  is  the  Son  of  God,  as  He  appears  in  this 

final  scene  in  the  First  Gospel,  who  dominates  the 

rest  of  the  NT.     Thus,  in  Acts  9  20, 

10.  Apostol-  the  beginning  of  Paul's  testimony  as 
ic  Doctrine:  a  Christian  is  given  in  these  words, 
Deity  "And  straightway  in  the  synagogues  he 
Affirmed        proclaimed  Jesus,  that  he  is  the  Son  of 

God";  and  what  this  meant  to  Paul  | 
may  be  gathered  from  his  own  statement  in  the 
opening  of  Rom,  "Paul,  a  servant  of  Jesus  Christ, 
called  to  be  an  apostle,  separated  unto  the  gospel  of 
God,  which  he  promised  afore  through  his  prophets 
in  the  holy  scriptures,  concerning  his  Son,  who 
was  born  of  the  seed  of  David  according  to  the 
flesh,  who  was  declared  to  be  the  Son  of  God  with 
power,  according  to  the  spirit  of  holiness,  by  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead;  even  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord"  (Rom  1  1-4).  In  He  the  equality  of  the 
Son  with  the  Father  is  the  theme  throughout  the 
entire  book;  and  in  Rev  2  18,  "the  Son  of  God, 
who  hath  his  eyes  like  a  flame  of  fire,"  speaks  from 
the  right  hand  of  power  to  the  church. 


On  this  subject  there  was  no  division  of  opinion 
in  the  apostolic  church.  On  many  other  questions 
the  followers  of  Jesus  were  divided;  but  on  this  one 
they  were  unanimous.  For  this  the  authority  of 
Paul  is  often  assumed  to  be  responsible;  but  there 
was  a  prior  and  higher  authority.  This  was  the 
self-testimony  of  Jesus  in  the  Gospel  of  Jn.  Though 
this  may  not  have  been  put  in  literary  form  till  all 
the  other  books  of  the  NT  had  been  completed, 
it  was  active  and  influent  ial  in  the  church  all  the 
time,  affecting  Paul  and  the  other  NT  writers. 

There  is  no  real  disharmony  between  the  expres- 
sion of  Our  Lord's  self-consciousness  in  the  Synop- 
tists  and  that  in  Jn;  only  in  the  latter 
11.  The  it  is  far  ampler  and  more  distinct. 
Fourth  Gos-  Here  Jesus  is  not  only  called  "the  Son 
pel:  Deity,  of  God"  by  others,  but  applies  the 
Preexist-  title  to  Himself  in  its  full  shape,  as 
ence,  etc  well  as  in  the  abbreviated  form  of  "the 
Son."  He  further  calls  Himself  the 
"only  begotten  Son  of  God"  (3  1(3. IS),  that  is  to 
say,  He  is  Son  in  a  sense  in  which  no  others  can  claim 
the  title.  This  seems  expressly  to  contradict  the 
statement,  so  often  made,  that  He  makes  others 
sons  of  God  in  the  same  sense  as  Himself,  or  that  His 
Sonship  is  ethical,  not  metaphysical.  No  doubt 
it  is  ethical — that  is  to  say,  He  is  like  the  Father  in 
feeling,  mind  and  will — but  it  does  not  follow  that  it 
is  not  at  the  same  time  metaphysical.  In  fact, 
the  perfection  of  ethical  unity  depends  upon  that 
which  is  metaphysical.  Between  a  dog  and  a  man 
there  may  be  deep  sympathy,  yet  it  is  limited  by 
the  difference  of  their  natures;  whereas  between  a 
woman  and  a  man  there  is  perfect  sympathy,  be- 
cause they  are  identical  in  nature. 

Another  feature  of  Sonship  in  the  Fourth  Gospel 
is  preexist  ence,  though,  strange  to  say,  this  is  more 
than  once  connected  with  the  title  "Son  of  mean." 
But  the  strongest  and  most  frequent  suggestions 
as  to  what  is  implied  in  Sonship  are  to  be  found  in 
the  deeds  attributed  to  the  Son;  for  these  are  far 
beyond  the  competence  of  any  mere  man.  Thus, 
lie  executes  judgment  (5  22);  He  has  life  in  Him- 
self and  quickeneth  whom  He  will  (5  26.21);  He 
gives  eternal  life  (10  10),  and  it  is  the  will  of  the 
Father  that  all  men  should  honor  the  Son,  even  as 
they  do  (lie  Father  (5  23).  Nevertheless,  the  Son 
does  nothing  of  Himself,  but  only  what  He  hath 
seen  the  Father  do  (5  10);  and  only  that  which  He 
hath  heard  of  the  Father  does  He  speak  (14  10). 
In  short,  God  is  not  only  His  Father,  but  His  God 
(20  17).  To  statements  such  as  these  a  merely 
official  Sonship  is  not  adequate;  the  relation  must  be 
ethical  and  metaphysical  as  well;  and  to  a  perfect 
Sonship  all  three  elements  are  essential. 

LITERATURE. — See  the  books  on  the  Theology  of  the 
XT  by  Weiss,  Beyschlag,  Holtzmann,  Fcinc,  Schhutcr, 
Weinel,  Bovon,  Stevens,  Sheldon;  and  on  the  Teaching 
of  Jesus  by  Bruce,  Wendt,  Dalman;  Gore,  The  Incarna- 
tion of  the  Son  of  God,  Hampton  Lectures,  1891,  and 
Dissertations  on  Subjects  Connected  with  the  Incarnation; 
Robert-son,  Teaching  of  Jesus  concerning  (lod  the  Fattier; 
full  bibliography  in  Stalker,  Christ's  Teaching  concerning 
Himself. 

JAMES  STALKER 

SON  OF  MAN,  THE  (6  vios  TOV  dvepuiirov,  ho 
huios  tou  anthrdpoii)'. 

1.  Use  in  NT:  Self-Designation  of  Jesus 

2.  Questions  as  to  Meaning 
I.     SOURCE   OF  THE  TITLE 

1.  The  Phrase  in  the  OT — Pss,  Ezk.  Dnl 

2.  "Son  of  Man"  in  Dnl  7 — XT  Allusions 

3.  Expressive  of  Messianic  Idea 

4.  Post-canonical  Literature:     Book  of  En 
II.     WHY  JESUS  MADE  USE   OF  THE  TITLE 

1.  Consciousness  of  Being  the  Messiah 

2.  Half  Concealed,  Yet  Half  Revealed  His  Secret 

3.  Expressive  of  Identification  with  Men  in  Sym- 
pathy, Fortunes  and  Destiny 

4.  Speculations    (Lietzmann,    Wcllhausen,    etc)    on 
Aramaic  Meaning:   These  Rejected  (Dalman,  etc) 

LITERATURE 


2829 


TlIM  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Son  of  God 
Son  of  Man 


This  is  the  favorite  self-designation  of  Jesus^m 

the  Gospels.     In  Mt  it  occurs  over  30  t,  in  Mk  lf>  t, 

in  Lk  25  t,  and  in  Jn  a  dozen  times. 

1.  Use  in       It   is  always  in  the  mouth   of  Jesus 
the  NT:         Himself   that   it  occurs,   except   once, 
Self-Desig-  when    the    bystanders    ask    what    He 
nation  of        means  by  the  title  (Jn  12  34).     Out- 
Jesus  side  the  Gospels,   it  occurs  only  once 

in  Acts,  in  Stephen's  speech   (Acts  7 
.">()),  and  twice  in  the  Book  of  Rev  (1  13;   14  14). 

At  first  sight  it  appears  so  apt  a  term  for  the 
human  element  in  Our  Lord's  person,  the  Divine 

element    being    similarly    denoted    by 

2.  Ques-        "the  Son  of  God,"  that  this  was  sup- 
tions  as  to     posed  to  be  its  meaning,  as  it  still  is 
Meaning        by  the  common  man  at  the  present 

day.  As  long  as  it  was  assumed  that 
the  meaning  could  be  elicited  by  merely  looking 
at  the  words  as  they  stand  and  guessing  what  they 
must  signify,  this  was  substantially  the  view  of  all, 
although  this  common  conception  went  in  two  direc- 
tions— some  noting  esp.  the  loftier  and  more  ideal 
elements  in  the  conception,  while  others  emphasized 
what  was  lowly  and  painful  in  the  human  lot ;  and 
both  could  appeal  to  texts  in  support  of  their  view. 
Thus,  the  view  "that  Christ  by  this  phrase  repre- 
sented Himself  as  the  head,  the  type,  the  ideal  of 
the  race"  (Stanton,  The  Jen-ixh  and  the  Christian 
Messiah'),  could  appeal  to  such  a  saving  as,  "The 
Son  of  man  is  Lord  even  of  the  sabbath"  (Mk  2  28); 
while  the  humbler  view  could  quote  such  a  saying  as, 
"The  foxes  have  holes,  and  the  birds  of  the  heaven 
have  nests;  but  the  Son  of  man  hath  not  where  to 
lay  his  head"  (Mt  8  20). 

^The  more  scientific  investigation  of  the  phrase 
began,  however,  when  it  was  inquired,  first,  what 
the  source  was  from  which  Jesus  derived  this  title, 
and,  secondly,  why  He  made  use  of  it. 

/.   Source  of  the  Title.— -That  the  phrase  was  not 

one  of  Jesus'  own  invention  is  manifest,  because  it 

occurs    often    in    the    OT.     Thus,    in 

1.  The  Ps  8  4  it  is  used  as  an  equivalent  for 

Phrase  in       "man"  in  the  parallel  lines, 

the  OT  "What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful 

(Pss.  Ezk,  of  him? 

Dnl)  And    the    son    of    man,    that  thou 

visitest  him  ?" 

This  passage  has  sometimes  been  regarded  as  the 
source  whence  Jesus  borrowed  the  title;  and  for  this 
a  good  deal  might  be  said,  the  ps  being  an  incom- 
parable exposition  both  of  the  lowliness  and  the 
loftiness  of  human  nature.  But  there  is  another 
passage  in  the  Pss  from  which  it  is  far  from  incredible 
that  it  may  have  been  derived:  in  Ps  80  17  occur 
the  words, 

"Let  thy  hand  be  upon  the  man  of  thy  right  hand, 
Upon  the  son  of  man  whom  thou  madest  strong  for 
thyself." 

This  is  an  appeal,  in  an  age  of  national  decline,  for 
the  raising  up  of  a  hero  to  redeem  Israel;  and  it 
might  well  have  kindled  the  spark  of  Messianic 
consciousness  in  the  heart  of  the  youthful  Jesus. 

There  is  a  book  of  the  OT  in  which  the  phrase 
"the  son  of  man"  occurs  no  fewer  than  90  t.  This 
is  the  Book  of  Ezk,  where  it  is  always  applied  to 
the  prophet  himself  and  designates  his  prophetic 
mission.  In  the  words  of  Nosgcn  (Christ us  der  Men- 
schcn-  und  Gottessohri):  "It  expresses  the  contrast 
between  what  Ezekiel  is  in  himself  and  what  God 
will  make  out  of  him,  and  to  make  his  mission  appear 
to  him  not  as  his  own,  but  as  the  work  of  God,  and 
thus  to  lift  him  up,  whenever  the  flesh  threatens 
to  faint  and  fail."  Thus  there  was  one  before 
Jesus  of  Nazareth  who  bore  the  title,  at  least  in 
certain  moments  of  his  life;  and,  after  Ezekiel, 
there  arose  another  Heb  prophet  who  has  put  on 
record  that  he  was  addressed  from  the  same  high 


quarter  in  the  same  terms;  for,  in  Did  8  17,  it  is 
written,  "So  he  came  near  where  I  stood;  and  when 
he  came,  1  was  affrighted,  and  fell  upon  my  face: 
but  lie  said  unto  me,  Understand,  O  son  of  man"- 
words  then  following  intended  to  raise  the  spirit  of 
the  trembling  servant  of  ( lod.  By  Weizsacker  and 
others  the  suggestion  has  been  made  that  Jesus  may 
have  borrowed  the  term  from  E/k  and  Dnl  to 
express  His  consciousness  of  belonging  to  the  same 
prophetic  line. 

There  is,  however,  in  the  same  Book  of  Dnl 
another  occurrence  of  the  phrase,  in  a  totally 
different  sense,  to  which  the  attention 
2.  "Son  of  of  science  is  more  and  more  being 
Man"  in  drawn.  In  7  3  IT,  in  one  of  the 
Dnl  7 — NT  apocalyptic  visions  common  to  this 
Allusions  prophet,  four  beasts  are  seen  coming 
out  of  the  sea — the  first  a  lion  with 
eagle's  wings,  the  second  a  bear,  the  third  a  four- 
headed  leopard,  and  the  fourth  a  terrible  monster 
with  ten  heads.  These  beasts  bear  rule  over  the 
earth;  but  at  last  the  kingdom  is  taken  away 
from  them  and  given  to  a  fifth  ruler,  who  is  thus 
described,  "I  saw  in  the  night-visions,  and,  behold, 
there  came  with  the  clouds  of  heaven  one  like  unto 
a  son  of  man,  and  IK;  came  even  to  the  ancient  of 
days,  and  they  brought  him  near  before  him.  And 
there  was  given  him  dominion,  and  glory,  and  a 
kingdom,  that  all  the  peoples,  nat  ions,  and  languages 
should  serve  him:  his  dominion  is  an  everlasting 
dominion,  which  shall  not  pass  away,  and  his  king- 
dom that  which  shall  not  be  destroyed"  (vs  13.14). 
Compare  with  these  words  from  Dnl  the  words  of 
Jesus  to  the  high  priest  during  His  trial,  "Hence- 
forth ye  shall  see  the  Son  of  man  sitting  at  the  right 
hand  of  Power,  and  coining  on  the  clouds  of  heaven" 
(Mt  26  61),  and  the  echo  of  the  OT  words  cannot 
be  mistaken.  Equally  distinct  is  it  in  the  great 
discourse  in  Mt  24  30,  "Then  shall  appear  the  sign 
of  the  Son  of  man  in  heaven:  and  then  shall  all  the 
tribes  of  the  earth  mourn,  and  they  shall  see  the  Son 
of  man  coming  on  the  clouds  of  heaven  with  power 
and  great  glory." 

The  use  of  this  self-designation  by  Jesus  is  esp. 
frequent  and  striking  in  passages  referring  to  His 
future  coming  to  judgment,  in  which 
there  is  necessarily  a  certain  resem- 
blance to  the  apocalyptic  scene  in 
Dnl.  In  such  utterances  the  Messianic 
consciousness  of  Jesus  is  most  emphati- 
cally expressed;  and  the  passage  in 
Dnl  is  also  obviously  Messianic.  In  another  con- 
siderable series  of  passages  in  which  this  phrase  is 
used  by  Jesus,  the  references  are  to  His  sufferings 
and  death;  but  the  assumption  which  explains  these 
also  most  easily  is  that  they  are  Messianic  too; 
Jesus  is  speaking  of  the  fortunes  to  which  He  must 
submit  on  account  of  His  vocation.  Even  the  more 
dignified  passages,  expressive  of  ideality,  are  best 
explained  in  the  same  way.  In  short,  every  pas- 
sage where  the  phrase  occurs  is  best  understood  from 
this  point  of  view,  whereas,  from  any  other  point  of 
view,  not  a  few  appear  awkward  and  out  of  place. 
How  little,  for  example,  does  the  idea  that  the  phrase 
is  expressive  of  lowliness  or  of  brotherhood  with 
suffering  humanity  accord  with  the  opening  of  the 
judgment-scene  in  Mt  25  31,  "But  when  the  Son 
of  man  shall  come  in  his  glory,  and  all  the  angels 
with  him,  then  shall  he  sit  on  the  throne  of  his 
glory"! 

The  son  of  man,  or  rather  "one  like  unto  a  son 
of  man"  mentioned  in  Dnl,  is  primarily  the  Heb 
people,  as  is  expressly  noted  in  the  prophecy 
itself;  but  Jesus  must  have  looked  upon  Himself 
as  the  representative  of  the  people  of  God,  in  the 
same  way  as,  in  the  OT  generally,  the  reigning 
sovereign  was  regarded  as  the  representative  of 


3.  Expres- 
sive of 
Messianic 
Idea 


Son  of  Man 
Song  of  Songs 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2830 


the  nation.  But  the  question  has  been  raised 
whether  this  transference  of  the  title  from  a  col- 
lective body  to  an  individual  may  have 
4.  Post-  been  mediated  for  Him  through  post- 
canonical  canonical  religious  literature  or  the 
Literature:  prevalence  among  the  people  of  ideas 
Book  of  En  generated  through  this  literature.  In 
the  Book  of  En  there  occur  numerous 
references  to  the  son  of  man,  which  bear  a  remarkable 
resemblance  to  some  of  the  sayings  of  Jesus.  The 
date  usually  assigned  to  this  production  is  some 
200  years  BC;  and,  if  these  passages  in  it  actually 
existed  as  early  as  this,  the  book  would  almost  re- 
quire to  be  included  in  the  canonical  Scriptures, 
though  for  other  reasons  it  is  far  from  worthy  of  any 
such  honor.  The  whole  structure  of  the  Book  of 
En  is  so  loose  and  confused  that  it  must  always 
have  invited  interpolation;  and  interpolations  in 
it  are  recognized  as  numerous.  The  probability, 
therefore,  is  that  the  passages  referring  to  the  son  of 
man  are  of  later  date  and  of  Christian  origin. 

//.  Why  Jesus  Made  Use  of  the  Title.— The, 
conclusion  that  this  title  expresses,  not  the  personal 
qualities  of  Jesus  as  a  man,  but  His  functions  as 
Messiah,  may  be  disappointing;  but  there  is  a  way 
of  recovering  what  seems  to  have  been  lost ;  because 
we  must  now  inquire  for  what  reasons  He  made  use 
of  this  term. 

The   first    reason,    of    course,    is,   that    in  Dnl  it 
expressed   Messiahship,    and   that    Jesus  was   con- 
scious    of     being     the     Messiah.     In 

1.  Con-          the  OT  He  was  wont  all  His  days  to 
sciousness     read    His    own    history.     He    ranged 
of  Being         over  all  the  sacred  books  and  found 
the  Mes-       in  them  references  to  His  own  person 
siah  and    work.     With    divinatory    glance 

He  pierced  into  the  secrets  of  Scrip- 
ture and  brought  forth  from  the  least  as  well  as  the 
best-known  portions  of  the  ancient  oracles  meanings 
which  are  now  palpable  to  all  readers  of  the  Bible, 
but  which  Ho  was  the  first  to  discover.  From  the 
passage  in  Dnl,  or  from  some  other  passage  of  the 
OT  in  which  the  phrase  "the  son  of  man"  occurs, 
a  hint  flashed  out  upon  Him,  as  He  read  or  heard; 
and  the  suggestion  grew  in  His  brooding  mind, 
until  it  rounded  itself  into  the  fit  and  satisfying 
expression  for  one  side  of  His  self-consciousness. 

Another  reason  why  He  fixed  upon  this  as  His 

favorite  self-designation   may   have   been    that    it 

half  concealed  as  well  as  half  revealed 

2.  Half  His  secret.     Of  the  direct  names  for 
Concealed      the  Messiah  He  was  usually  shy,  no 
Yet  Half        doubt  chiefly   because  His  contempo- 
Revealed       raries  were  not  prepared  for  an  open 
His  Secret     declaration   of   Himself   in   this   char- 
acter; but  at  all  stages  of  His  ministry 

I  le  called  Himself  the  Son  of  man  without  hesitation. 
The  inference  seems  to  be,  that,  while  the  phrase 
expressed  much  to  Himself,  and  must  have  meant 
more  and  more  for  those  immediately  associated 
with  Him,  it  did  not  convey  a  Messianic  claim  to 
the  public  ear.  With  this  accords  well  the  per- 
plexity once  manifested  by  those  listening  to  Him, 
when  they  asked,  "Who  is  this  Son  of  man?" 
(Jn  12  3-4);  as  it  also  explains  the  question  of 
Jesus  to  the  Twelve  at  Caesarea  Philippi,  "Who  do 
men  say  that  the  Son  of  man  is?"  or,  as  it  is  in  the 
margin,  "that  I  the  Son  of  man  am?"  (Mt  16  13). 
That  He  was  the  Son  of  man  did  not  evidently  mean 
for  all  that  He  claimed  to  be  the  Messiah. 

But  when  we  try  to  realize  for  what  reasons 
Jesus  may  have  picked  this  name  out  from  all 
which  presented  themselves  to  Him  in  His  inti- 
mate and  loving  survey  of  the  OT,  it  is  difficult  to 
resist  the  belief  that  a  third  and  the  principal 
reason  was  because  it  gave  expression  to  His  sense 
of  connection  with  all  men  in  sympathy,  for- 


tunes and  destiny.  He  felt  Himself  to  be  identified 
with  all  as  their  brother,  their  fellow-sufferer,  their 
representative  and  champion;  and,  in 
3.  Expres-  some  respects,  the  deepest  word  He 
sive  of  ever  spake  was,  "For  the  Son  of  man 

Identifica-  also  came  not  to  be  ministered  unto, 
tion  with  but  to  minister,  and  to  give  his  life  a 
Men  ransom  for  many"  (Mk  10  45  ||). 

In  1896,  Hans  Liotzmann,  a  young  Ger. 
scholar,  startled  the  learned  world  with  a  speculation 
on   the    "Son  of  man."      Making  the  assumption   that 
Aram,  was  the  language  spoken  by  Jesus, 
A     cnpri,io      ne  contended  that  Jesus  could  not   have 
ecuia-    appli,,d   to   Himself    the    Messianic    title, 
tions  on  because    there    is    nothing    corresponding 

Aramaic  with  it  in  Aramaic.  The  only  term 
Mpaninp-  approximating  to  it  is  barnaxh,  which 
'"»  means  something  very  vague,  like  "any- 
one" or  "everyman"  (in  the  sense  of  the 
old  morality  play  thus  entitled).  Many  supposed  Lietz- 
manii  to  be  arguing  that  Jesus  had  called  Himself  Anyone 
or  Everyman;  but  this  was  not  his  intention.  He  tried 
to  prove  that  the  Messianic  title  had  been  applied  to 
Jesus  in  Asia  Minor  in  the  first  half  of  the  2d  cent,  and 
that  the  Gospels  had  been  revised  with  the  effect  of 
substituting  it  for  the  first  personal  pronoun.  But 
he  failed  to  show  how  the  MSS  could  have  been  so 
universally  altered  as  to  leave  no  traces  of  this  operation, 
or  how,  if  the  text  of  the  NT  was  then  in  so  fluid  a  state 
as  to  admit  of  such  a  substitution,  the  phrase  should 
not  have  overflowed  into  other  books  besides  the  Gospels. 
Although  the  hypothesis  has  secured  wide  attention 
through  being  partially  adopted  by  \Vellhausen,  whose 
view  is  to  be  found  in  Shizzen  und  Vorarbeiten,  VI,  and 
at  p.  (Hi  of  his  Cumm.  on  .I/A-,  it  may  be  reckoned  among 
the  ghosts  which  appear  for  an  hour  on  the  stage  of 
learning,  attracting  attention  and  admiration,  but  have 
no  permanent  connection  with  the  world  of  reality. 
Dalman,  the  leading  authority  on  Aram.,  denies  the 
foundation  on  which  the  views  of  both  Lietzmann  and 
Wellhausen  rest,  and  holds  that,  had  the  Messianic 
title  existed,  the  Aram,  language  would  have  been  quite 
capable  of  expressing  it.  And  in  1911  Wellhausen  him- 
self explicitly  admitted  this  (Einlfitung  in  die.  drei  erxten 
Erani/t'lien-,  130). 

LITERATURE. — See  the  books  on  NT  Theology  by 
Weiss,  Beyschlag,  Holtzmann,  Feine,  Schlatter,  Weinel, 
Stevens,  Sheldon;  and  on  the  Teaching  of  Jesus  by 
Wendt.  Bruce,  Dalman;  Abbott,  The  N.<»  „/  .\f,m.  1910"; 
very  full  bibliography  in  Stalker,  The.  Teaching  of  Jesus 
concerning  Himself. 

JAMES  STALKER 

SONG  ("PtJ,  shir,  rrptt,  shlrah):  Besides  the 
great  collection  of  sacred  songs  contained  in  the 
Psalter,  as  well  as  the  lyric  outbursts,  marked  by 
strong  religious  feeling,  on  great  national  occasions, 
it  is  natural  to  believe,  and  we  have  evidence  to 
show,  that  the  Hebrews  possessed  a  large  number 
of  popular  songs  of  a  secular  kind.  Song  of  Songs 
(q.v.)  of  itself  proves  this.  Probably  the  very 
oldest  song  or  fragment  of  song  in  the  OT  is  that 
"To  the  well"  (Nu  21  17). 

W.  It.  Smith  (Religions  of  the  Semite*,  167)  regards 
this  invocation  of  the  waters  to  rise  as  in  its  origin 
hardly  a  mere  poetic  figure.  He  compares  what  Cazwini 
1,  189,  records  of  the  well  of  Ilabiitan:  "When  the 
water  failed,  a  feast  was  held  at  its  source  with  music 
and  dancing,  to  induce  it  to  flow  again."  If,  however, 
the  song  had  its  origin  in  an  early  form  of  religious  belief, 
it  must  have  been  secularized  later. 

But  it  is  in  the  headings  of  the  Pss  that  we  find 
t  he  most  numerous  traces  of  the  popular  songs  of  the 
Hebrews.  Here  there  are  a  number  of  words  and 
phrases  which  are  now  believed  to  be  the  names  or 
initial  words  of  such  lyrics.  In  AV  they  are 
prefaced  with  the  prep,  "on,"  in  RV  with  "set  to," 
i.e.  "to  the  tune  of."  We  give  a  list:  (1)  Aijeleth 
Xhahar  AV,  RV  Aijeleth  hash-shahar,  'aijyelcth 
ha-shahar.  The  title  means  (RVm)  "The  hind  of 
the  morning,"  but  whether  the  original  song  so 
named  was  a  hunting  song  or  a  morning  serenade  it 
is  useless  to  conjecture.  SeeHixDOFTHE  MORNING. 
(2)  Al-taschith  (AV),  Al-tashheth  (RV),  'al-tashheth, 
i.e.  "Destroy  not,"  Pss  57-59,  75,  is  apparently 
quoted  in  Isa  65  8,  and  in  that  case  must  refer  to  a 
vintage  song.  (3)  Jonah  clem  rehokim  or  Yonath- 
'elem  rehokim  (Ps  56),  RVm  "The  silent  dove  of 
them  that  are  afar  off,"  or — with  a  slightly  different 


2831 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


reading  —  "The  dove  of  (he  distant  terebinths." 
(4)  Mnhnlnth  (Ps  53)  ;ind  Mnhdlaih  I'-'annolh  (Ps 
88).  Mtthnldtk  may  mean  "sickness,"  and  l)e  the 
first  word  of  ;i  SOUK.  It  might  mean,  on  the  other 
hand,  a  minor  mode  or  rhythm.  It  has  also  been 
held  to  designate  a  musical  instrument.  (5)  M  lith- 
lahhcn  (Ps  9)  has  given  rise  to  many  conjectures. 
Lit.  it  may  mean  "Die  for  the  son,"  or  "Death  of 
the  son."  An  ancient  tradition  referred  the  words 
to  Goliath  (death  at  the  hand  of  the  son  [?]),and 
they  have  been  applied  to  the  fate  of  Absalom. 
Such  guesses  need  only  be  quoted  to  show  their 
worthlessness.  (0)  Lastly,  we  have  Shoshannlm= 
"Lilies"  (Pss  45,  69),  Shushan  *Edhuth  =  "The  lily 
of  testimony"  (Ps  60);  and  Shoshannlm  *Edhulh  — 
"Lilies,  a  testimony"  (Ps  80),  probably  to  be 
explained  like  the  others. 

The  music  to  which  these  songs  were  sung  is 
irretrievably  lost,  but  it  was,  no  doubt,  very  similar 
in  character  to  that  of  the  Arabs  at  the  present  day. 
While  the  music  of  the  temple  was  probably  much 
more  elaborate,  and  of  wider  range,  both  in  notes 
and  expression  of  feeling,  the  popular  song  was 
almost  certainly  limited  in  compass  to  a  very  few 
notes  repeated  over  and  over  in  long  recitations  or 
ballads.  This  is  characteristic  of  the  performances 
of  Arab  minstrels  of  today.  The  melodies  are 
plaintive,  in  spite  of  the  majority  of  them  being 
in  major  keys,  owing  to  the  7th  being  flattened, 
as  in  genuine  Scots  music.  Arab  music,  further, 
is  marked  by  great  variety  and  emphasis  of  rhythm, 
the  various  kinds  of  which  have  special  names. 
See  SPIRITUAL  SONGS.  JAMES  MILLAR 


Son  of  Man 
Song  of  Songs 


SONG  OF  SONGS^  (D">T®n  "™  ,  shir  ha- 
shlrim;  LXX  "Ao-pia,  Asma;  X  A  C,  "Ao-fia  do-(j.d- 
TCDV,  Asma  asmdlon;  Vulg  Cnnticnm  Canticorutn): 

I.  OANONICITY 

II.  TEXT 

III.  AUTHORSHIP   AND    DATE 

IV.  HISTORY   OF   INTERPRETATION 

1.  The  Allegorical  Interpretation 

2.  The  Typical  Interpretation 

3.  The  Literal  Interpretation 

V.    CLOSING   HINTS   AND   SUGGESTIONS 
LITERATURE 

The  full  title  in  Heb  is  "The  Song  of  Songs,  which 
is  Solomon's."  The  book  is  called  by  some  Can- 
ticles, and  by  others  Solomon's  Song.  The  Heb 
title  implies  that  it  is  the  choicest  of  all  son^s,  in 
keeping  with  the  dictum  of  R.  'Akiba  (90-135  AD) 
that  "the  entire  world,  from  the  beginning  until 
now,  does  not  outweigh  the  day  in  which  Canticles 
was  given  to  Israel." 

/.  Canonicity.  —  Early  Jewish  and  Christian 
writers  are  silent  as  to  the  Song  of  Songs.  No  use  is 
made  of  it  by  Philo.  There  is  no  quotation  from  it 
in  the  NT,  nor  is  there  any  clear  allusion  to  it  on  the 
part  of  Our  Lord  or  the  apostles.  The  earliest  dis- 
tinct references  to  the  Song  of  Songs  are  found  in 
Jewish  writings  of  the  1st  and  2d  cents.  AD  (4  Esd 
5  24.26;  7  26;  TtSamth  4  8).  The  question  of 
the  canonicity  of  the  Song  was  debated  as  late  as 
the  Synod  of  Jamnia  (c  90  AD),  when  it  was  decided 
that  Canticles  was  rightly  reckoned  to  "defile  the 
hands,"  i.e.  was  an  inspired  book.  It  should  be 
borne  in  mind  that  the  Song  of  Songs  was  already 
esteemed  by  the  Jews  as  a  sacred  book,  though  prior 
to  the  Synod  of  Jamnia  there  was  probably  a  goodly 
number  of  Jewish  teachers  who  did  not  accept  it  as 
canonical.  Selections  from  Canticles  were  sung  at 
certain  festivals  in  the  temple  at  Jerus,  prior  to 
its  destruction  by  Titus  in  70  AD  (Tcf&nlth  4  8). 
The  Mish  pronounces  an  anathema  on  all  who 
treat  Canticles  as  a  secular  song  (Sanhedhrin,  lOla). 
The  latest  date  for  the  composition  of  the  Song  of 
Songs,  according  to  critics  of  the  advanced  school, 
is  toward  the  close  of  the  3d  cent.  BC.  We  mav  be 


sure  that  it  was  included  in  the  K'thubhlm  before 
the  ministry  of  Our  Lord,  and  so  was  for  Him  a 
part  of  the  Scriptures. 

//.  Text.  —  Most  scholars  regard  the  text  of 
Canticles  as  comparatively  free  from  corrupt  ion. 
Griitz,  Bickell,  Budde  and  Chcyne  have  suggested  a 
good  many  emendations  of  the  traditional  text, 
a  few  of  which  commend  themselves  as  probable 
corrections  of  a  faulty  text,  but  most  of  which 
are  mere  guesses  without  sufficient  confirmation 
from  either  external  or  internal  evidence.  For 
details  see  Budde's  able;  commentary,  and  articles 
by  Cheyne  in  JQR  and  Expos  T  for  1898-99  and 
in  the  Expos,  February,  1899. 

///.  Authorship  and  Date. — The  title  in  the 
Heb  text  ascribes  the  poem  to  Solomon.  That  this 
superscription  was  prefixed  by  an  editor  of  Canticles 
and  not  by  the  original  writer  is  evident  from  the 
fact  that  the  relative1  pronoun  employed  in  the  title 
is  different  from  that  employed  throughout  the 
poem.  The  beauty  and  power  of  the  book  seemed 
to  later  students  and  editors  to  make;  the  writing 
worthy  of  the  gifted  king,  whose  fame  as  a  composer 
of  both  proverbs  and  songs  was  handed  on  to  later 
times  (1  K  4  32).  Moreover,  the  name  of  Solo- 
mon is  prominent  in  the  Song  of  Songs  itself  (1  5; 
3  7.9.11;  8  11  f).  If  the  traditional  view  that 
Solomon  wooed  and  won  the  Shularnmite  be  true, 
the  Solomonic  authorship  may  even  yet  be  defended, 
though  the  linguistic  argument  for  a  later  date  is 
quite  strong. 

The  question  in  debate  among  recent  critics  is 
whether  the  Song  was  composed  in  North  Israel 
in  preexilic  days,  or  whether  it  is  post-exilic.  The 
author  is  at  home  in  He!).  His  vocabulary  is 
extensive,  and  the  movement  of  the  poem  is  grace- 
ful. There  is  no  suggest  ion  of  1  he  use  of  lexicon  and 
grammar  by  a  writer  living  in  the  period  of  the 
decadence  of  the  Heb  language.  The  author  is 
familiar  with  cities  and  mountains  all  over  Pal, 
esp.  in  the  northern  section.  He  speaks  of  the 
beauty  of  Tirzah,  the  capital  of  North  Israel  in 
the  10th  cent.  BC,  along  with  the  glory  of  Jerus, 
the  capital  of  Judah  (6  4).  The  recollection  of 
Solomon's  glory  and  pomp  seems  to  be  fresh  in  the 
mind  of  the  writer  and  his  contemporaries.  W.  R. 
Smith  regarded  Canticles  as  a  protest  against  the 
luxury  and  the  extensive  harem  of  Solomon.  True 
love  could  not  exist  in  such  an  environment.  The 
fidelity  of  the  Shulammite  to  her  shepherd  lover, 
notwithstanding  the  blandishments  of  the  wealthy 
and  gifted  king,  stands  as  a  rebuke  to  the  notion 
that  every  woman  has  her  price.  Driver  seems 
inclined  to  accept  a  preexilic  date,  though  the  argu- 
ments from  vocabulary  and  philology  cause  him 
to  waver  in  his  opinion  (LOT,  8th  ed,  450).  An 
increasing  number  of  critics  place  the  composition 
of  Canticles  in  the  post -exilic  period,  many  bringing 
it  down  into  the  Gr  period.  Among  scholars  who 
date  Canticles  in  the  3d  cent.  BC  we  may  name 
Gratz,  Kuenen,  Cornill,  Budde,  Kautzsch,  Marti- 
neau  and  Cheyne.  The  chief  argument  for  bringing 
the  Song  into  the  time  of  the  early  Ptolemies  is 
drawn  from  the  language  of  the  poern.  There  are 
many  Heb  words  that  are  employed  elsewhere  only 
in  later  books  of  the  OT;  the  word  pardes  (4  13) 
is  a  Pers  loan-word  for  "park";  the  word  for  "palan- 
quin" may  be  Indian,  or  possibly  Gr.  Moreover, 
the  form  of  the  relative  pronoun  is  uniformly  that 
which  is  found  in  some  of  the  latest  books  of  the 
OT.  The  influence  of  Aram,  is  apparent,  both  in  the 
vocabulary  and  in  a  few  construct  ions.  This  may  be 
accounted  for  on  the  theory  of  the  northern  origin 
of  the  Song,  or  on  the  hypothesis  of  a  post-exilic 
date.  The  question  of  date  is  still  open. 

IV.  History  of  Interpretation. — All  interpreters 
of  all  ages  agree  in  saying  that  Canticles  is  a  poem 


Song  of  Songs      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2832 


of  love;  hut  who  tho  lovers  are  is  a  subject  of  keer 
debate,  esp.  in  modern  times. 

First   in   point  of  time  and   in   the   number  o; 
adherents  it  has  had  is  the  theory  that  the  Song 

is  a  pure  allegory  of  the  love  of  Jeh 
1.  The  and    His   people.     The  Jewish  rabbis 

Allegorical     from  the  latter  part  of  the  1st  cent 
Interpreta-    AD  down  to  our  own  day,  taught  that 
tion  the  poem  celebrates  a  spiritual  love, 

Jeh  being  the  bridegroom  and  Israel 
the  bride.  Canticles  was  supposed  to  be  a  vivid 
record  of  the  loving  intercourse  between  Israel  and 
her  Lord  from  the  exodus  on  to  the  glad  Messianic 
time.  The  Song  is  read  by  the  Jews  at  Passover, 
which  celebrates  Jeh's  choice  of  Israel  to  be  Hi 
spouse.  The  Tg  interprets  Canticles  as  an  allegory 
of  the  marital  love  of  Jeh  and  Israel.  Origen  made 
the  allegorical  theory  popular  in  the  early  church. 
As  a  Christian  he  represented  the  bride  as  the  church 
or  the  soul  of  the  believer.  In  more  recent  centuries 
the  Christian  allegorical  interpreters  have  favored 
the  idea  that  the  soul  of  the  believer  was  the 
bride,  though  the  other  type  of  the  allegorical  view 
has  all  along  had  its  advocates. 

Bernard  of  Clairvaux  wrote  86  sermons  on  tho  first 
two  chapters  of  Canticles;  and  a  host  of  writers  In  the 
Roman  church  and  among  Protestants  have  composed 
similar  mystical  treatises  on  the  Song.  Devout  souls 
have  expressed  their  fervent  love  to  God  in  the  sensuous 
imagery  of  Canticles.  The  imagery  could  not  become 
too  fervid  or  ecstatic  for  some  of  these;  devout  men  and 
women  in  their  highest  moments  of  beatific  vision. 
Whatever  may  bo  the  final  verdict  of  sane  criticism  as 
to  the  original  purpose  of  the  author  of  the  Song,  it  is  a 
fact  that  must  not  be  overlooked  by  the  student  of 
Canticles  that  some  of  the  noblest  religious  souls,  both 
Hob  and  Christian,  have  fed  the  flame,  of  devotion  by 
interpreting  the  Song  as  an  allegory. 

What  justification  is  there  for  the  theory  that 
Canticles  is  an  allegory  of  the  love  between  Jeh  and 
His  people,  or  of  the  love  of  Christ  and  the  church,  or 
of  the  love  of  the  soul  of  the  believer  and  Christ? 
It  must  be  frankly  confessed  that  there  is  not  a 
hint  in  the  Song  itself  that  it  is  an  allegory.  If  the 
modern  reader  of  Canticles  had  never  heard  of  the 
allegorical  interpretation,  nothing  in  the  beginning, 
middle  or  end  of  the  poem  would  be  likely  to  suggest 
to  his  mind  such  a  conception  of  the  poet's  meaning. 
How,  then,  did  the  early  Jewish  interpreters  come 
to  make  this  the  orthodox  interpretation  of  the 
Song?  The  question  is  not  easy  to  answer.  In 
the  forefront  of  our  answer  we  must  recall  the  fact 
that  the  great  prophets  frequently  represent  the 
mutual  love  of  Jeh  and  Israel  under  the  symbolism 
of  marriage  (Hos  1-3;  Jer  3;  Ezk  16,'  23;  Isa 
60  1;  645.6).  The  Heb  interpreter  might  naturally 
expect  to  find  some  echo  of  this  bold  imagery  in  the 
poetry  of  the  K'thubhlm.  In  the  Torah  the  fre- 
quent command  to  lore  Jeh  might  suggest  the 
marital  relation  as  well  as  that  of  the  father  and 
son  (Dt  6  5;  7  7-9.13;  10  12.15;  30  16.20), 
though  it  must  be  said  that  the  language  of  Dt 
suggests  the  high  ethical  and  religious  teaching  of 
Jesus  in  the  matter  of  love  to  God,  in  which  the 
sexual  does  not  appear. 

Cheyne  suggests  (EB,  I,  683  f)  that  the  Song  was  too 
joyous  to  be  used,  in  its  natural  sense,  by  tho  Jews  after 
tho  destruction  of  Jorus,  and  hence  they  consecrated  it 
by  allegorical  interpretation.  The  suggestion  may  con- 
tain an  element  of  truth. 

It  is  an  interesting  fact  that  the  Psalter  has  so  few 
expressions  in  which  love  to  Jeh  is  expressed  (31  23- 
97  10;  145  20;  cf  18  1;  42  1;  63  1).  In  this  manual 
of  devotion  one  would  not  be  surprised  to  find  the  expan- 
sion of  tho  image  of  wedlock  as  expressive  of  tho  soul's 
relation  to  God;  but  wo  look  in  vain  for  such  a  poem, 
unless  Ps  45  be  capable  of  allegorical  interpretation. 
Even  that  beautiful  song  of  love  and  marriage  contains 
no  such  highly  sensuous  imagery  as  is  found  in  Canticles. 

Christian  scholars  found  it  easy  to  follow  the 
Jewish  allegorical  interpreters;  for  the  figure  of 
wedlock  is  employed  in  the  NT  by  both  Paul  and 


John  to  represent  the  intimate  and  vital  union  of 
Christ  and  His  church  (2  Cor  11  2;  Eph  5  22-33; 
Rev  19  7-9;  21  2.9  ff). 

The  entire  body  of  true  believers  is  conceived  of  as  the 
bride  of  Christ.  Naturally  tho  purity  of  the  church  is 
sullied  through  the  impure  conduct  of  the  individuals 
of  whom  it  is  composed.  Hence  the  appeal  to  individuals 
atid  to  local  churches  to  live  pure  lives  (2  Cor  11  1). 
To  tho  unmarried  believer  tho  Lord  Jesus  takes  tho  place 
of  the  husband  or  wife  as  tho  person  whom  one  is  most 
eager  to  please  (1  Cor  7  32  f).  It  is  not  difficult  to 
utiderstand  how  the  fervid,  sensuous  imagery  of  Canticles 
would  appeal  to  the  mind  of  a  man  like-  Origen  as  a  proper 
vehicle  for  the  expression  of  his  passionate  love  for  Christ. 

Sober  inquiry  discovers  no  sufficient  justification 
of  the  allegorical  interpretation  of  the  Song  of 
Songs.  The  pages  of  the  mystical  commentators 
are  filled  with  artificial  interpretations  and  con- 
ceits. Many  of  them  practise  a  familiarity  with 
Christ  that  is  without  example  in  the  Bib.  devo- 
tional literature. 

The  allegorical  interpreters,  for  the  most  part, 
saw  in  the  Song  of  Songs  no  historic  basis.  Solo- 
mon and  the  Shulammite  an;  intro- 
2.  The  duced  merely  as  figures  through  whom 

Typical  In-  God  and  His  people,  or  Christ  and  the 
terpretation  soul,  can  express  their  mutual  love. 
In  modern  times  interpreters  have 
arisen  who  regard  the  Song  as  primarily  the  expres- 
sion of  strong  and  passionate  human  love  between 
Solomon  and  a  beautiful  maiden,  but  by  virtue 
of  the  typical  relation  of  the  old  dispensation, 
secondarily,  the  fitting  expression  of  the  love  of 
Christ  and  the  church. 

The  way  for  this  modern  typical  interpretation  was 
prepared  by  Lowth  (Sacred  Poetry  of  the  Hebrews,  Loots 
XXX,  XXXI)  in  his  modified  allegorical  view,  which  is 
thus  described  by  ("anon  Driver:  "Bishop  Lowth, 
though  not  abandoning  the  allegorical  view,  sought  to 
free  it  from  its  extravagances ;  and  while  refusing  to  press 
details,  held  that  the  poem,  while  describing  the  actual 
nuptials  of  Solomon  with  the  daughter  of  Pharaoh,  con- 
tained also  an  allegoric  reference  to  Christ  espousing  a 
church  chosen  from  among  the  Gentiles"  (LOT,  451). 
Few  Interpreters  have  boon  found  to  follow  Theodore  of 
Mopsuestia  and  Lowth  in  their  view  that  the  Song  cele- 
brates the  marriage  of  Solomon  and  an  Egyp  princess; 
and  Lowth's  notion  of  a  reference  to  the  espousal  of  a 
church  chosen  from  among  the  Gentiles  is  one  of  the 
curiosities  of  criticism.  Of  the  typical  interpreters 
Delitzsch  is  perhaps  the  ablest  (Co mm.  on  Ecclesiastes 
and  the  Song  of  Sonys). 

The  typical  commentators  are  superior  to  the 
allegorical  in  their  recognition  of  Canticles  as  the 
expression  of  the  mutual  love  of  two  human  beings. 
The  further  application  of  the  language  to  Jeh  and 
His  people  (Keil),  or  to  Christ  and  the  church 
(Delitzsch),  or  to  God  and  the  soul  (M.  Stuart) 
becomes  largely  a  matter  of  individual  taste,  in- 
terpreters differing  widely  in  details. 

Jewish  interpreters  were  deterred  from  the  literal 
interpretation  of  Canticles  by  the  anathema  in  the 
Mish  upon  all  who  should  treat  the 
}.  The  poem  as  a  secular  song  (Sanhedhrln, 

Literal  In-      101«).     Cheyne  says  of  Ibn  Ezra,   a 
terpretation  great  mediaeval  Jewish  scholar,  he  "is 
so  thorough  in  his  literal  exegesis  that 
t  is  doubtful  whether  he  is  .serious  when  he  pro- 
ceeds   to    allegorise."     Among    Christian    scholars 
Theodore  of  Mopsuestia  interpreted  Canticles  as  a 
=;ong  in  celebration  of  the  marriage  of  Solomon  and 
Pharaoh's  daughter.        This  strictly   literal  inter- 
pretation of  the  Song  was  condemned  at  the  second 
•ouncil  of  Constantinople  (553  AD).     For  the  next 
housand    years    the    allegorical    theory    reigned 
upreme   among   Christian   interpreters.     In    1544 
•Sebastian  Castellio  revived  the  literal  theory  of  the 
Song,  though  the  allegorical  view  remained  domi- 
lant  until  the  19th  cent. 

Herder  in  1778  published  a  remarkable  little 
reatise  entitled  Licder  der  Liebe,  die  dltesten  und 
chonsten  aus  detn  Morgenlande,  in  which  he  ad- 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIHLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       Song  of  Songs 


van cod  the  theory  th:it  Canticles  is  a  collection  of 
independent  erotic  songs,  about.  21  in  number,  which 
have  been  so  arranged  by  a  collector  as  to  trace  "the 
gradual  growth  of  true  love  in  its  various  nuances 
and  stages,  till  it  finds  its  consummation  in  wedlock" 
(Cheyne).      Hut  the  greatest  and   most  influential 
advocate  of  the  literal  interpretation  of  Canticles 
was  Heinrich  Ewald,    who  published  the  1st  ed  of 
his  comm.   in    1X2(5.      It   was  Ewald   who  first  de- 
veloped  and    made   popular   the   theory   that   two 
suitors  compete  for  the;  hand  of  the  Shulamrnite, 
the  one  a  shepherd  and  poor,  the  other  a  wise  and 
wealthy  king.     In   the  Song  he  ascribes  to  Solo- 
mon 1  9-11.15;   2  2;   4  1-7;   6  4-13  (quoting  the 
dialogue  between  the  Shulamrnite  and  the  ladies  of 
the  court  in  vs  10-1M);    7   1-9.     To  the  shepherd 
lover  he  assigns  few  verses,  and  these  are  repeated  by 
the  Shulainmite  in   her   accounts  of  imaginary  or 
real    interviews  with  her  lover.     In  the  following 
passages  the  lover  described  is  supposed  to  be  the 
shepherd  to  whom  the  Shulamrnite  had  plighted  her 
troth:    1  2-7.9-14;    1  10—  2  1;    2  8-7.8-17;    3  1- 
5;    4  8—5  1;    5  2-8;    5  10-1(5;    6  2  f ;   7  10—8  4; 
8  5-14.     The  shepherd  lover  is  thus  supposed  to  be 
present  in   the  Shulammite's  dreams,   and   in   her 
waking_  moments  she  is  ever  thinking  of  him  and 
describing  to  herself  and  others  his  many  charms. 
Not  until  the  closing  scene   (8  5-14)   does  Ewald 
introduce  the  shepherd  as  an  actor  in  the  drama. 
Ewald  had  an  imperial  imagination  and  a  certain 
strength  of  mind  and  innate  dignity  of  character 
which  prevented  him  from  dragging  into  the  mud 
any  sect  ion  of  the  Hit),  lit .     While  rejecting  ent  irely 
the  allegorical  theory  of  Canticles,  he  yet  attributed 
to  it  an  ethical  quality  which  made  the  Song  wort  hy 
of  a  place  in  the  OT.     A  drama  in  praise  of  fidelity 
between  human  lovers  may  well  hold  a  place  beside 
EccI  and  Prov  in  the  Canon.     Many  of  the  ablest 
OT  crit  ics  have  followed  Ewald  in  his  general  theory 
that  Canticles  is  a  drama  celebrating  the  loyalty  of 
a  lowly  maiden  to  her  shepherd  lover.     Not  even 
Solomon  in  all  his  glory  could  persuade  her  to  be- 
come his  queen. 

Within  the  past  quarter  of  a  century  the  unity  of 
Canticles  has  been  again  sharply  challenged.  An 
account  of  the  customs  of  the  Syrian  peasants  in 
connection  wit  h  weddings  was  given  by  the  Prussian 
consul  at  Damascus,  J.  G.  Wotzstein,  in  1873,  in 
an  article  in  Bastian's  Zeitschrift  fur  Ethnologic, 
270  ff,  on  "Die  syrische  Dreschtafel,"  in  which  he 
illustrated  the  OT  from  modern  Syrian  customs. 
Driver  thus  describes  the  customs  that  are  supposed 
to  throw  light  upon  Canticles:  "In  modern  Syria, 
the  first  seven  days  after  a  wedding  are  called  the 
'king's  week';  the  young  pair  play  during  this  time 
king  and  queen;  the  'threshing-board'  is  turned 
into  a  mock-throne,  on  which  they  are  seated, 
while  songs  are  sung  before  them  by  the  villagers 
and  others,  celebrating  them  on  their  happiness, 
among  which  the  watf,  or  poetical  'description'  of 
the  physical  beauty  of  the  bride  and  bridegroom, 
holds  a  prominent  place.  The  first  of  these  watfs 
is  sung  on  the  evening  of  the  wedding-day  itself: 
brandishing  a  naked  sword  in  her  right  hand,  and 
with  a  handkerchief  in  her  left,  the  bride  dances  in 
her  wedding  array,  lighted  by  fires,  and  surrounded 
by  a  circle  of  guests,  half  men  and  half  women, 
accompanying  her  dance  with  a  waff  in  praise  of 
her  charms"  (LOT,  452).  Wetzstein  suggested  the 
view  that  Canticles  was  composed  of  the  wedding- 
songs  sung  during  "the  king's  week."  This  theory 
has  been  most  fully  elaborated  by  Budde  in  aii 
article  in  the  New  World,  March,  1894,  and  in  his 
comm.  (1898).  According  to  Budde,  the  bridegroom 
is  called  King  Solomon,  and  the  bride  Shulammith. 
The  companions  of  the  bridegroom  are  the  60 
valiant  men  who  form  his  escort  (3  7).  As  a 


bride,  the  maiden  is  called  the  most  beautiful  of 
women  (1  ,S;  6  9;  6  1).  The  pictures  of  wedded 
bliss  are  sung  by  the  men  and  women  present,  the 
words  being  attributed  to  the  bride  and  the  bride- 
groom. Thus  the  festivities  continue  throughout 
the  week.  Hudde's  theory  has  some  decided  ad- 
vantages over  Ewald's  view  that  the  poem  is  a 
drama,  but  t  he  loss  in  moral  quality  is  considerable; 
the  book  becomes  a  collection  of  wedding-songs 
in  praise  of  (he  joys  of  wedlock. 

V.  Closing  Hints  and  Suggestions. — Having 
given  a  good  deal  of  attention  to  Canticles  during  the 
past  15  years,  the  author  of  this  article  wishes  to 
record  a  few  of  his  views  and  impressions. 

(1)  Canticles    is  lyric  poetry    touched    with   the 
dramatic  spirit.     It  is  not  properly  classed  as  drama, 
for  the  Hebrews  had  no  stage,  though  much  of  the 
OT  is  dramatic  in  spirit.     The  descriptions  of  the 
charms  of  the  lovers  wore  to  be  sung  or  chanted. 

(2)  The  amount  that  has  to  be  read  between  the 
lines    by    (lie    advocates    of    the    various    dramatic 
theories  is  so  great  that,   in   the  absence  of  any 
hints  in   the  body  of   the  book   itself,   reasonable 
certitude  can  never  be  attained. 

(.'})  The  correct  tr  of  the  refrain  in  2  7  and  3  5 
(of  8  4)  is  important  for  an  understanding  of  the 
purpose  of  Canticles.  It  should  be  rendered  as 
follows: 

'  I  adjure  you,  O  daughters  of  Jerusalem, 
By  the  gazelles,  or  by  the  hinds  of  the  field. 
That  ye  stir  not  up,  nor  awaken  love, 
Until  it  please.' 

Love  between  man  and  woman  should  not  be 
excited  by  unnatural  stimulants,  but  should  be 
free  and  spontaneous.  In  8  4  it  seems  to  be  implied 
that  the  women  of  the  capital  are  guilty  of  employ- 
ing artifices  to  awaken  love: 

'I  adjure  you,  O  daughters  of  Jerusalem, 
Why  do  ye  stir  up,  or  awaken  love, 
Until  it  please  ? ' 

That  this  refrain  is  in  keeping  with  the  purpose  of 
the  writer  is  clear  from  the  striking  words  toward 
the  close  of  the  book: 

"Set  me  as  a  seal  upon  thy  heart, 
As  a  seal  upon  thine  ami: 
For  love  is  strong  as  death; 
Jealousy  is  cruel  as  Sheol; 
The  Hashes  thereof  are  Hashes  of  fire, 
A  very  flume  of  Jehovah. 
Many  waters  cannot  quench  love, 
Neither  can  floods  drown  it : 
If  a  man  would  give  all  the  substance  of  his 

house;  for  love, 
He  would  utterly  be  contemned"  (8  0  f). 

(4)  Canticles    discloses    all    the    secret   intimacies    of 
wedded  life   without   becoming   obscene.     The  imagery 
is  too  sensuous  for  our  taste  in  western  lands,  so  that 
words   of   caution   are   often    timely,    lest   the  sensuous 
degenerate  into  the  sensual;    but  I  have;  been  told   bv 
several  Syrian  and  Palestinian  students  whom  I  have  had 
the  privilege  of  teaching,   that   Canticles    is  considered 
quite    chaste    among    their    people,    the    wedding-songs 
now  in   use  among   them  being  more   minute  in   their 
description  of  the  physical  charms  of  the  lovers. 

(5)  Canticles  is  by  no  means  excluded  from  the 
Canon  by  the  acceptance  of  the  literal  interpretation. 
Ewald's  theory  makes  it  an  ethical  treatise  of  great 
and  permanent  value.     Even  if  Canticles  is  merely 
a  collection  of  songs  describing  the  bliss  of  true 
lovers  in  wedlock,  it  is  not  thereby  rendered  un- 
worthy of  a  place  in  the  Bible,  unless  marriage  is 
to  be  regarded  as  a  fall  from  a  state  of  innocency. 
If  Canticles  should  be  rejected  because  of  its  sensu- 
ous imagery  in  describing  the  joys  of  passionate 
lovers,    portions   of   Prov   would   also   have   to   be 
excised     (Prov  5  15-20).     Perhaps    most    persons 
need  to  enlarge  their  conception  of  the  Bible  as  a 
repository  for  all  things  that  minister  to  the  welfare 
of    men.     The    entire    range    of    man's    legitimate 
joys  finds   sympathetic   and   appreciative   descrip- 
tion in  the  Bible.     Two  young  lovers  in  Paradise 


Song  of  Children 
Sons  of  God  (NT) 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2834 


nood  not.  fear  to  rise  and  moot  their  Creator,  (should 
Ho  visit  thorn  in  the;  cool  of  the  day. 

LITERATURE. — ('.  I).  GinsburK.  The  Kong  of  Sotn/x 
with  <i  C<»/tm.,  llixtnririil  nn<l  Critical,  IS57;  M.  Ewald, 
Dichter  des  Allen  Bunites,  III,  :«H— iL'd,  1X<>7;  F.  O.  Cook, 
in  liib.  Comm.,  1S74;  Fran/:  Dolit/seh,  Hoheslied  u' 
Koheleth,  1S75  (also  tr);  O.  Zockler,  in  Lance's  C,,mm 
1875;  S.  Oettli,  Kurzi/efaxxter  Kommentar,  ISSi)-  W  K' 
Grifns,  The.  Lilu  among  Thorn*.  1SOO;  .].  \\ .  Rothstein 
Dux  flohe  Li,-d.  1X93;  K.  Biidde.  art.  in  Mew  \V»rld' 
March.  1894.  and  Kommenlar.  189S;  (V  Siegfried  1'redi- 
ger  u.  Hoheslied.  1898;  A.  Harper,  in  Cambridge  li!l,le 
1902;  (i.  ('.  Martin,  in  Century  Jiiiile.  1908;  art.  on  "Can- 
ticles" by  Choyno  in  EH,  1899. 

JOHX  RICHARD  SAMPKY 

SONG  OF  THE  THREE  CHILDREN: 

1 .  Xame 

2.  Canonicity 

3.  Contents 

4.  Author  and  Date 

5.  Original  Language 

6.  Text  and  Versions 
LITERATURE 

For  general  remarks  (-oncoming  the  Additions  to 
Daniel  see  BKL  AND  Tin-;  DRACOX. 

This  Addition  has  no  separate  title  in  any  MS 

or  VS  because   in   the  LXX,  Theod,  Syr  anil  Lat 

(Old  Lat  and  Vulg)  it  follows  Dnl  3  2: 

1.  Name       immediately,  forming  an  integral  por- 

tion  of  that  chapter,  viz.  vs  24-1M 
in  the  LXX  and  Vulg.  It  is  the  only  one  of  tht 
three  Additions  which  has  an  organic  connection 
with  Did;  as  regards  the  others  see  preliminary  re- 
marks to  BKL  A\I)  THK  DRACOX.  The  tit  It;  hi  EV 
is  "The  Song  of  the  Three  Holy  Children,"  a  tith 
describing  its  matter  as  formerly  understood,  though 
a  more  rigid  analysis  shows  that  in  the  OS  verses  so 
designated,  we  have  really  two  separate  sections. 
See  3,  below. 

See  introductory  remarks  to  BKL  AND  THE  DRACOX. 

The  order  in  which  the  throe  "Additions  to  Dnl"  are 

found    in     the     (Separate     Protestant) 

2.  Canon-      Apoc     is    decided     by    their    sequence 
icity  in    the    Yulg,   the    Song   of    (he    Three 

Children  forming  part  of  ch  3.  Sus  of 
ch  13,  and  Bel  of  ch  14  of  Dnl. 

Though  the  Eng.  and  other  Protestant.  VSS  treat, 

the  (iS  verses  as  one  piece  under  the  name  given 

above,     there    are    really     two    quite 

3.  Contents  distinct   compositions.     Those   appear 

separately  in  the  collection  of  Odes 
appended  to  the  Psalter  in  Cod.  A  under  the  headings 

"The  Prayer  of  Azarias"  (llpoaevx'n  'Afrplov,  Pros- 
eucht  Azariou,  Azariah,  Dnl  1  6  f )  and  "The 
Hymn  of  Our  Fathers"  ("T/XJ/OS  TUV  wartpuv  ij^dv 
Humnos  ton  pateron  hemon);  see  Swete  The  OT 
in  Or,  3S04ff,  and  Intro  to  the  OT  in  Gr,  2f>3  f . 
Luther  with  his  usual  independence  makes  each 
of  these  into  a  separate  book  under  the  titles,  "The 
Prayer  of  Azaria"  (Das  Gehet  Axarjnx)  and  "The 
Song  of  the  Three  Men  in  the  Fire"  (Der  Ccsana 
dcr  drei  Manner  im  Feuerofen). 

(1)  The  Prayer  of  Azarias  (vs  1-22)  (Dnl  3  24- 
48).—  Azariah  is  the  Hob  name  of  Abed-nego  (  = 
Abednebo,  "servant  of  Nebo"),  the  latter  being 
the  Bab  name  (see  Dnl  1  7;  2  49,  etc)  This 
prayer  joins  on  to  Dnl  3  23,  where  it  is  said  that 

Shadrach,  Meshach  and  Abed-nego  [Azariah]  fell 
down  bound  into  the  midst  of  the  burning  fiery 
furnace."  6  (the  VS  of  Theodotion;  see  "Text  and 
Versions"  below)  adds,  "And  they  walked  [Syr  adds 

in  their  chains"]  in  the  midst  of  the  fire,  praising 
God,  and  blessing  the  Lord."  This  addition  forms 
a  suitable  connecting  link,  and  it  has  been  adopted 
by  the  Vulg  and  in  modern  VSS  which  are  made 
from  9  and  not  from  the  LXX,  which  last  was  lost 
for  many  centuries  (see  BKL  AND  THK  DRAGON,  III). 
In  the  LXX  the  words  with  which  the  Prayer  was 
introduced  are  those:  "Thus  therefore  "prayed 
Hanamas,  and  Azarias  and  Misaol  and  sang  praises 
[hymns]  to  the  Lord  when  the  king  commanded 


that  they  should  be  cast  into  the  furnace."  The 
prayer  (offered  by  Azarias)  opens  with  words  of 
adoration  followed  by  an  acknowledgment  that  the 
sufferings  of  the  nation  in  Babylon  were  wholly 
deserved,  and  an  earnest  entreaty  that  God  would 
intervene  on  behalf  of  His  exiled  and  afflicted  people. 
That  this  prayer  was  not  composed  for  the  occasion 
with  which  it  is  connected  goes  without  saying.  No 
one  in  a  burning  furnace  could  pray  as  Azarias  does. 
There  an-  no  groans  or  sighs,  nor  prayer  for  help 
or  deliverance  of  a  personal  nature.  The  deliver- 
ance sought  is  nat  ional. 

(2)  The.  Song  of  Hie  Three  Holij  Children  (rs  28-68) 
(Dnl  3  51-90). — This  is  introduced  by  a  brief  con- 
necting narrative  (vs  23-27).  The  king's  servants 
continued  to  heat  the  furnace,  but  an  angel  came 
down  and  isolated  an  inner  /one  of  the  furnace  with- 
in which  no  flames  could  enter;  in  this  the  throe 
found  safety.  Rothstein  (Kautzsch,  DieApok.,  17")) 
is  inclined  to  think  that  this  narrative  section  (vs 
23-27)  stood  between  Dnl  3  23  and  3  24  in  the 
original  Hob  text.  The  "Song"  is  really  a  ps, 
probably  a  tr  of  a  Hob  original.  It  has  nothing  to 
do  with  the  incident — the  throe  young  men  in  the 
furnace— except  in  ver  00  (EV)'  where  the  three 
martyrs  call  upon  themselves  by  name  to  praise 
and  bless  the  Lord  for  delivering  them  from  the 
midst  of  the  furnace.  This  verse  is  an  interpolation, 
for  the  rest  of  the  Song  is  a  long  litany  recalling 
Ps  103  and  osp.  Pss  136,  148,  and  Sir  43.  'The Song, 
in  fact,  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  sufferings  of  the 
three  young  men,  but  is  an  ordinary  hymn  of  praise. 
It  is  well  known  from  the  fact  that  if  forms  a  part 
of  the  Anglican  Prayer-book,  as  it  had  formed  part 
of  many  early  Christian  liturgies. 

(1)  Wo  know   nothing   whatever  of  the  author 
besides  what  may  be  gathered  from  this  Addition. 
It  is  quite  evident  that,  none  of  the 
4.  Author      three  Additions  belong  to  the  original 
and  Date       text,  of  Dnl,  and  that  they  wore  added 
because    they    contained     legends    in 
keeping  with  the  spirit  of  "that  book,  and  a  song  in 
a  slight  degree  (ver  (Hi  EV)  adapted  to  the  situation 
of  the  three  Hob  youths  in  the  furnace,  though  itself 
of  an  independent  liturgical  origin. 

For  a  long  time  the  three  Additions  must,  have  circu- 
lated independently.  Polychronius says  that  "The  SOUK 
of  the  Three  Holy  Children"  was,  even  in  the  5th  cent. 
AD,  absent  from  the  text  of  Dnl.  both  in  the  Pesh  and 
in  the  LXX  proper.  Rothstein  (Kautzseh,  Die  A  po/:. 
17(i)  contends  that  the  Additions  formed  a  part  of  the 
LXX  from  the  beginning,  from  which  IK;  infers  that  they 
were  all  composed  before  the  LXX  was  made.  What 
was  the  date  of  this  VS  of  Dnl'.'  Since  its  use  seems 
implied  in  1  Mace  1  54  (cf  Dnl  11  :<1  ;  12  11)  it 
would  be  safe  to  conclude  that  it  existed  about  100  BC. 

(2)  Date  of  the  Prayer  of  Azarias. — In  ver  15 
(FA')  it  is  said  that  at  the  time  the  prayer  was 
offered,  there  was  no  prince,  prophet  or  loader,  nor 
sacrifice  of  any  kind.  This  may  point  to  the  time 
between  108  and  16f>  BC,  when  Antiochus  IV 
(Epiphanes)  profaned  the  temple.  If  written  in 
that  interval,  it  must  have  been  added  to  Dnl 
at  a  much  later  time.  But  on  more  occasions  than 
one,  in  later  times,  the  temple-services  were  sus- 
pended, as  e.g.  during  the  invasion  of  Jerus  by  the 
Egyp  king,  Ptolemy  IV  (Philopater). 

(3)  Date  of  the  fiong.—Wc  find  references  in  the 
Song  (vs  (52  f  EV)  to  priests  and  temple-servants,  and 
n  ver  31  to  the  temple  itself,  suggesting  that  when 
"he  Song  was  written  the  temple-services  were  car- 
•ied  on.  This,  in  itself,  would  suit  a  time  soon  after 
:he  purification  of  the  temple,  about  104  BC.  But 
the  terms  of  the  Song  are,  except  in  ver  GO  (EV),  so 
general  that  it,  is  impossible  to  fix  the  date  definitely. 
On  the  date  of  the  historical  connecting  narrative 
(vs  23-27)  see  3,  (2),  above. 


THE  IXTERXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


(1)  Romanist  scholars  in  general  and  several  Protes- 
tants (Eiehhorn,  Einlfit.,  in  das  AT,  IV,  24  f;  Einleit.  in 

die  apok.  Sc/iriftm,  419;  Vatke;  De- 
R  Orio-inal  lit/.sch,  l)r  Habacuci,  50;  Zoeklor,  Bissell, 

Ball,  Hothstein.  etc)  hold  that  the  original 
Language  language  was  Heb.  The  evidence,  which 

is  weak,  is  as  follows:  (<n  The  stylo  is  He- 
braistic throughout  (not  more  so  than  in  writings  known 
to  have  boon  composed  in  Alexandrian  <!r;  the  idiom 
Ka.Taio-\vi't:<T0ai-{-aiT6,  kataischiinesthai -\-ap6  =  'i'Q  C^i3  .  lioxh 

win  (ver  44  KV:  LXX  ver  44],  "to  be  ashamed  of," 
occurs  in  parts  of  the  LXX  which  are  certainly  not  tr9). 
(M  The  throe  Hob  martyrs  bear  Heb  names  (ver  GO  EV). 
This  only  shows  that  the  talc  is  of  I  Fob  origin.  (2) 
Most  modern  non-Romanist  scholars  hold  that  the 
original  language  of  the  Song  (and  Prayer)  was  Gr.  So 
Keil,  Fritzsche,  Do  Wette,  Schiirer,  Konig,  Cornill, 
Strack,  etc. 

Some  grounds:  (1)  The  Hebraisms  aro  comparatively 
few,  and  those  which  do  exist  can  bo  paralleled  in  other 
writings  composed  in  Hellenistic  Gr.  (2)  It  can  bo 
proved  that  in  Dnl  and  also  in  Bel  (see  Intro  to  Bel  in  the 
Offonl  Apoc,  ed  R.  II.  Charles),  Theodotion  corrects 
the  LXX  from  the  Heb  (lost  in  the  case  of  Bel);  but  in 
Three,  Theodotion  corrects  according  to  Gr  idiom  or 
grammar.  It  must  be  admitted,  however,  that  the 
evidence  is  not  very  decisive  either  way. 

As  to  the  text  and  the  various  versions  of  the 

Song,  see  what  is  said  in  art.  BEL  AND  THE  DRAGON. 

It  is  important  to  note  that  the  trs  in 

6.  Text  and    EV   are  made  from  Theodot ion's   Gr 

Versions         version,  which  occurs  in  ancient  VSS 

of  the  LXX  (A  B  V  Q  ''<•)  instead  of  the 

true  LXX  (Cod.  87). 

LITERATI-UK. — See  art.  BEL  AND  THIO  DKACOV;  Mar- 
shall (1IDB,  IV,  754);  W.  H.  Bennett  (Oxford  Apoc,  ed 
R.  H.  Charles,  625  ft). 

T.  WITTON  DAVIES 

SONGS  OF  DEGREES.  See  DEGREES,  SONGS 
OF;  DIAL  OF  AHAZ,  7. 

SONS  OF.     See  SON,  SONS. 

SONS  OF  GOD  (OT)  (CTl'SXri  ^2. ,  benc. 
ha- elohlm,  "sons  of  God"  [Gen  6  2.4;  Job  1  6; 
2  1];  DTfriJ  >1!.3,  bene  'elohlm,  "sons  of  God" 
[Job  38  7];  D^X  1:3,  bcne  'ellm,  "ye  mighty," 
AV;  "ye  sons  of  the  mighty,"  AVm,  RV;  "sons  of 
God"  or  "sons  of  the  gods,"  RVm  [Ps  29  1];  "sons 
of  the  mighty,"  AV  and  RV;  "sons  of  God"  or  "sons 
of  the  gods,"  RVm  [Ps  89  6  (Heb  7)];  LXX  viol 
TOV  0eov,  huioi  tou  thcoii,  ot  a.yyt\oi  TOV  0£ov,  hoi 
dggeloi  tou  thcoii  [Gen  6  2];  viol  TOV  0tov,  huioi  tou 
thcoii  [Gen  6  4];  ol  a-y^Xot  TOV  0«ov,  hoi  dggeloi  tou 
theou[Job  16;  2  1];  *yye\ol  pov,  dggeloi  mou  [Job 
38  7];  viol  Oeov,  huioi  thcoii  [Ps  29  1;  89  6'  cf 
Dnl  3  25]) : 

This  article  will  deal  with  this  phrase  as  it  is  used 

in  the  above  passages.     In  the  passages  from  Job 

and  Pss  it  is  applied  to  supernatural 

1.  Job  and    beings  or  angels.     In   Job   the   "sons 
Psalms          of  God"  are  represented  as  appearing 

before  the  throne  of  Jeh  in  heaven, 
ready  to  do  Him  service,  and  as  shouting  for  joy 
at  the  creation  of  the  earth.  In  the  Pss  they 
are  summoned  to  celebrate  the  glory  of  Jeh,  for 
there  is  none  among  them  to  be  compared  to 
Him.  The  phrase  in  these  passages  has  no  physical 
or  moral  reference.  These  heavenly  beings  are 
called  "sons  of  God"  or  "sons of  the'elohlm"  simply 
as  belonging  to  the  same  class  or  guild  as  the 
'elohim,  just  as  "sons  of  the  prophets"  denotes  those 
who  belong  to  the  prophetic  order  (sec  A.  B.  David- 
son, Comm.  on  Job  1  6). 

Different  views,  however,  arc  taken  of  the  pas- 
sage  in    Gen  6  2.4:    "The   sons  of   God   saw    the 

daughters  of  men  that  they  were  fair; 

2.  Gen           and  they  took  them  wives  of  all  that 
6:2.4  they  chose The  Nephilim  were 

in  the  earth  in  those  days,  and  also 
after  that,  when  the  sons  of  God  came  in  unto  the 
daughters  of  men."  See  GIANTS;  NEPHILIM. 


Song  of  Children 
Sons  of  God  (NT) 


(1)  "Sons  of  God"  is  interpreted  as  referring  to  men 
(a)  to  sons  of  the  nobles,  who  married  daughters  of  the 
common    people.      This    is    the    view    of    many    Jewish 
authorities,  who  hold  that  it  is  justified   by  the  use  of 
'tlohim  in  thesenseof  "judges"  (K\  21  0-    22  xf  etci 
But  this  cannot  be  the  meaning  of  'f-tf>t,lm  here    for  When 
'ddhdm,  "men,"  is  used  to  denote  the  lower  classes    it  is 
contrasted  with  'l«h,   as  in   Ps  49  i>    (Heb  3)    not  with 
'ilohim.      When  contrasted  with    'fl,-,t,im   it   signifies  the 
human    race,      (b)    Some    commentators    hold    that    by 
"sons   of  God"   is   to  be  understood  the  pious  race  de- 
scended   from    Seth,    and    by    "daughters    of    men"    the 
daughters   of   worldly   men.      These   commentators   con- 
nect   the    passage    with    (ion   4  '25  t.    where    the    race   of 
Seth  is  characterized  as  the  worshippers  of  Jeh   and  is 
designated  as  a  whole,  a  seed  (of  Dt  14   1 ;   32  5-   Hos  1 
10   [Heb  2  1J).     They  consider   the   restricted   meaning 
they   put   upon   "men"    as   warranted    by   the   contrast 
(cf  Jer  32  20;    Isa  43  4),  and  that  as  the  term  "daugh- 
ters     expresses  actual  descent,   it  is  natural  to  under- 
stand   "sons"    in   a   similar   sense.      The    phrase    "took 
wives,"   they  contend   also,   supports   the  ethical  view 
being  always  used  to  signify  real  and  lasting  marriages' 
and  cannot,  therefore,  be  applied  to  the  higher  spirits  iii 
their  unholy  desire  after  flesh.      On  this  view  vs  1    4  aro 
an  introduction  to  the  reason  for  the  Flood,   the  great 
wickedness  of  man  upon  the  earth   (ver  5).      It  is  held 
that  nothing  is  said  in  ver  4  of  a  race  of  giants  springing 
from  the  union  of  angels  with  human  wives  (see  paragraph 

,  below),  and  that  the  violence  which  is  mentioned 
along  with  the  corruption  of  the  world  (ver  11)  refers  to 
the  sin  of  the  giants. 

(2)  Most    scholars    now    reject    this    view    and 
interpret  "sons  of  God"  as  referring  to  supernatural 
beings  in  accordance  with  the  meaning  of  the  expres- 
sion in  the  other  passages.     They   hold   that   Dt 
14  1,  etc,  cannot   be  regarded   as  supporting   the 
ethical  interpretation  of  the  phrase  in  a  historical 
narrative.     The  reference  to  Jer  32  20,  etc,  too,  is 
considered  irrelevant,  the  contrast  in  these  passages 
being  between  Israel  and  other  nations,  not,  as  here, 
between  men  and  God.     Nor  can  a  narrower  signi- 
fication _  (daughters  of  worldly  men)  be  attached  to 
"men"  in  ver  2  than  to  "men"  in  ver  1,  where  the 
reference  is  to  the  human  race  in  general.     This 
passage  (Gen  6  1-4),  therefore,  which  is  the  only 
one  of  its  kind,  is  considered  to  be  out  of  its  place 
and  to  have  been  inserted  here  by  the  compiler 
as  an  introduction  to  the  story  of  the  Flood  (vs 
5-8).     The  intention  of  the  original  writer,  however, 
was  to  account  for  the  rise  of  the  giant  race  of 
antiquity  by  the  union  of  demigods  with  human 
wives.     This   interpretation   accords  with   En   chs 
6-7,  etc,  and  with  Jude  vs  6  f,  where  the  unnatural 
sin  of  the  men  of  Sodom  who  went  after  "strange 
flesh"  is  compared  with  that  of  the  angels  (cf  2  Pet 


ingels  (cf 

2  4ff).  (See  Havernick,  Intro  to  the  Pent;  Heng- 
stenberg  on  the  Pent,  1,  325;  Oehler,  OT  Theology, 
I,  196  f;  Schultz,  OT  Theology,  I,  114  ff; 
Comms.on  Gen  by  Delitzsch,  Dillmann,  and  Driver.) 
But  see  ANTEDILUVIANS,  3;  CHILDREN  OP  GOD; 
GIANTS;  NEPHILIM;  REPHAIM. 

JAMES  CHICHTON 

SONS   OF  GOD   (NT):    Two  Gr  words  are  trd 
"son,"    T^KVOV,  teknon,   vi6s,  huiox,    both    words    in- 
dicating   sonship    by    parentage,     the 

1.  NT  former  indicating  that  the  sonship  has 
Terms  taken  place  by  physical  descent,  while 

the  latter  presents  sonship  more  from 
the  legal  side  than  from  the  standpoint  of  relation- 
ship. John,  who  lays  special  emphasis  on  sonship 
by  birth,  uses  teknon,  while  Paul,  in  emphasizing  son- 
ship  from  the  legal  side,  as  referring  to  adoption, 
which  was  current  among  the  Romans  but  scarcely 
if  at  all  known  to,  or  if  known,  practised  by,  the 
Jews,  uses  the  word  huios  (Jn  1  12;  Rorn  8 
14.16.19;  Gal  4  6.7;  1  Jn  3  1.2). 

Men   are   not   by   nature   the   sons   of   God,   at 

least  not  in  the  sense  in  which  believers  in  Christ 

are  so  called.     By  nature  those1  outside 

2.  NT  of  Jesus  Christ  are  "children  of  wrath" 
Doctrine         (Eph  2  3),    "of   disobedience"    (2  2), 

controlled  not  by  the  Spirit  of  God 
(Rom  8  14),  but  by  the  spirit  of  disobedience 


Soothsayers 
Soul 


THE  IXTERXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


(Eph  2  2-4).  Men  become  sons  of  God  in  the 
regenerative  and  adoptive  sense  by  the  acceptance 
of  Jesus  Christ  as  Lord  and  Saviour  (Jn  1  12  i;  Gal 
3  20).  The  universal  brotherhood  which  the  Is  1 
teaches  is  that  brotherhood  which  is  based  on  faith 
in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Divine  and  only 
Saviour  of  the  world.  And  the  same  is  true  of  the 
universal  Fatherhood  of  God.  It  is  true  that  all 
men  are  "his  offspring"  (Acts  17  2S  f)  in  the  sense 
that  they  arc  God's  created  children;  but  that  the 
XT  makes  a  very  clear  and  striking  distinction 
between  sonship  by  virtue  of  creation  and  sonship 
by  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  there  can  be  no 
reasonable  doubt . 

Sonship  is  the  present  possession  of  the  believer 
in  Christ  (1  Jn  32).  It  will  lie  completed  at  the 
second  coming  of  Our  Lord  (Rom  8  23),  at  which 
time  the  believer  will  throw  off  Ins  incognito,  by 
reason  of  which  the  world  may  not  have  recog- 
nized his  sonship  (I  Jn  3  1.2),  and  be  fully  and 
gloriously  revealed  as  the  son  of  God  (2  Cor  6  1' 
It  doth  not  yet  appear,  it  hath  not  yet  appeared, 
what  we  shall  be;  tin;  revelation  of  the  sons  of  God 
is  reserved  for  a  coining  day  of  manifestation. 

The  blessings  of  sonship  are  too  numerous  to 
mention,  save  in  the  briefest  way.  His  sons  are 
objects  of  God's  peculiar  love  (Jn  17  23),  and  His 
Fatherly  care  (Lk  12  27-33).  They  have  the  family 
name  (Eph  3  14  f;  1  Jn  3  1);  the  family  likeness 
(Rom  8  29);  family  love  (Jn  13  35;  1  Jn  3  14); 
a  filial  spirit  (Rom  8  15;  Gal  4  01;  a  family  service 
(In  14  23  f;  15  S).  They  receive  fatherly  chas- 
tisement (He  12  5-11);  fatherly  comfort  (2  Cor 
1  4),  and  an  inheritance  (Rom  8  17;  1  Pet 

Among  the  evidences  of  sonship  are:  being  led  by 
the  Spirit,  (Rom  8  H;  Gal  5  IS);  having  a  child- 
like confidence  in  God  (Gal  4  5);  having  liberty  of 
access  (Eph  3  12);  having  love  for  the  brethren 
(1  Jn  2  0-11;  5  1),  and  obedience  (1  Jn  5  1-3). 

WILLIAM   EVANS 

SOOTHSAYERS,  so7>th'sa-erz.  See  ASTROLOGY, 
1;  DIVINATION. 

SOP,  sop  (\}/w|iCov,  psnmlon):  A  thin,  wafer-like 
piece  of  bread  dipped  into  the  common  dish  as  a 
sort  of  improvised  spoon,  is  thus  designated  in  Jn 
13  20  ff.  See  MOHSKL. 

SOPATER,  so'pa-ter,  sop'a-ter  (Suirarpos,  Sopn- 
trns):  RV  the  son  of  Pyrrhus;  A V  omits.  A  man 
of  Beroea  who  is  mentioned  with  some  Thessalonians 
and  others  as  accompanying  Paul  as  far  as  Asia  on 
his  return  to  Jerus  after  his  3d  missionary  journey 
(Acts  20  4).  He  is  probably  the  same  as  the 
"Sosipater"  of  Rom  16  21. 

SOPE,  sop.     See  SOAP. 

SOPHERETH,  so-fe'reth,  soffi-reth,  so'ff-reth 
(rnEC  ,  xilpltercth):  One  of  the  remnant  returning 
from  captivity  (Ezr  2  55  AV;  Neh  7  57).  In  RV 
of  Ezr  2  55  it  is  "Hassophcreth,"  the  def.  art. 
being  transliterated. 


SOPHONIAS,  sof-d-ni'as  ( LXX  So^ovias, 
nias) :   rPhe  form  in  AY  and  RV  of  2  Esd  1  40  for 
Zephaniah  the  prophet. 

SORCERER,  sor'ser-er,  SORCERY,  sor'ser-i. 
See  ASTROLOGY,  1;  DIVINATION;  MAUIC;  WITCH- 
CRAFT. 

SORE,  sdr  (substantive)  ("•>,,  ncgha' ;  €\KOS, 
hflkos,  vb.  €\Koo(xai,  hdkooinui):  In  the  account,  of 
the  appearance  of  leprosy  (Lev  13  42  f)  the  spot 
on  the  skin  is  called  by  this  name,  which  in  AV  is  trd 


"sore  "  but  in  RV  "plague";  similarly  in  the  Dedi- 
cation Prayer  (2  Ch  6  28  f)  RV  has  altered  the 
rendering  of  neyha*  for  "sore"  to  "plague"  as  it  has 
done  also  in  Ps  38  1 1 .  The  word  literally  means  a 
"stroke"  or  "blow,"  and  so  is  applied  to  a  disease  or 
infliction  from  God.  n*TTJ  HST? ,  makkuh  tfrlyah, 
in  AY  is  rendered  "putrifying  sores,"  ERV  "fester- 
ing sores,"  ARV  and  ERVm  "fresh  stripes."  See 
STRIIMOS.  In  the  only  other  text  in  the  OT  in 
which  "sore"  is  used  as  a  substantive  in  AV  (Ps 
77  2),  the  word  used  is  yadh,  which  lit.  means  the 
"outstretched  hand,"  hence  RV  renders  the  text: 
"My  hand  was  stretched  out  in  the  night  and  slacked 
not?'  In  the  XT  the  ulcers  on  the  limbs  of  Lazarus 
which  were  1  he  result  of  poverty  and  hardship 
(Lk  16  2,1),  and  were  licked  by  the  pariah  dogs 
(ver  21),  are  called  "sores."  Sores  also  which  are 
called  noisome  and  grievous,  were  the  result  of  the 
outpouring  of  the  first  of  the  seven  bowls  of  the 
wrath  of  "God  (Rev  16  2-11). 

ALKX.  MACALISTKB 

SOREK,     sd'rek,     VALLEY     OF     (pr.O    -He, 
nnhnl  xorek,  "the  valley  of  the  choice  [.w/v/i]   vine'' 
[see    VlNEJ;     <ru>pT|X>    sortch};     "[Samson]    loved    a 
woman   in  the  valley  of  Sorek,   whose   name   was 
Delilah"  (Jgs  16  4).  '  Jerome  (OX,  153 f,  6)  mentions 
a  Capharsorec  which  was  near  Saraa  (ancient  ZOKAH 
[q.v.]);    this   latter   is   undoubtedly   the  village  of 
N-//V;'//,   high  up  upon   the  northern  slopes  of  the 
great  Wndy  ex  Xurar.     About   :{  of  a  mile  W.  of  this 
is  Khurbet  Surik,  which  is  certainly  the  site  referred 
to  by  Jerome,  and  possibly  marks  that  of  a  more 
ancient    town  which   gave  its  name  to  the  whole 
valley.     This  valley   is  of  importance   in   the   his 
torical  geography  of  Pal  out  of  all  proportion  to 
its   scanty    mention   in   the   OT    (IKillL,   21S  ff). 
The  \\'('uiy  ex  X//m/-  is  an  expansion   of  the  ravine 
W&dylsmaHn  (which  itself  is  formed  by  the  junction 
of  tlic  great  \Ytidy  Beit  Hanlneh,  which  rises  near 
Bereh,  and  the  Wddy   es'Sikkeh,  which  drains  the 
"Plain    of    Rephaim"     near    Jerus).     The    Jerus- 
Jaffa   Railway  traverses  successively  the   Wddy  ex 
Surar,  the  Wadij  Ixnini'n  and  the  Wndij  cs  Sikkeh 
to  reach  the  Jerus  plateau.     The  Valley  of  Sorek  is 
a  name  which  probably  belonged  only  to  the  open, 
fertile    valley,    well    suited    for    vineyards,    which 
traverses  the  Shephelah.      It   is  now  given  over 
almost   entirely  to  the  cultivation  of  wheat,  barley 
and  maize  (durra).     The  valley  passes  between  the 
lofty  hill  of  Xa/V/i.  (Zorah)  to  the  X.  and  Mm  Shems 
(Beth-shemesh)    and    Tibneh    (Timnah)   on  the  S. 
Standing  on   the  ruins  of  Beth-shemesh,   one  can 
watch  the  modern  railway  train  winding  for  miles 
up  the   valley   along  almost   the  very   road   from 
Ekron  (now  *Akw),  upon  which  came  the  strange 
sight  of  the  milch  kine  dragging  the  ark  (1  S  6  12). 
Verv  nrobablv  it  was  in  this  valley  that  the  Phihs 
were    defeated    (1  S  7  5-14)    (PEF,    III,    53,    Sh 
XVII).  E.  W.  G.  MASTERMAN 

SORREL,  sor'cl:  RV  in  Zee  1  8  for  "speckled." 
See  COLORS. 

SORROW,  sor'o  (bin,  hcbhcl,  ytt? ,  yaghon, 
r'XZ'G,  ninhii'ohh,  etc;  Xv-irii,  lupe):  The  OT  has 
very  many  words  tr'1  "sorrow,"  those  named  being 
the  most  frequent;  in  the  NT  "sorrow"  is  usually 

the  tr  of  liii"'  (Lk  22  4r'5  Jn  16  6'  2  Cor  2  3'T« 
etc).  Penthos,  tr'1  "sorrow"  in  Rev  18  7;  21  4,  is 
in  RV  "mourning."  Odune,  of  pain  and  distress, 
is  thus  rendered  in  Rorn  9  2;  1  Tim  6  10  (cf  .the 
vb.  in  Lk  2  4S;  Acts  20  3S).  RV  frequently  gives 
a  more  literal  rendering  of  the  words  used,  as  '  toil 
(Gen  3  17),  "pangs"  (Ex  15  14),  "pining"  (Dt  28 
05),  "distress"  (Isa  5  30),  "lamentation"  (Isa  29 
2),  etc;  sometimes  also  it  uses  "sorrow'  for  other 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Soothsayers 
Soul 


words,  as  for  "grief"  (2  Ch  6  29;  Ps  31  10;  69 
26;  etc;  2  Cor  2  5),  "heaviness"  (Rom  9  2;  2 
Cor  2  1). 

Sorrow  or  grief  is  necessary  for  discipline,  for  the 
development  of  the  finer  feelings  and  higher  nature 
of  the  soul  and  spirit  (F>cl  7  3,  "Sorrow  is  better 
than  laughter;  for  by  the  sadness  of  t  lie  countenance 
the  heart  is  made  glad,"  in  "better").  Sorrow 
inevitably  follows  sin,  and  is  its  punishment,  yet  the 
righteous  are  not  exempt  from  it.  The  "Servant 
of  Jeh"  was  "a  man  of  sorrows"  (Isa  63  .'5).  Chris- 
thins  learn  how  to  be  "sorrowful,  yet  alwavs  rejoic- 
ing" (2  Cor  6  10;  7  4;  Col  1  24;  1  Thess  1  ti; 
etc).  In  the  New  Jerus  it  is  predicted  that  there 
shall  be  no  sorrow,  for  sorrow  shall  have  done  its 
work,  and  the  first  things  have  passed  away  (Rev 
21  4).  W.  L.  WALKER 

SOSIPATER,  so-sip'a-ter  (Sioo-iiraTpos,  Sos'i- 
pntrnx):  Sosipater  unites  with  Lucius  and  Jason  in 
sending  greetings  to  the  Rom  Christians  (Rom  16 
21).  He  is  a  "kinsman"  of  Paul,  by  which  Paul 
means  a  Jew  (Rom  9  3;  16  11.21).  It  is  the  same 
name  as  SOPATER  (q.v.).  "Sopater  of  Beroea"  was 
one  of  the  companions  of  Paul  on  his  journey  from 
Philippi  after  his  3d  missionary  journey  (Acts  20  4). 
These  two  are  probably  the  same  person,  Paul 
having  with  him  in  Corinth,  at  the  time  of  writing 
to  the  Rom  Christians,  the  two  Macedonians,  So- 
pater of  Beroea  and  Jason  of  Thessalonica.  The 
name  Sosipater  is  found  on  a  list  of  politarchs  of 
Thessalonica.  S.  F.  HVXTKR 


SOSTHENES,  sos'the-nez  (, 
Chief  of  the  synagogue  at  Corinth  (Acts  18  17). 
Possibly  identical  with  the  co-worker  (afterward) 
of  Paul  mentioned  in  1  Cor  1  1. 

SOSTRATUS,  sos'tra-tus  (Swo-rparos,  Sdstratos, 
in  V  Soo--,  Sos-)  :  "The  governor  of  the  citadel" 
of  Jerus  under  Antiochus  IV  (Epiphanes).  His 
duty  was  to  gather  the  revenues  of  the  city  and 
province  for  the  imperial  treasury.  He  made  a 
new  departure  in  demanding  from  Menelaus  direct 
the  sum  promised  to  the  king  in  2  Mace  4  27  ff 
(for  Jason  had  the  privilege  of  sending  the  money 
by  his  own  messenger  to  the  king  [2  Mace  4  23]). 
This  claim  the  usurper  Menelaus  disputed;  con- 
sequently he  and  the  governor  were  both  summoned 
to  appear  before  the  king.  No  more  is  told,  and 
Sostratus  is  otherwise  unknown.  S.  Axcrs 

SOTAI,  so'ti,  so'ta-I,  s5-ta'l  PEC  ,  sotay):  One  of 
those  who  returned  from  captivity,  being  descend- 
ants of  Solomon's  servants  (Ezr  2  55;  Neh  7  57). 

SOTTISH,  sot'ish  (>20  ,  sakhal,  "thick-headed"): 
"They  are  sottish  [stupid,  very  foolish]  children" 
(Jer  4  22). 

SOUL,  sol  (IBS,,  nephcsh;  ^\r\,  psuche;  Lat 
anima)  : 

(1)  Soul,  like  spirit,  has  various  shades  of  mean- 
ing in  the  OT,  which  may  be  summarized  as  follows: 

"Soul,"  "living  being,"  "life,"  "self," 
1.  Shades  "person,"  "desire,"  "appetite,"  "emo- 
pf  Meaning  tion"  and  "passion"  (Bl)B,  s.v.).  In 
in  the  OT  the  first  instance  it  meant  that  which 

breathes,  and  as  such  is  distinguished 
from  M.mr,  "flesh"  (Isa  10  IS;  Dt  12  23);  from 
she'er,  "the  inner  flesh,"  next  the  bones  (Prov  11  17, 
"his  own  flesh");  from  beten,  "belly"  (Ps  31  10, 
"My  soul  and  my  belly  are  consumed  with  grief"), 
etc. 

(2)  As  the  life-breath,  it  departs  at  death  (Gen 
35  IS;    Jer  15  2).     Hence  the  desire  among   OT 


saints  to  be  delivered  from  Sheol  (P.s  16  10,  "Thou 
wilt  not  leave  my  soul  to  Sheol")  and  from  shahath, 
"the  pit"  (Job  33  IS,  "He  keepeth  back  his 'soul 
from  the  pit";  Isa  38  17,  "Thou  hast  ....  deliv- 
ered it  [my  soul]  from  the  pit  of  corruption"). 

(3)  By  an  easy  transition  the  word  comes  to  stand 
for  the  individual,  personal  life,  the  person,  with  two 
distinct    shades   of   meaning   which    might    best    be 
indicated  by  the  Lat  aninia  and  animus.     As  anima, 
"soul,"  the  life  inherent  in  the  body,  the  animating 
principle  in  the  blood  is  denoted  (cf  Dt  12  23.24, 
'Only  be  sure  that  thou  eat  not  the  blood:   for  the 
blood  is  the  soul;  and  thou  shalt  not  eat  the  soul 

,  with  the  flesh').  As  animus,  "mind,"  the  center  of 
our  mental  activities  and  passivities  is  indicated. 
Thus  we  read  of  'a  hungry  soul'  (Ps  107  9),  'a 

!  weary  soul'  (Jer  31  25),  'a  loathing  soul'  (Lev  26 
11),  'a  thirsty  soul'  (Ps  42  2),  'a  grieved  soul' 
(Job  30  25),  'a  loving  soul'  (Cant  1  7),  and  many 
kindred  expressions.  Cremer  has  characterized 
this  use  of  the  word  in  a  sentence:  " Nephcsh  [soul] 
in  man  is  the  subject  of  personal  life,  whereof 
pneuma  or  ruah  [spirit]  is  the  principle"  (Lexicon, 
s.v.,  795). 

(4)  This   individuality    of    man,    however,    may 
be  denoted    by  pneuma   as  well,   but    with  a  dis- 
tinction.     \ephesh  or  "soul"  can  only  denote  the 
individual  life  with  a  material  organization  or  body. 
Pneuma  or  "spirit"  is  not  so  restricted.     Scripture 
speaks  of  "spirits  of  just  men  made  perfect"  (He 
12  23),  where  then;  can  be  no  thought  of  a  material 
or  physical  or  corporeal  organization.     They  are 
"spiritual    beings    freed    from    the    assaults    and 
defilements  of  the  flesh"  (Delitzsch,  in  loc.).     For  an 
exceptional  use  of  psuche  iu  the  same  sense  see  Rev 
6  9;   20  4,  and  (irrespective  of  the  meaning  of  Ps 
16  10)  Acts  2  27. 

(1)  In  the  NT  psuche  appears  under  more  or  less 
similar  conditions  as  in  the  OT.     The  contrast  here 

is  as  carefully  maintained  as  there.  It 
2.  NT  Dis-  is  used  where  pneuma  would  be  out 
tinctions  of  place;  and  yet  it  seems  at  times  to 

be  employed  where  pneuma  might 
have  been  substituted.  Thus  in  Jn  19  30  we  read: 
"Jesus  gave  up  his  pneuma"  to  the  Father,  and,  in 
the  same  Gospel  (Jn  10  15),  Jesus  gave  up  His 
"pswc/ie  for  the  sheep,  "and  in  Mt  20  28HegaveHis 
psuche  (not  His  pneuma)  as  a  ransom — a  difference 
which  is  characteristic.  For  the  pneuma  stands  in 
quite  a  different  relation  to  God  from  the  psuche. 
The  "spirit"  (pneuma)  is  the  outbreaking  of  God 
into  the  creature,  the  life-principle  derived  from  God. 
The  "soul"  (psuche)  is  man's  individual  possession, 
that  which  distinguishes  one  man  from  another  and 
from  inanimate  nature.  The  pneuma  of  Christ  was 
surrendered  to  the  Father  in  death;  His  psuche 
was  surrendered,  His  individual  life  was  given  "a 
ransom  for  many."  His  life  "was  given  for  the 
sheep." 

(2)  This  explains  those  expressions  in  the  NT 
which  bear  on  the  salvation  of  the  soul  and  its 
preservation   in  the  regions  of   the  dead.     "Thou 
wilt  not  leave  my  soul  unto  Hades"  (the  world  of 
shades)    (Acts  2  27);     "Tribulation   and    anguish, 
upon  every  soul  of  man  that  worketh  evil"  (Rom 
2  9);  "We  are  ....  of  them  that  have  faith  unto 
the  saving  of  the  soul"  (He  10  39);  "Receive  .... 
the  implanted   word,   which  is  able  to  save  your 
souls"   (Jas  1  21). 

The  same  or  similar  expressions  may  be  met  with 
in  the  OT  in  reference  to  the  soul.  Thus  in  Ps  49 
8,  AV  "The  redemption  of  their  soul  is  precious," 
and  again:  "God  will  redeem  my  soul  from  the 
power  of  Sheol"  (Ps  49  15).  Pe'rhaps  this  may 
explain — at  least  this  is  Wendt's  explanation — 
why  even  a  corpse  is  called  nephcsh  or  soul  in  the  OT, 
because,  in  the  region  of  the  dead,  the  individuality 


Sound 
Speech 


THK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


28,38 


is  retained  and,  in  a  measure,  separated  from  God 
(cf  Hag  2  13;   Lev  21  11). 

The  distinction  between  psxchc  and  pneuma,  or 

ncphcsh  and  ru"h,  to  which  reference  has  been  made, 

may  best  be  described  in  the  words  of 

3.  Oehler      Oehler  (OT  Theology,  I,  217):    "Man 
on  Soul  and  is  not  spirit,  but  has  it:    lie  is  soul. 
Spirit  ....  In  the  .soul,  which  sprang  from 

the  spirit,  and  exists  continually 
through  it,  lies  the  individuality — in  the  case  of 
man,  his  -personality,  his  self,  his  ego."  He  draws 
attention  to  the  words  of  Elihu  in  Job  (33  4): 
'God's  spirit  made  me,'  the  soul  culled  into  being; 
'and  the  breath  of  the  Almighty  animates  me, 
the  soul  kept  in  energy  and  strength,  in  continued 
existence,  by  the  Almighty,  into  whose  hands 
the  inbreathed  spirit  is  surrendered,  when  the 
soul  departs  or  is  taken  from  us  (1  K  19  4). 
Hence  according  to  Oehler  the  phrases  naphshl 
("my  soul"),  •naphxh'klnl  ("thy  soul")  niay  be 
rendered  in  Lat  cgoinrl,  tn  //«<•;  but  not  nlhi  ("my 
spirit"),  ruhakha '("thy  spirit") — soul  standing  for 
the  whole  person,  as  in  Gen  12  5;  17  14;  Ezk  18 

4,  etc.     See  PSYCHOLOGY.  J.  I.  MAKAIS 

SOUND,  sound:  In  Isa  63  15  AV  has  "the 
sounding  of  thy  bowels,"  a  painfully  li'eral  tr  of 
h&rnon  me'eijkhd,  with  the  similar  phrase,  "my 
bowels  shall  sound  like  an  harp,"  in  16  11  (cf  Jer  48 
36).  The  intestines  were  considered  a  scat  of  emo- 
tion, and  at  times  of  great  excitement  were  thought 
(in  poetry,  at  least)  to  become  tense  and  to  give 
forth  a  musical  sound.  R.V  (following  AV  in  .Jer 
48  36)  substitutes  "heart"  for  "bowels"  in  Isa  16 
11,  thus  obscuring  the  figure  but  preserving  the 
sense.  In  Isa  63  15  RV  paraphrases  "the  yearning 
of  thy  heart"  (ERV  "bowels"),  a  needless  change 
from  16  11.  See  also  BATH  KOL;  SOLEMN,  SO- 
LEMNITY. BruTON  SCOTT  E ASTON 

SOUNDINGS,  sound'ing/.  See  SHIPS  AM> 
BOATS,  III,  2. 

SOUR,  sour:  (1)  1C3  ,  boxer,  "immature,"  "un- 
ripe": "The  fathers  have  eaten  sour  grapes"  (Jer 
31  29  f;  Kzk  18  2;  cf  Isa  18  f>  AV).  C>)  ^-C,,s)7r, 
"to  turn  aside,"  "degenerate":  "Their  drink  is  turned 
sour"  (AVm  "gone,"  RVm "Their  carouse  is  over'1). 

SOUTH,  south:  (1)  tt ,  ncghebh,  according  to 
BOB  from  V  ^-,  ndgluibh,  meaning  "to  be  dry," 
the  word  oftenest  used,  in  RV  capitalized  (South)  in 
those  places  where  it  seems  to  denote  a  particular 
region,  i.e.  to  the  S.  of  Judah.  (2)  "pT2? ,  yam'in, 
"right  hand,"  "right."  The  derived  meaning, 
"south,"  seems  to  imply  an  eastern  posture  in 
prayer  in  which  the  right  hand  is  toward  the  S.; 

cfArab.  ,-vM-J  ,  ynmin,  "right,"  and  ^j+j  ,  yemen, 

"Yemen,"  a  region  in  Southwestern  Arabia.  (3) 
"jTS"1!? ,  feman,  from  the  same  root  as  (2),  is  often 
used  for  the  south;  also  for  the  south  wind  (Ps  78  26; 
Cant  4  16).  (4)  D? ,  yam,  lit.  "sea"  (Ps  107  3). 
(5)  DVVJ,  darom,  etymology  doubtful  (Dt  33  23; 
Ezk  40  24).  (6)  t3TQ ,  midhbar,  lit.  "desert" 
(Ps  75  6,  reading  doubtful). 

(7)  \ty,  lips,  "south  west  wind"  (Acts  27  12). 
(8)  /Aeffr]/j.ppla,  mescmbrla,  lit.  "mid-day";  "south" 
(Acts  8  26);  "noon"  (22  6).  (9)  f6ros,  notos, 
"south  wind"  (Lk  12  55;  Acts  27  13;  28  13); 
"south"  (1  Mace  3  57;  Mt  12  42;  Lk  11  31; 
13  29;  Rev  21  13). 

The  south  wind  is  often  referred  to :  see  Cant  4 
16;  Job  37  9  (cf  9  9);  Zee  9  14  (cf  Isa  21  1); 
Lk  12  55. 


Of  the  passages  where  South  (neghebh)  clearly 
refers  to  a  particular  region  between  Pal  and  Sinai 
see:  "And  Abraham  journeyed,  goitig  on  still 
toward  the  South"  (neghbdh)  (Gen  12  9;  13  1 ; 
Dt  1  7).  We  read  of  "the  South  of  the  Jerahmeel- 
ites,"  "the  South  of  the  Kenites"  (1  S  27  10); 
"the  South  of  the  Cherethites,"  "the  South  of 
Caleb"  (1  S  30  14);  "the  South  of  Judah"  (2  Ch 
28  18);  "Ramoth  of  the  South"  (1  S  30  27). 

In  Ps  126  4,  "Turn  again  our  captivity,  O  Jeh, 
as  the  streams  in  the  South,"  we  have  a  figurative 
reference  to  the  fact  that,  after  a  long  period  of 
drought,  the  dry  watercourses  are  finally  filled  with 
rushing  streams.  The  reference  in  Ezk  20  46  f  to 
"the  forest  of  the  South"  is  to  a  condition  of  things 
very  different  from  that  which  exists  today,  though 
the  region  is  not  incapable  of  supporting  trees  if 
they  are  only  planted  and  protected. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

SOUTH,  CHAMBERS  OF  THE:  The  twelve 
constellations  of  the  Zodiac.  Sec  ASTRONOMY, 
II,  12. 

SOUTH,  QUEEN  OF  THE  (Mt  12  42).  See 
QUEEN  OK  SHEHA. 

SOUTH  RAMOTH.     See  RAMOTH. 
SOUTHEAST.     Sec  NORTHEAST. 
SOW,  sou.     Sec  SWIM-;. 

SOWER,  sd'er,  SOWING,  sd'ing.  SIM-  AGRI- 
CULTURE. 

SPAIN,  span  (2-iravia,  Span  id):  The  country  in 
the  S.\V.  of  Europe  which  st  ill  bears  this  name.  It 
was  Pavd's  purpose,  as  stated  in  Rom  15  24.28, 
to  visit  Spain.  If,  as  is  probable,  he  ultimately 
carried  out  this  intention,  it  must  have  been  after  a 
release  from  his  first  imprisonment.  Clement  of 
Rome  speaks  of  the  apostle  as  having  reached  "the 
extreme  limit  of  the  W."  (Kp.  of  Clem.,  v).  See 
PAUL,  THE  APOSTLE;  TARSHISH. 

SPAN  (P"lT  ,  zerctJi;  <nri8anTJ,  spithame):  A  mea- 
sure of  length  equal  to  half  a  cubit  or  about  9  in. 
(Ex  28  16;  39  9;  IS  17  4,  etc).  Lam  2  20  AV 
is  a  mistranslation;  see  RV.  See  WEIGHTS  AND 
MEASURES. 

SPARK,  spiirk.     See  LEVIATHAN. 

SPARROW,  spar'd    ("VlB?,    eippdr;    o-Tpou0tov, 

strouthion;  Lat  passer):  A  small  bird  of  the 
Fringilliddc,  family.  The  Heb  qippor  seems  to  have 
been  a  generic  name  under  which  were  placed  all 
small  birds  that  frequented  houses  and  gardens. 
The  word  occurs  about  40  t  in  the  Bible,  and  is 
indiscriminately  trd  "bird,"  "fowl"  or  "sparrow." 
Our  translators  have  used  the  word  "sparrow" 
where  they  felt  that  this  bird  best  filled  the  require- 
ments of  the  texts.  Sparrows  are  small  brown 
and  gray  birds  of  friendly  habit  that  swarm  over 
the  northern  part  of  Pal,  and  W.  of  the  Sea  of 
Galilee,  where  the  hills,  plains  and  fertile  fields 
are  scattered  over  with  villages.  They  build  in  the 
vineyards,  orchards  and  bushes  of  the  walled  gardens 
surrounding  houses,  on  the  ground  or  in  nooks  and 
crannies  of  vine-covered  walls.  They  live  on  seeds, 
small  green  buds  and  tiny  insects  and  worms. 
Some  members  of  the  family  sing  musically;  all 
are  great  chatterers  when  about  the  business  of  life. 
Repeatedly  they  are  mentioned  by  Bible  writers, 
but  most  of  the  references  lose  force  as  applyhg 
to  the  bird  family,  because  they  are  trd  "bird" 


2839 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Sound 
Speech 


or  "fowl."  In  a  few  instances  the  word  "sparrow" 
is  used,  and  in  some  of  these,  painstaking  commen- 
tators feel  that  what  is  said  does  not  apply  to  the 
sparrow.  For  example  see  Ps  102  7 : 

"  I  watch,  and  am  become  like  a  sparrow 
That  is  alone  upon  the  housetop." 

The  feeling  that  this  is  not  characterist  ic  of  the  spar- 
row arises  from  the  fact  that  it  is  such  a  friendly 


Sparrow  (F 


bird  that  if  it  were  on  the  housetop  it  would  be 
surrounded  by  half  a  dozen  of  its  kind ;  so  it  has  been 
suggested  that  a  solitary  thrush  was  intended. 
There  is  little  force  in  the  change.  Thrushes  of 
today  are  shy,  timid  birds  of  thickets  and  deep 
undergrowth.  Occasionally  a  stray  one  eomes 
around  a  house  at  migration,  but  once  settled  to  the 
business  of  living  they  are  the  List  and  most  in- 
frequent bird  to  appear  near  the  haunts  of  man. 
And  bird  habits  do  not  change  in  one  or  two  thou- 
sand years.  In  an  overwhelmed  hour  the  Psalmist 
poured  out  his  heart  before  the  Almighty.  The 
reason  he  said  he  was  like  a  "sparrow  that  is  alone 
upon  the  housetop"  was  because  it  is  the  most 
unusual  thing  in  the  world  for  a  sparrow  to  sit 
mourning  alone,  and  therefore  it  attracted  attention 
and  made  a  forceful  comparison.  It  only  happens 
when  the  bird's  mate  has  been  killed  or  its  nest  and 
young  destroyed,  and  this  most  cheerful  of  birds 
sitting  solitary  and  dejected  made  a  deep  impres- 
sion on  the  Psalmist  who,  when  his  hour  of  trouble 
came,  said  he  was  like  the  mourning  sparrow — 
alone  on  the  housetop.  Another  exquisite  song 
describes  the  bird  in  its  secure  and  happy  hour: 

"Yea,  the  sparrow  hath  found  nor  a  house. 
And  the  swallow  a  nest  for  herself,  where  she  may 

lay  her  young, 

Even  thine  altars,  O  Jeh  of  hosts. 
My  King,  and  my  God"      (Ps  84  3). 

When  the  mind  of  man  was  young  and  he  looked  on 
the  commonest  acts  of  creatures  around  him  as 
filled  with  mystery,  miracle  and  sign — he  held  in 
superstitious  reverence  any  bird  that  built  on  a 
temple,  because  he  thought  it  meant  that  the  bird 
thus  building  claimed  the  protection  of  God  in  so 
doing.  For  these  reasons  all  temple  builders  were 
so  reverenced  that  authentic  instances  are  given  of 
people  being  put  to  death,  if  they  disturbed  temple 
nests  or  builders.  Because  he  noticed  the  sparrow 
in  joyful  conditions  is  good  reason  why  the  Psalmist 
should  have  been  attracted  by  its  mourning.  There 
is  a  reference  to  the  widespread  distribution  of  these 
birds  in  P'rov  26  2 : 

"As  the    sparrow   in   her   wandering,   as   the   swallow 

in  lw  T  flying, 
So  the  curse  that  is  causeless  alightcth  not." 

Once  settkid  in   a  locution,   no  bird  clings  more 


faithfully  to  its  nest  and  young,  so  this  "wander- 
ing" could  only  mean  that  they  scatter  widely  in 
choosing  locations.  Mt  10  29:  "Are  not  two 
sparrows  sold  for  a  penny?  and  not  one  of  them  shall 
fall  on  the  ground  without  your  Father."  This 
is  a  reference  to  the  common  custom  in  the  East  of 
catching  small  birds,  and  selling  them  to  be  skinned, 
roasted  and  sold  as  lid-bits — a  bird  to  a  mouthful. 
These  lines  no  doubt  are  the  origin  of  the  oft- 
quoted  phrase,  "He;  marks  the  fall  of  the  sparrow." 
!  Then  in  ver  31  comes  this  comforting  assurance: 
"Fear  not  therefore:  ye  are  of  more  value  than 
many  sparrows."  Lk  12  0:  "Are  not  five  sparrows 
sold  for  two  pence?  and  not  one  of  them  is  forgotten 
in  the;  sight,  of  (lod."  This  affirms  the  implication 
of  Mark  that  t  hese  t  iny  birds  were  an  art  icle  of  com- 
merce in  the  days  of  Jesus,  just  as  they  are  now  in 
the  Far  East.  GENE  STRATTON-PORTER 

SPARTA,  spar'ta,  SPARTANS,  spiir'tanz 
(Sir6.pTr\,  Spdrte  [1  Mace  14  16],  SirapTtarai,  (Spar- 
tidtai;  Lacedaemonians  [AV  1  Mace  12  2.5.0.10. 
21;  14  20-23;  15  2:5;  in  2  Mace  6  9,  Gr  Lakcdai- 
monioi]):  The  passages  in  1  Mace  relate  to  a 
correspondence  initiated  by  Jonathan,  the  priest, 
during  the  Maccabean  revolt,  and  continued  after 
his  death  with  his  brother  Simon,  between  the  Jews 
and  the  Lacedaemonians  or  Spart  ans,  wit  h  a  view  to 
a  friendly  alliance.  The  proposals,  curiously  based 
.  on  a  claim  to  kindredship,  were  favorably  received 
by  the  Lacedaemonians.  See  the  letters  (1  Mace 
12  Sff.lOff;  14  10  IT).  The  claim  to  blood-rela- 
tionship (cf  1  Mace  12  21;  2  Mace  6  9)  is  of 
course  absurd,  but  there  is  no  good  reason  to  doubt 
the  genuineness  of  the  transaction  described.  See 
ARIUS;  ASMONEAXS;  LACEDAEMONIANS;  MACCA- 
BEANS,  etc.  JAMES  ORR 

SPEAKING,  spe'king,  EVIL.  See  EVIL-SPEAK- 
IXG;  SLANDER. 

SPEAR,  sper,  SPEARMEN,  spcr'mcn.  See 
ARMOR,  III,  4;  ARMY,  7. 

SPECIALLY,  spesh'al-i  (IStt ,  mf'wlh  [Ps  31  11 
AV];  (xaXio-Ta,  mulista) :  Used  in  an  emphatic  sense; 
derived  from  a  superlative.  While  usually  em- 
ployed for  emphasis,  it  carries  with  it  slightly  the 
idea  of  something  additional.  Not  used  in  the  OT 
in  RV,  the  sense  of  the  Heb  being  expressed  more 
clearly  by  "exceedingly,"  "very."  Its  ordinary 
NT  usage  is,  "mostly,"  "particularly,"  "chiefly" 
or,  "most  of  all."  Paul  in  his  practical  exhortations 
says:  "I?ut  if  any  provideth  not  for  his  own,  and 
specially  his  own  household,  he  hath  denied  the 
faith"  (1  Tim  5  8;  cf  Gal  6  10;  1  Tim  4  10). 
WALTER  G.  CLIPPINGER 

SPECKLED,  spek'l'd:  Zee  1  8;  HV  "sorrel." 
See  COLORS;  HYENA. 

SPECTACLE,  spek'ta-k'l  (Marpov,  theatron): 
Occurs  twice  in  the  NT:  (1)  of  the  place  where 
assemblies  or  exhibitions  were  held  (Acts  19  29, 
"theatre");  (2)  figuratively  of  the  suffering  apostles 
(1  Cor  4  9). 

SPEECH,  spech  (PHES ,  'imrah,  W ,  dahhar, 
etc;  \6-yos,  logos) :  "Speech,"  the  articulate  utterance 
of  thought,  is  the  tr  of  various  Heb  terms  which 
convey  this  idea  of  "saying"  or  "word";  so,  in  the 
NT,  the  term  generally  so  rendered  is  logos,  "word." 
See  Locos;  WORD.  Eulixfia  in  Rom  16  18  is 
"fair  speech";  laltil  in  Mt  26  73;  Mk  14  70  AV; 
Jn  8  43  is  simply  "talk."  RV  has  "speech"  for 
various  other  words  in  AV,  as  "matters"  (1  S  16 
18,  m  "business"),  "communication"  (Mt  6  37; 


Spelt 
Spirit 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2840 


Kph  4  2<>),     "words"     (Lk  20  20;      1  Cor  14  9); 
"persuasiveness   of   speech"   for   "enticing   words 
(Col  2  4),    etc.  W-  L-  WALKER 

SPELT,  spelt  (riT2C2  ,  kit.^emeth;  oXvpa,  Mum, 
Sea,  -/-a  [Kx  9  32,  AV  ''rye";  Isa  28  25,  AV  "rye,;' 
in  "spelt";  Kzk  4  <),  AV  "niches,"  HI  ^  spelt  j 
RV  adopts  "spelt,"  influenced  by  LXX,  in  all 
passages]):  Spelt  is  the,  seed  of  Triticum  spella  a 
kind  of  wild  wheat .  Several  writers  would  identity 
this  kuxxctneth  with  the  Arab,  kirsenneh  (Vicia 
(  rrili(i'),  a  kind  of  vetch  much  used  as  camels'  fodder. 

SPICE,  spis,  SPICES,  spi'sis,  -sez: 

(1)  (Zt'2,  besem.  [Kx  30  23],  CTS3,  bosem,  pi. 
D"I')2T153 ,  b'xdml/n,  all  from  root,  "to  attract  by 
desire,"  esp •  by  smell  j :  The  list  of  spices  in  Kx  30  23 
includes  myrrh,  cinnamon,  "sweet  calamus  and 
cassia."  These,  mixed  with  olive  oil,  made  the 
"holy  anointing  oil."  Officials  of  the  temple  had 
charge  of  the  spices  (1  Ch  9  29).  Among  the 
treasures  of  the  temple  shown  by  Hezekiah  to  the 
messengers  of  Babylon  were  the  spices  (2  K  20  13). 
They  were  used  in  the  obsequies  of  kings  (2  Ch  16 
14)  and  in  preparation  of  a  bride  for  a  royal  marriage 
(Est  2  12,  "sweet -odors"  =balsam).  Spices  are  fre- 
quently mentioned  in  Cant  (4  10.14. Hi;  5  1,  m 
and  AV  "balsam";  5  13;  6  2,  "bed  of  spices, 
m  "balsam";  8  14).  These  passages  in  Cant  may 
refer  in  particular  to  balsam,  the  product  of  the 
balsam  plant,  Bolsamodendron  opobalsamum,  aplsnt 
growing  in  Arabia.  According  to  Jos  it  was  cul- 
tivated at.  Jericho,  the  plant  having  been  brought  to 
Pal  by  the  Queen  of  Sheba  (Ant,  VIII,  vi,  (5;  see  also 
XlV.'iv,  1  ;  XV,  iv,  2;  B.I,  I,  vi,  (>).  See  MYKRH. 

(2)  (-n^?v  ,  Mtninlni  [Ex  30  34,  "sweet  spices"]): 
"Take  unto  thee  sweet   spices,  si  act  e,  and  onycha, 
and   galbanum;     sweet    spices   with    pure    frankin- 
cense."    It  is  a  general  term  for  fragrant  substances 
finely     powdered.      Cf     Aral).      *^i ,      ulinnnn,     "a 

smell"  or  "sense   of   smell";    generally  fr'1  "sweet 
incense"     (Ex  25  <>;     30  7;      31   1 1 ;     35  S.  15.28; 

39  38-    40  27  [AV  only];    Lev  4  7;    16  12;    Nu  4 
10;    2  Ch  2  4  [AV  only];    13  11).     In  Ex  37  20; 

40  27;    2  Ch  2  4,   we  have  S^EO   ^"p]?  ,  k'tordh 
§ammim,  "incense  of  sweet  spices." 

(3)  (ntioy,nekhd'th;  0vfj.idfj.ara,  thumidmata  [Gen 
37  25,  "spicery,"  m  "gum  tragacanth  or  storax"] 
6vfj.iafj.a,    thiimlanid,    "incense"    [43    11,   "spicery"; 
some    Or  versions   and   the  Vulg  have  "storax"]) : 
Storax  is  the  dried   gum  of   the  beautiful  Sti/rax 
officinalis    (see   POPLAR),    which    was    nsecl   as  in- 
cense—a  different   article   from   that  now  passing 
under  thai  name.     Tragacanth  is  the  resinous  gum 
of  several  species  of  milk  vetch  (NX).  Leguminosae), 
esp.  of  the  Astragalus  gummifer.     LXX  "incense" 
is  probably  the  best  tr. 

(4)  (^p."},  rekah,  "spiced"  wine  [Cant  82]).    See 
WINE. 

(5)  (dpufj-a.  aroma,  "spices"  [Mk  16  1,  A\   "sweet 
spices";     Lk  23  50;     24  1;     .In  19  40;    in    ver   30 
defined  as  a  mixture  of   aloes   and   myrrh]).     See 
PERFUMES;    BURIAL. 

(6)  (Afjuo^ov,    dmomon     [Rev    18    13],    m   "amo- 
mum";  AV  "odours"):  The  Gr  means  "blameless," 
and  it  was  apparently  applied  in  classical  times  to 
any  sweet  and  fine  odor.     In  modern  botany  the 
name    Amomum  is  given  to  a  genus  in  the  NX). 
Zinuiberdceae.      The    well-known    cardamon    seeds 
(Amomum  cardamomum)  and  the  A.  grand  Paradisi 
which  yields  the  well-known  "grains  of  Paradise," 
used   as  a  stimulant,   both  belong  to   this  genus. 
What  was  the  substance  indicated  in  Rev  18  13 
is  quite  uncertain.  E.  W.  C.  MASTERMAN 


SPIDER,     spl'der    ([1]    E"Q2!?  ,    'akkabhish;    cf 

Arab.    c-?«^-*-c->    *ankabut,   EV   "spider";    LXX 
i,  ardchnc  [Job  8  14;    Isa  59  5];    [2] 


s'munillfi,  "lizard,"  AV  "spider";  LXX 

kaldbolf's  [Prov  30  28]):    S'mamlth  of    Prov  30  28 


is  probably  the  gecko,  a  kind  of  lizard,  as  LXX  and 
RV  have  it.  See  LIZARD.  In  Jot)  8  14thespiders 
wet)  is  an  emblem  of  frailty:  "Whose  confidence 
shall  break  in  sunder,  and  whose  trust  is  a  spider's 
web."  Frailty  or  futility  seems  to  be  indicated 
also  in  Isa  59  5.(i:  "They  hatch  adders'  eggs,  and 
weave  the  spider's  web:  .  .  .  .  Their  webs  shall 
not  become  garments,  neither  shall  they  cover  them- 
selves with  their  works."  "Spider's  web"  is  in 
Job  8  14  bcth  "akkabhlsh,  "spider's  house,"  while 
in  Isa  59  5  it  is  kiirc  *akkabhlsh,  "^p ,  kur, 
according  to  BOB,  being  "thread"  or  "film." 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

SPIKENARD,  spik'nard  (1^: ,  nerd; 
ndrdos  [Cant  1  12; 
4  14];  C"1"^:,  nr  ra- 
il him;  vdp8oi,  tuiriloi: 
[Cant  4  13[,  "spike- 
nard plants";  vdp5os 
irierriKTi,  ndrdos  pistikt 
[Mk  14  3;  Jn  12  3], 
"pure  nard,"  m  "liquid 
nard";  the  Eng.  word 
is  for  "spiked  nard," 
which  comes  from  the 
Nardus  spicatus  of  the 
Vulg):  Spikenard  is 
the  plant  Nardostachys 
jdlamansi  (NX).  Va- 
Icrianaceac)',  in  Arab, 
the  name  Sunbul  hind, 
"Indian  spike,"  refers, 
like  the  Eng.  and  Lat 
name,  to  the  "spike"- 
like  shape  of  the  plant 
from  which  the  per- 
fume comes.  The  dried 
plant  as  sold  consists 
of  the  "withered  stalks 
and  ribs  of  leaves  co- 
hering in  a  bundle  of 
yellowish-brown  cap- 
illary fibres  and  con- 
sist ing  of  a  spike  about 
the  size  of  a  small 
finger"  (Sir  W.  Jones, 
As.  Res.,  II,  400);  in 
appearance  the  whole  Nard. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Spelt 
Spirit 


pl;mt  is  said  to  look  like  the  tail  of  an  ermine.  It 
grows  in  the  Himalayas.  The  extracted  perfume  is 
an  oil,  \vhich  was  used  by  the  Romans  for  anoint- 
ing Ihe  head.  Its  great  costliness  is  mentioned  by 
Pliny. 

With  regard  to  (lie  exact  meaning  of  the  TTKTTI/C??, 
/j/.sV/A'r,  in  the  NT.  there  is  much  difference  of 
opinion:  "pure"'  and  "liquid"'  are  both  given  in  m, 
but  it  has  also  been  suggested  among  oilier  things 
that  this  \vas  a  local  name,  that  it  comes  from 
the  Lat  apicild  or  from  pi'siti],  the  Sanskrit  name  of 
(he  spikenard  plant.  The  question  is  an  open  one: 
either  "genuine"  or  "pure"  is  favored  by  most  com- 
mentators. E.  W.  (!.  MASTKKMAX 

SPINDLE,  spin'd'l.     See  SIMNMXC. 

SPINNING,  spin'ing:  Although  spinning  must 
have  been  one  of  the  commonest  of  the  crafts  in 
Bible  times,  it  is  mentioned  definitely  in  three  pas- 


sages only,  namely,  Ex  35  2.~>  f ,  where  TV"  ,  tu.ir<i.h. 
is  so  tr1',  and  in  Alt  6  2S;  Lk  12  27  (>/X'«", 
i/ftlti-in),  where  Jesus  refers  to  the  lilies  of  the  field 
as  neither  toiling  nor  spinning. 

The  materials  commonly  spun  were  flax,  cotton, 
wool,  goats'  hair.  Goats'  hair  required  little  prep- 
aration other  than  washing,  before  spinning.  Wool 
was  first  cleansed  and  then  carded.  The  present 
method  of  carding,  which  no  doubt  is  of  ancient 
origin,  is  to  pile  the  wool  on  a  mat  and  then  detach 
the  fibers  from  each  other  by  snapping  a  bow-string 
against  the  pile.  The  bow  is  specially  constructed 
and  carefully  balanced  so  that  it  can  be  easily  held 
with  one  hand  while  with  the  other  the  string  is 
struck  with  a  pestle-shaped  mallet,  like  a  carver's 
mallet.  The  same  instrument  is  used  for  carding 
cotton. 

Flax  was  treated  anciently  as  today,  if  the  Egyp 
sculptures  have  been  rightly  interpreted.  The 
stalks  after  being  stripped  of  their  seeds  were  first 
retted.  This  operation  consisted  in  soaking  the 
stems  in  water  until  fermentation  or  rotting  had 
so  loosened  the  fibers  that  they  could  be  separated 
from  each  other  by  combing.  A  series  of  washings 
and  long  exposure  to  the  weather  finally  produced 
what  was  termed  snowy-white  linen. 


The  various  fibers,  mentioned  above,  to  be  made 
into  thread,  were  gathered  into  a  loose  rope  which 
was  wound  around  a  distaff  or  about  the  left  hand. 
From  this  reel  it  was  unwound  as  needed,  the  fibers 
more  carefully  adjust  ed  with  UK;  thumbs  and  two 
first  fingers  of  bot  h  hands,  and  t  hen  t  he  rope  t  wisted 
by  means  of  a  spindle.  The  spindle  varied  in  form 
but  was  always  a  shaft,  S  to  12  in.  in  length,  pro- 
vided at  one  end  with  a  hook  or  other  means  of 
fastening  the  thread  and  at  the  other  end  with  a 
circular  wharve  or  whorl  of  stone  or  other  heavy 
material  to  give  moment  um  to  the  rotating  spindle. 
When  2  or  3  ft.  of  the  rope  was  prepared  as  men- 
t  ioned  above,  the  spindle  was  twilled  with  the  right 
hand  or  laid  on  the  thigh  and  rotated  by  passing 
the  hand  over  the  shaft.  After  the  thread  was 
twisted  it  was  wound  on  the  spindle,  fastened,  and 
a  new  portion  of  rope  prepared  and  twisted.  The 
rope  was  sometimes  fastened  to  a  post  and  the 
spindle  twisted  with  both  hands,  in  which  case 
the  whorl  was  not  necessary  (see  Wilkinson,  Anc. 
Egypt,  I,  317;  II,  170,  172).  '  Spinning  was  the  work 
of  both  men  and  women  in  ancient  Egypt.  The 
Bible  characterizes  it  as  the  work  of  women  (Ex 
35;  Prov  31  19).  The1  same  method  of  spinning  is 
still  used  by  the  women  of  Syria,  although  imported 
yarn  is  largely  taking  the  place  of  homespun  thread 
(see  DISTAFF).  JA.MKS  A.  PATCH 


SPIRIT,    spir'it 
Lat 


(LI"""  , 


irvevjia, 


1.  Primary  and  Figurative  Senses 
(  1)   As  Wind,  JJreath 

(2)  As  Anger  or  Fury 

(3)  As  Mental  and  Moral  Qualities  in  Man 

2.  Shades  of  Meaning 

(1)  As  Life-Principle 

(2)  As  Surviving  Death 

(3)  Spiritual  Manifestations 
'!.   Human  and  Divine  Spirit 

(1)  The  Human  as  Related  with  the  Divine 

(2)  Operations  of  the   Divine  Spirit  as  Third  Person 
of  the  Trinity 

1.   OT  Applications 

">.  Various  Interpretations 

(1)  Used  primarily  in   the  OT  and   NT  of  the 

iciiul,  as  in  Gen  8  1;    Nu  11  31;    Am  4  13  ("crc- 

ateth    the    wind");     He  1  7    (angels, 

1.  Primary    "spirits"    or    ''winds"    in    m);     often 
and  Figura-  used   of   the   hrcntli,  as  in  Job  12   10; 
tive  Senses   15  30,    and    in    2  Thess  2  8    (wicked 

consumed  by  "the  breath  of  his 
mouth"').  (2)  In  a  figurative  sense  it  was  used  as 
indicating  finger  or  fury,  and  as  such  applied  even  to 
God,  who  destroys  by  the  ''breath  of  his  nostrils" 
(Job  4  9;  Ex  15  S;  2  S  22  16;  see  2  Thess  2  8). 
(3)  Hence  applied  to  man  —  as  being  the  seat  of 
emotion  in  desire  or  trouble,  and  thus  gradually  of 
mental  and  moral  qualities  in  general  (Ex  28  3, 
''the  spirit  of  wisdom";  Ezk  11  19,  "a  new  spirit," 
etc).  Where  man  is  deeply  stirred  by  the  Divine 
Spirit,  _as  among  the  prophets,  we  have  a  some- 
what similar  use  of  the  word,  in  such  expressions 
as:  "The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  ....  upon  him" 
(1  S  10  10). 

(1)  The  spirit  as  life-principle  in  man  has  various 

applications:    sometimes  to  denote  an  apparition 

(Mt  14  20,  AV  "saying,  It  is  a  spirit"; 

2.  Shades      Lk  24  37,  AV  "had  seen   a  spirit"); 
of  Meaning  sometimes  to  denote  angels,  both  fallen 

and  unfallen  (He  1  14,  "ministering 
spirits";  Mt  10  1,  "unclean  spirits";  cf  also  12 
43;  Mk  1  23.2fi.27;  and  in  Rev  1  4,  "the  seven 
Spirits  ....  before  his  throne").  (2)  The  spirit  is 
thus  in  man  the  principle  of  lift  —  but  of  man  as 
distinguished  from  the  brute  —  so  that  in  death  this 
spirit  is  yielded  to  the  Lord  (Lk  23  40;  Acts  7  59; 
1  Cor  5  5,  "that  the  spirit  may  be  saved")-  Hence 
God  is  called  the  "Father  of  spirits"  (He  12  9). 


Spirit 
Spiritual  Gifts 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2842 


(3)  Thus  generally  for  all  the  manifestations  of  the 
spirit  iiiil  part  in  "man,  as  that,  which  thinks,  feels, 
wills;  and  also   to  denote  certain  qualities  which 
characterize  the  man,  e.g.  "poor  in  spirit"  (Mt  5  3); 
"spirit    of   gentleness"    (Gal  6  1);    "of    bondage 
(Rom  8  15);  "of  jealousy"    (Nu  6  14);  "of  fear 
(2  Tim  1  7  AV);      of    slumber"   (Rom  11  8  AV). 
Hence  we  arc  called   upon  to  "rule  over  our  own 
spirit"  (Prov  16  82;    25  28),  and  are  warned  against 
being  overmastered  by  a  wrong  spirit  (Lk  9  oo  A\  , 
"Ye  know  not  what   manner  of  spirit  ye  are  of 
So  man  may  submit  to  the  "spirit,  of  error,     and 
turn  away  from  the  "spirit   <>f  truth     (1  Jn  4  (>). 
Thus  we  read  of  the  "spirit  of  counsel     Jsa  11  A) ; 
"of  wisdom"  (Eph  1  17). 

(1)  We  go  a  step  higher  when  we  find  the  human 
spirit   brought   into   relationship   with   the   Divine 

Spirit.  For  man  is  but,  a  creature  to 
3.  Human  whom  life  has  been  imparted  by  God's 
and  Divine  spirit—  life,  being  but  a  resultant  of 
Spirit  God's  breath.  Thus  life  and  death 

arc  realistically  described  as  an  impart- 
ing or  a  withdrawing  of  God's  breath,  as  in  Job  27 
8;  33  4;  34  14,  "spirit  and  breath"  going  together. 
The  spirit  may  thus  be.  "revived"  (Gen  45  27), 
,,r  "overwhelmed"  (Ps  143  4),  or  "broken  (Prov 
15  18).  And  where  sin  has  been  keenly  felt,  it  is 
"a  broken  spirit"  which  is  "a  sacrifice  to  God 
(Ps  51  17);  and  when  man  submits  to  the  power 
of  sin,  a  new  direction  is  given  to  his  mind:  he 
comes  under  a  "spirit  of  whoredom"  (Hos  4  I1 
he  becomes  "proud  in  spirit."  (Eccl  7  8),  instead 
of  being  "patient  in  spirit";  he  is  a  fool  because 
he  is  "hasty  in  spirit"  and  gives  way  to  "anger 
(Keel  7  <.>).  The  "faithful  in  spirit"  are  the  men 
who  resist  talebearing  and  backbiting  in  the  world 
(Prov  11  18).  In  such  instances  as  these  the  differ- 
ence between  "soul"  and  "spirit"  appears.  See 
SOUL;  PSYCHOLOGY. 

(2)  On  this  lusher  piano,  too.  we  find  the  Divine  Spirit 
at  work.     The  terminology  is  very  varied  here:    In  the 
NT  wo  read  of  the  "Holy  Spirit      (1   Cor  6  19;    Mt  1 
is  20-    1  Thess  1  5.c»;    the  " Spirit  of  God      (1  Cor  2 
lo'lT;   3  l«;   Horn  8  9.11;   Eph  3  !(>.  otcj;   the  "Spirit 
of    Christ"     (Horn  8  9;     1  Cor  3  17;      Gal  4  6):     or 
sirnpl  v  of  "  Spirit,"  with  distinct  reference  to  God  (1   Cor 
2   10;    Koni  8   10.23,  etc).     Ciod    Himself  is   Spirit   (Jn 
4  '>•!)       Hence  God's  power  is  manifested  in  human  mo 
and  character   (Lk  4   14;     Rom  1    1;     1   Cor  2  4;    esp. 
I  k  24  4'M       The    Book    of    Acts    may    bo    termed    the 
Hook  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  working  with  power  m  man. 
This  Spirit  is  placed  on  a  level  with  Father  and  Son  in 
the  Apostolic  Benediction    (2  Cor  13  14)    and  in  the 
parting  message  (if  the  Saviour  to  His  disciples  (Mt  28 
19)        \s    the    asent   in    redemption    and    sanctitication 
}jis  work  is  glorified  by  lives   "renewed"   in  the  very 
"spirit:  of  the  mind" — a  collocation  of  terms  which  has 
puzzled  many  interpreters  (Kph  4  23.  24),  where  pneuma 
and  noiis  appear  together,  to  indicate  a  renewal  which  is 
all-embracing,  'renewed  in  the  spirit  of    your  mind,  so 
that  the  new  mail  is  put  on,  created  in  righteousness  and 
true   holiness'     (see   also   Jn  14  17.20;     15  20;     Ib   l.i; 
1  Cor  12  11,  etc). 

In  the  OT  this  spirit  of  God  appears  in  varied  functions, 
as    brooding    over    chaos    (Gen  1   2;     Job  26  13);     as 

descending  upon  men,  on  heroes  like. 
.,  r»T  Otliniel,  Gideon,  etc  (Jgs  3  10;  6  84), 

*•  c  on    prophets     (K/.k  37   1),    on    ''cunning 

Applications  workmen,"  like  Bezalel  and  Ahohab   (Ex 

31  2.3.4,  "filled  with  the  Spirit  of  God"), 
and  specially  in  such  passages  as  Ps  51  11,  where  the 
very  presence  of  God  is  indicated  by  an  abiding  influence 
of  the  Holy  Spirit:  "The  Spirit  of  Jell  is  Jen  himself. 

May  we  not  reach  a  still  higher  stage  ?     Wendt  in  his 
interesting   monograph    (Die  Begriffc  FleiKch   unfl  Geist), 

of  which  extracts  are  given  in  Dickson  s 
K  Various  «S7.  Paul's  Use  of  the  Terms  Flesh  and 

Spirit  draws  attention  to  the  transcendental 
Interpreta-  infiuonce  of  the  Divine  ru*h  in  the  OT  as 
tions  expressed  in  such  phrases  as  'to  put  on' 

(Jgs  6  34),  'to  fall  upon'  (14  G.I 9),  'to 
settle'  (Nu  11  25  f).  May  we  not  then  rightly  assume 
that  more  is  meant  than  a  mere  influence  emanating 
from  a  personal  God?  Arc  wo  not  right  in  maintain- 
ing with  Davidson  that  "there  are  indeed  a  considerable 
number  of  passages  in  the  OT  which  might  very  well 
express  the  idea  that  the  Spirit  is  a  distinct  hypostasis 
or  person"  °  (see  SUBSTANCE).  Rejecting  the  well-known 


passage  in  Gen:  "  Let  us  make  man  after  our  own  image," 
which  some  have  interpreted  in  a  trinitarian  sense,  we 
may  point  to  such  texts  as  Zee  4  6,  "by  my  Spirit"; 
Isa  63  10.11,  "They  rebelled,  and  grieved  his  holy 
Spirit"-  "Where  is  he  that  put  his  holy  Spirit  in  the 
midst  of  them  ?"  This  is  borne  out  by  the  NT,  with  its 
warnings  against  "grieving  the  Holy  Spirit,"  ''lying 
a-'ainst  the  Holy  Spirit,"  and  kindred  expressions  (hpn  4 
30;  Acts  5  3).  It  is  this  Spirit  which  "  boareth  witness 
with  our  spirit,  that  we  are  children  of  God  "  (Rom  8  16) 
— the  spirit  which,  as  Auberlen  has  put  it  (I'RE^,  art. 
"Geist  des  Menschen"),  "appears  in  a  double  relation- 
ship to  us,  as  the  principle  of  natural  life,  which  is  ours 
bv  birth,  and  that  of  spiritual  life,  which  we  receive 
through  the  new  birth  (Wiederge.burt)."  Hence  Paul 
speaks  of  God  whom  he  serves  "with  his  spirit,  (Rom  1 
9);  and  in  2  Tim  1  3  he  speaks  of  serving  God  "in  a 
pure  conscience."  See  CONSCIENCE;  FLESH;  HOLY 
Si'iurr;  PSYCHOLOGY;  SOUL. 

J.   I.  MAHAIS 

SPIRIT,     EVIL.     See     SATAN;      DIOMON,      DE- 
MONIAC. 

SPIRIT,     FAMILIAR.     See     FAMILIAR     SPIRIT; 
DIVINATION;  PYTHON. 

SPIRIT,  HOLY.     See  HOLY  SPIRIT. 

SPIRIT  OF  DIVINATION.     See  DIVINATION. 

SPIRIT,  UNCLEAN  (OR  EVIL).     See  DEMON, 
DEMONIAC. 

SPIRITS,  DISCERNINGS  OF.     See  DISCERN- 
INCJS  OF  SPIRITS;   SPIRITUAL  GIFTS. 

SPIRITS  IN  PRISON.     Sec  PRISON,  SPIRITS  IN. 

SPIRITUAL,  spir'it-u-al  (irvei^aTiKos,  pncinua- 
f/AV/.s-,  "spiritual,"  from  irvev|Aa,  pneuma,  "spirit"'): 
Endowed  with  the  attributes  of  spirit.  Any  being 
made  in  the  image  of  God  who  is  a  Spirit  (Jn  4  24) 
and  thus  having  the  nature  of  .spirit,  is  a  spiritual 
being. 

(1)  Spiritual  hosts  of  wickedness  (Eph  6  12),  in 
distinction  from  beings  clothed  in  ''flesh  and  blood' 
— the  devil  and  his  angels.     This  use  of  the  word 
has  reference  to  nature,  essence,  and  not  to  character 
or  moral  quality.     God,  angels,  man,  devil,  demons 
are    in    essence    spiritual.     The    groundwork    and 
faculties  of  their  rational  and  moral  being  are  the 
same.     This  limited  use  of  the  word  in  the  NT  has 
its  advb.  equivalent  in  Rev  11  8,  ''which  [the  great 
and    wicked    city]    spiritually    is    called    Sodom. 
As  the  comprehensive  term  moral  includes  immoral, 
so  spiritual  includes  unspiritual  and  all  that  per- 
tains to  spirit. 

(2)  With  the  above  exception,  "spiritual"  in  the 
NT  signifies  moral,  not  physical  antithesis:   an  es- 
sence springing  from  the  Spirit  of  God  and  imparted 
to  the  spirit  of  man.     Hence  spiritual  in  this  sense 
always  presupposes  the  infusion  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
to  quicken,  and  inform.     It  isopposed  (a)  to  capKiKfo, 
sarkikos,  "fleshly"  (1  Cor  3  1),  men  of  the  flesh  and 
not  of  the  spirit;    (6)  to  ^X'*6*,  psuchikos,_  "natu- 
ral "    man  in  whom  the  pnciima,  "spirit,"  is  over- 
ridden, because  of  the  Fall,  by  psucht,  the  principle 
of  the  animal  life,   "soul";    hence  the  unrcnewed 
man,  unspiritual,  alienated  from  the  life  of  God 
(1  Cor  2  14;     2  Pet  2  12;     Jude    ver    10).     See 
MAN,  NATURAL;  (c)  to  natural,  meaning  physical, 
"    ...  sown     a     natural     body;  ....  raised     a 
spiritual  body"  (1  Cor  15  44). 

(3)  In  the  NT  and  general  use  "spiritual"  thus 
indicates    man    regenerated,   indwelt,   enlightened, 
endued,   empowered,   guided   by   the  Holy  Spirit; 
conformed  to  the  will  of  God,  having  the  mind  of 
Christ,  living  in  and  led  by  the  Spirit.     The  spiritual 
man  is  a  new  creation  born  from  above  (Rom  8 
G;  1  Cor  2  15;  3  1;  14  37;  Col  1  9;  1  Pet  2  5). 

(4)  Ecclesiastically    used    of    things    sacred    or 


2843 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Spirit 
Spiritual  Gifts 


religious,  as  spiritual  authority,  spiritual  assembly, 
spiritual  office.     See  SPIRIT.    DWIGHT  M.  PRATT 

SPIRITUAL  BLESSING  (c^Xo^a  -n-vev^aTiKifi, 
cidoy'ia  pneumatikt);  Any  blessing  administered  in 
the  realm  of  the  spiritual  life;  specifically  the 
blessing  of  the  Spirit  in  introducing  the  believer  into 
"the  heavenly  places  in  Christ''  (Eph  1  3);  a  term 
expressing  the  fulness  of  blessing  in  Clod's  gift  of 
eternal  life  in  Jesus  Christ. 

SPIRITUAL  BODY  (o-ojp.a  irv€V|i,aTi.K6v,  sonia 
pneumatikon,  "body  spiritual"):  The  resurrection- 
body,  a  body  fitted  to  the  capacities  and  wants  of  1  he 
spirit  in  the  celestial  world;  an  organism  conformed 
to  the  spiritual  life  at  the  resurrection  (see  1  Cor 
16  44).  See  BODY,  SPIRITUAL. 


SPIRITUAL  DRINK  (irvevfiariKov  iro\i.a.,  pneu- 
matikon poina):  Having  a  spiritual  significance, 
as  referring  to  the  water  that  flowed  miraculously 
from  the  smitten  rock  (1  Cor  10  4;  Nu  20  11). 
Symbolic  also  of  nourishment  for  the  thirsty  soul  in 
the  sacramental  cup  and  the  outpoured  blood  (life) 
of  Christ.  See  ROCK,  2,  (1);  SPIRITUAL  ROCK. 

SPIRITUAL     GIFTS     (\a.pL<r\i.ara.,     charismata): 

1.  Gifts  Connected  with  the  Ministry  of  the  Word 

(1)  Apostleship 

(2)  Prophecy 

(3)  Discernings  of  Spirits 

(4)  Teaching 

(5)  The  Word  of  Knowledge 

(6)  The  Word  of  Wisdom 

(7)  Kinds  of  Tongues 

(8)  Interpretation  of  Tongues 

2.  Gifts    Connected    with    the     Ministry    of    Practical 
Service 

(1)  Workings  of  Miracles 

(2)  Gifts  of  Healings 

(3)  Ruling,  Governments 

(4)  Helps 
LITERATURE 

The  word  charisma,  with  a  single  exception  (1  Pet 
4  10),  occurs  in  the  NT  only  in  the  Pauline  Epp., 
and  in  the  pi.  form  is  employed  in  a  technical  sense 
to  denote  extraordinary  gifts  of  the  Spirit  bestowed 
upon  Christians  to  equip  them  for  the  service  of  the 
church.  Various  lists  of  the  charismata  are  given 
(Rom  12  6-8;  1  Cor  12  4-11.28-30;  cf  Eph  4 
7-12),  none  of  which,  it  is  evident,  are  exhaustive. 
Some  of  the  gifts  enumerated  cannot  be  said  to 
belong  in  any  peculiar  sense  to  the  distinctive  cate- 
gory. "Faith"  (1  Cor  12  9),  for  example,  is  the 
essential  condition  of  all  Christian  life;  though 
there  wrere,  no  doubt,  those  who  were  endowed  with 
faith  beyond  their  fellows.  "Giving"  and  "mercy" 
(Rom  12  8)  are  among  the  ordinary  graces  of  the 
Christian  character;  though  some  would  possess 
them  more  than  others.  "Ministry"  (Rom  12  7), 
again,  i.e.  service,  was  the  function  to  which  every 
Christian  was  called  and  the  purpose  to  which  every 
one  of  the  special  gifts  was  to  be  devoted  (Eph  412). 
The  term  is  applied  to  any  spiritual  benefit,  as  the 
confirmation  of  Christians  in  the  faith  by  Paul  (Rom 
1  11).  And  as  the  general  function  of  ministry 
appears  from  the  first  in  two  great  forms  as  a  minis- 
try of  word  and  deed  (Acts  61-4;  1  Cor  1  17), 
so  the  peculiar  charismatic  gifts  which  Paul  men- 
tions fall  into  two  great  classes  —  those  which 
qualify  their  possessors  for  a  ministry  of  the  word, 
and  those  which  prepare  them  to  render  services 
of  a  practical  nature. 

(1)  Apostleship  (1  Cor  1228  f;  cf  Eph  411}.— 
The  name  "apostle"  is  used  in  the  NT  in  a  narrower 
and  a  wider  sense.  It  was  the  peculiar  title  and 
privilege  of  the  Twelve  (Mt  10  2;  Lk  6  13;  Acts 
1  25  f),  but  was  claimed  by  Paul  on  special 
grounds  (Rom  1  1;  1  Cor  9  1,  etc);  it  was  prob- 
ably conceded  to  James  the  Lord's  brother  (1  Cor 


15  7;  Gal  1  19),  :md  in  a  freer  use  of  the  term 
is  applied  to  Barnabas  (Acts  14  4.1-1;  cf  1  Cor 

9  f>.(>),  Andronicus  ;md  Junias  (Rom 
1.  Gifts  16  7).  From  the  ])i,ltiH,c.  (xi.4  ff) 

Connected  we  learn  that  the  ministry  of  apostles 
with  Minis-  was  continued  in  the  church  into  the 
try  of  the  sub-apostolic  age  (sec;  LITERATURE, 
Word  SUB-APOSTOLIC).  The  special  gift,  and 

function  of  apostleship,  taken  in  the 
widest,  sense,  was  to  proclaim  the  word  of  the 
gospel  (Acts  6  2;  1  Cor  1  17,  etc),  and  in  par- 
ticular to  proclaim  it  to  the  world  outside  of  the 
church,  whether  Jewish  or  gentile  (Gal  2  7.8).  See 
APOSTLE. 

(2)  Prophecy    (Rom  12  0;     1  Cor  12  10.28.29), 
under  which   may   be   included   exhortation    (Rom 

12  8;    cf  1  Cor  14  3).     The  gift  of  prophecy  was 
bestowed  at  Pentecost  upon  the  church  as  a  whole 
(Acts  2  10  ff),  but  in  particular  measure  upon  cer- 
tain individuals  who  were  distinctively  known  as 
prophets.     Only  a  few  of  the  Christian  prophets  are 
directly  referred  to — Judas  and  Silas  (Acts  16  32), 
the  prophets  at  Antioch   (13  1),   Agabus  and  the 
prophets  from  Jerus  (11  27  f),  the  four  daughters  of 
Philip  the  evangelist   (ver  9).     But   1  Cor  shows 
that  there  were  several  of  them  in  the  Corinthian 
church;    and  probably  they  were  to  be  found  in 
every  Christian  community.     Some  of  them  moved 
about  from  church  to  church  (Acts  11  27  f;  21  10); 
and  in  the  Didnche  we  find  that  even  at  the  celebra- 
tion of  the  Eucharist  the  itinerant   prophet   still 
takes  precedence  of  the  local  ministry  of  bishops 
and  deacons  (Did.,  x.7). 

It  is  evident  that  the  functions  of  the  prophet 
must  sometimes  have  crossed  those  of  the  apostle, 
and  so  we  find  Paul  himself  described  as  a  prophet 
long  after  he  had  been  called  to  the  apostleship  (Acts 

13  1).     And  yet  there  was  a  fundamental  distinc- 
tion.    While  the  apostle,  as  we  have  seen,  was  one 
"sent  forth"  to  the  unbelieving  world,  the  prophet 
was  a  minister  to  the  believing  church  (1  Cor  14 
4.22).    Ordinarily  his  message  was  one  of  "edifica- 
tion,   and    exhortation,    and    consolation"    (1  Cor 

14  3).     Occasionally  he  was  empowered  to  make 
an  authoritative  announcement  of  the  Divine  will  in 
a  particular  case  (Acts  13  1  ff).     In  rare  instances 
we  find  him  uttering  a  prediction  of  a  future  event 
(Acts  11  28;  21  10  f). 

(3)  With  prophecy  must  be  associated  the  dis- 
cernings    of  spirits   (1  Cor  12  10;  14  29;    1  Thess 
5  20  f;  cf  1  Jn  4  1).     The  one  was  a  gift  for  the 
speaker,  the  other   for   those  who  listened   to   his 
words.     The  prophet  claimed  to  be  the  medium  of 
Divine  revelations    (\    Cor  14  30);     and    by   the 
spiritual  discernment  of  his  hearers  the  truth  of  his 
claim  was  to  be  judged  (ver  29).     There  were  false 
prophets  as  well  as  genuine  prophets,  spirits  of  error 
as  well  as  spirits  of  truth  (1  Jn  4  1-0;  cf  2  Thess 
2  2;  Did.,xi).     And  while  prophesyings  were  never 
to  be  despised,  the  utterances  of  the  prophets  were 
to  be  "proved"  (1  Thess  5  20  f),  and  that  in  them 
which   came   from  the    Spirit   of    God    spiritually 
judged   (1  Cor  2  14),   and  so  discriminated  from 
anything  that  might  be  inspired  by  evil  spirits.     See 
DISCERNINGS  OF  SPIRITS. 

(4)  Teaching    (Rom  12  7;     1   Cor  12  28f).—As 
distinguished  from  the  prophet,  who  had  the  gift  of 
uttering  fresh  truths  that  came  to  him  by  way  of 
vision   and   revelation,   the   teacher  was  one   who 
explained   and   applied   established  Christian  doc- 
trine— the   rudiments   and   first   principles   of   the 
oracles  of  God   (He  5  12).     Possibly  (5)  the  word 
of  knowledge    (gnosis)    and    (6)    the    word    of   ivis- 
dom  (sophia)  (1  Cor  12  8)  are  to  be  distinguished, 
the   first    as    the    utterance    of    a    prophetic    and 
ecstatic  intuition,  the   second    as   the   product   of 
study   and  reflective  thought ;    and  so  are  to  be 


Spiritual  Gifts 
Spiritually 


THIO  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2844 


related  respectively  1<>  the  functions  of  the  prophet 
and  the  teacher.     See  TKACHKH,  TEACHING. 

(7)  A'/w/.s     of    tongues     (1   Cor  12  10.3830).- 
What  Paul  means  by  this  he  explains  fully  in  en  14. 
The  gift  was  not  a  "faculty  of  speaking  in  unknown 
foreign    languages,    for    the    tongues    (gldssai)    are 
differentiated    from     the    "voices"     or    languages 
(phonai)    by    which    men   of   one   nation   arc   dis- 
tinguished from  those  of  another  (vs  10.11).     And 
when    the    apostle    says    that     the    speaker    in    an 
unknown  tongue  addressed  himself  to  God  and  not 
to  men  (vs  2.14)  and  was  not  understood  by  those 
who   hoard   him    (ver  2),    that    he   edified    himsel 
(ver  4)  and  vet  lost  the  power  of  conscious  thought 
while  praving  with  the  spirit    (vs   U  f),   it  would 
appear  that,  the  "tongues"  must  have  been  of  the 
nature  of  devout  ejaculations  and  broken  and  dis- 
jointed words,  uttered  almost  unconsciously  under 
tli'.-  stress  of  high  ecstatic  feeling. 

(8)  Parallel  to  this  gift  was  that  of  the  interpre- 
tation  of   tongues    (1  Cor  12  10.30).     It    the    g.tt 
of  tongues  had  been  a  power  of  speaking  unknown 
foreign   languages,    the   interpretation   oi    tongues 
would  necessarily  have  meant  the  faculty  ot  inter- 
preting a  language  unknown  to  the  interpreter;   tor 
tr  from  a  familiar  language  could  hardly  be  described 
B,s  &  charisma.     But  t  he  principle  of  economy  makes 
it  improbable  that  the  edification  of  t  lie  .•Lurch  was 
a-comphshed  in  this  round-about  way  by  means  oi  a 
double   miracle— a   miracle  of   foreign   speech   fol- 
lowed by  a  miracle  of  interpretation. 

Other  hand,  the  gift  of  tongues  was  such  as  has  been 
described,  the  gift,  of  interpretation  would  consist 
in  turning  what  seemed  a  meaningless  utterance 
into  words  easy  to  be  understood  (ver  <)).  1  he 
interpretation  misrht  be  given  by  the  speaker  in 
tongues  himself  (vs  5.13)  after  Ins  mood  oi  ecstasy 
was  over,  as  he  trd  his  exalted  experiences  and 
broken  cries  into  plain  intelligible  language, 
he  lacked  the  power  of  self-interpretation,  the  task 
mi'dit  be  undertaken  by  another  possessed  ot  this 
special  gift  (vs  27.2S).  The.  ability  ot  a  critic, 
gifted  with  sympathy  and  insight  to  interpret  the 
meaning  of  a  picture  or  a  piece,  of  music,  as  the 
ceiiius  who  produced  it  might  be  quite  unable  to 
do  (e  g.  Ruskin  and  Turner),  will  help  us  to  under- 
stand how  the  ecstatic  half-conscious  utterances 
of  one  who  had  the  gift  of  tongues  might  be  put, 
into  clear  and  edifying  form  by  another  who  had  the 
gift  of  interpretation.  See  TONGUES,  <  ,IFT  OF 

(1)  Workings  of  miracles  (/  Cor  12  W.28.29).- 
The  word  used  for  miracles  in  this  chapter  (dima- 
meis  lit.  "powers")  is  employed  m 
2  Gifts  Acts  (8  7.13;  19  11.12)  so  as  to  cover 
Connected  those  cases  of  exorcism  and  the  cure 
with  Prac-  of  disease  which  in  Paul's  list  are  placed 
tical  Service  under  the  separate  category  of  gift 

of  healing."  As  distinguished  from  the 
ordinary  healing  gift,  which  might  be  possessed  by 
persons  not  otherwise  remarkable,  the  powers- 
point  to  a  higher  faculty  more  properly  to  be 
described  as  miraculous,  and  bestowed  only  upon 
certain  leading  men  in  the  church.  In  2  Cor  12 
12  Paul  speaks  of  the  "powers"  he  wrought  in 
Corinth  as  among  "the  signs  of  an  apostle.  In 
He  2  4  the  writer  mentions  the  "manifold  powers 
of  the  apostolic  circle  as  part  of  the  Divine  con- 
firmation of  their  testimony.  In  Rom  15  18  ff  Paul 
refers  to  his  miraculous  gifts  a.s  an  instrument 
which  Christ  used  for  the  furtherance  of  the  gospel 
and  the  bringing  of  the  Gentiles  to  obedience.  The 
working  of  "powers,"  accordingly,  was  a  gift  which 
linked  itself  to  the  ministry  of  the  word  in  respect 
of  its  bearing  upon  the  truth  of  the  gospel  and  the 
mission  of  the  apostle  to  declare  it.  And  yet,  like 
the  wider  and  lower  gift,  of  healing,  it  must  be 
regarded  primarily  as  a  gift  of  practical  beneficence, 


and  emly  secondarily  as  a  means  of  confirming  the 
ruth  and  authenticating  its  messenger  by  way  of  a 
<ign.  The1  Book  of  Acts  gives  several  examples  of 
•pe>wcTs"  that  are  different  from  ordinary  healings. 
The  raising  of  Dorcas  (9  30  ff)  and  of  Kutychus 
(20  <)  IT)  clearly  belong  to  this  higher  class,  and  also, 
perhaps,  such  remarkable  cures  as  those1  of  the1  life-- 
long cripple1  at  the  Temple  gate  (3  1  IT)  and  Aeneas 
of  Lvelda(9  32  IT). 

(2)  (,'ij'tx    of    hailing*    (1   Cor  12  9.8830).— See 
HEALINC,  GIFTS  OF. 

(3)  Hiding    (Itom  12  8'),  governments   (1   Cor  12 
2S).  —These  were  gifts  of  wise1  counsel  ami  direction 
in  the  prae-ticai  affairs  of  the  chmvh,  such  as  by  and 
">y  came  to  be1  formally  intrusted  to  presbyters  or 
oishops.     When  Paul  wrote  to  the  Corinthians,  the1 
ministry  of  office  hael  not  ye't  supplanted  the  minis- 
try of  inspiration,  and  Christian  communities  were1 
guided    and   governeel    by  those1   of  their  members 
whose  wisdom  in  counsel  proved  that  God  through 
His   Spirit    had    be'stowed    upon   them    the   gift  of 
ruling. 

(4)  7/W/«   (/  Cor  12  25).— This  has  sometimes 
been  understooel  to  deviote  the  lowliest    Christian 
fune-tiem  of  all  in  Paul's  list,  the1  function  of  those 
who  have1  no  pronemnced  gifts  of  their  own  ami  can 
only  emple>y  the>mselves  in  services  e>f  a  subordinate1 
kind.     But'  the  usage1  of  the  Gr  word  (antilempsis) 
in  the  papyri  as  well  as  the  LXX  points  to  succor 
rendereel   to   the  weak  by   the  strong;    and   this  is 
cemfinncd  for  the1  NT  wheMi  the1  same  Gr  word  in  its 
verbal   form    (inililiniihiinu)    is  used   in    Acts  20  3">, 
when  Paul  exhorts  the  elde>rs  of  t  he  Ephesian  church 
to  fetllow  liis  example  in  helping  the  weak.     Thus, 
as  the1  gift  of  ge>vernment  foreshadowed  the1  official 
powers  of  the  pivsbyter  or  bishop,  the  gift  of  helps 
appears  to  furnish  the  germ  of  the  gracious  office  oi 
the  eleacon   -the  "minister"   j>ar  excellence,   as  the1 
name  <li<'il;t>nos  denotes—which  we  find  in  existence 
at   a  later  da'e  in  Philippi  and  Kphesus  (Phil  1    1; 
1  Tim  3  1-13),  and  which  was  probably  created,  on 
the  analogy  of  the-  il  in  Iconic  of  the  Se-ve'n  in  Jerus 
(Acts  6  1  IT),  as  a  ministry,  in  the  first  place,  to 
the  poor.     Sen1,  further.  HKI.PS. 

LITKKATT-KK. — TTort .  Christian  Kcch'sin,  T>e'ct  X; 
NVanele>r,  Hist  of  tin-  1'hintinu  of  the  Christian  Church,  I, 
i:U  If:  Wei/sackor,  Apoxtolic.  Aye.  II,  2;V>  75;  Lindsay, 
Churrh  a,,. I  Ministry,  passim;  EH.  IV.  art.  ••Spiritual 
(lifts";  EUE.  Ill,  art.  "Charismata";  PRE,  VI,  art. 
"  Ucistcsgabcn." 

.1.  C.  LAMBERT 

SPIRITUAL  HOUSE  (O!KOS  irvev^ariKOs,  olkos 
pnriii>i(ilifo'>s,  "house  spiritual"):  A  body  of  Chris- 
t  ians  (  a  church  i,  as  pervadcel  by  t  he1  Spirit  and  power 
of  God  (1  Pet '2  .">;;  a  term  applicable  to  (Jod's 
house':  "house1  of  prayer."  the1  temple  (Mt  21  13); 
to  heaven:  "my  Father's  house1"  (.In  14  2);  let 
the  tabernacle:  ""Moses  ....  faithful  in  all  his 
house-"  (He  3  2);  to  saints:  as  "the1  household  of 
God"  (Kph  2  I'.t),  and  "the  temple  of  the  Holy 
Spirit"  (1  Cor  6  10);  hence  any  "habitation  of 
God  in  the  spirit"  (Kph  2  22)  in  which  His  glory 
dwells  and  His  power  and  grace  are1  manifest. 

SPIRITUAL  MAN  (6  irvevjuvriKos,  ho  pncumali- 
koa):  In  distinction  from  the  natural,  the  un re- 
newed man  (1  Cor  2  15);  man  in  whom  the  Holy 
Spirit  elwells  and  rules.  This  Divine  indwelling  in- 
sures mental  illumination:  "I  let  hat  is  spiritual  dis- 
cerneth  |AVm|  (or  interpreted]  all  things"^  moral 
reMienval:  "a  new  creature"  (2  Ce>r  5  17);  "a  new- 
man"  (Eph  4  24);  spiritual  enduement:  "Ye  shall 
receive  pe)wer"  (Acts  1  S).  See:  SPIRITUAL,  2; 
SPIRITUALITY;  MAN,  NEW. 

SPIRITUAL  MEAT  (Ppwjxa  Trvtv\La.riK6v,  broma 
pneumatikon,  "food  spiritual"):  Nourishment  for 
the  soul,  referring  specifically  (1  Cor  10  3)  to  the 


2845 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Spiritual  Gifts 
Spiritually 


manna  by  which  the  children  of  Isniel  were  miracu- 
lously fed  and  which  was  made;  by  Paul  prophetically 
equivalent  to  the  broken  bread  of  the  Christian 
sacrament  symbolizing  the  body  of  Christ.  Hence 
(1)  Christ  Himself  as  the  food  of  the;  soul:  "I  am 
the  bread  of  life"  (Jn  6  4H-5S);  (2)  anything  that 
nourishes  the  spiritual  life:  («)  obedience  to  the 
will  of  (iod:  "My  meat  is  to  do  the  will  of  him  that 
sent  me"  (Jn  4  32-34);  (l>)  the  truths  of  (iod  in  the 
Scriptures:  "Word  of  righteousness"  =  "strong 
meat"  (He  5  12-14);  "word  of  (iod"  (Mt  4  4); 
(c)  the  things  of  the  Spirit  (1  Cor  3  1-2;  cfch2). 

DWKIIIT  M.   PHATT 

SPIRITUAL  ROCK  (irv€V|AaTiKT|  irerpa,  pneH- 
matikf.  pctra):  Having  a  spiritual  significance: 
supernatural,  manifesting  the  power  of  the  Divine 
Spirit;  allegorically  applied  to  Christ  as  fulfilling 
the  type  in  the  smitten  rock  in  the  desert,  from 
which  water  miraculously  burst  forth  to  nourish 
the  Israelites.  A  tradition  current  among  the  Jews 
affirms  that  this  rock  followed  the  people  in  their 
journeyings  and  gave  forth  a  living  stream  for  their 
supply.  Paul  made  this  ever-flowing  rock  a  beauti- 
ful and  accurate  symbol  of  Christ:  "The  rock  was 
Christ"  (1  Cor  10  4). 

Without  the  characterizing  word  "spiritual,"  this 
figurative  term,  with  the  same  significance,  is  common 
to  the  Scriptures;  applied  (1)  to  Jen,  God:  "Rock  of 
his  salvation,"  "their  rock  is  not  as  our  Rock"  (I)t  32 
15.31);  "Jeh  is  my  rock"  (Ps  18  2;  cf  Isa  26  4;  32  2; 
1  S  2  2;  2  S  22  2);  (2)  to  the  foundation-stone  of 
Christian  confession  and  testimony  (Mt  16  18;  cf 
Eph  2  20;  1  Oor  311;  1  Pet  2  6-8),  and  thus  to 
Christ  Himself;  (3)  in  Christian  hymnology  to  Jesus 
crucified  and  spear-pierced:  "  Rock  of  ages,  cleft  for  me." 

DWIGHT  M.  PHATT 

SPIRITUAL  SACRIFICE  (irv£vp,aTiKal  Ovo-iai, 
pneumatikai  ttntsiai) :  A  figure  taken  from  the  victim 
slain  and  offered  on  the  altar,  as  e.g.  the  paschal 
lamb;  thus  signifying  the  complete  and  acceptable 
offering  of  the  self-dedicated  spirit.  As  the  temple, 
priesthood  and  God  Himself  arc  spiritual,  so  is  the 
sacrifice  of  the  consecrated  believer  (1  Pet.  2  5); 
cf  "living  sacrifice"  (Rom  12  1);  "sacrifice  of 
praise"  (He  13  15.16).  Any  self-dedicating  act 
of  the  inner  man;  the  devout,  renewed,  consecrated 
spirit,  e.g.  Christian  benevolence  (Phil  4  IS);  "to 
do  good  and  to  communicate"  (He  13  10);  "mercy" 
and  "knowledge  of  God,"  instead  of  material  and 
outward  sacrifice  (Hos  6  6).  This  is  defined  and 
beautifully  illustrated  in  the  classic  verse  on  this 
theme,  "The  sacrifices  of  God  are  a  broken  spirit," 
etc  (Ps  51  17).  DWIGHT  M.  PHATT 

SPIRITUAL  f  SONGS  (w8al  -n-vev^ariKaC,  odai 
pneumatikai}:  ^5??,  ddt,  Eng.  "ode,"  is  the  general, 
and  generic  word  for  "song,"  of  which  "psalms 
and  hymns"  are  specific  varieties  (Eph  6  19;  Col 
3  10).  It  includes  all  lyric  poetry,  but  is  limited 
by  the  word  "spiritual"  to  songs  inspired  by  the 
Holy  Spirit  and  employed  in  the  joyful  and  devo- 
tional expression  of  the  spiritual  life.  While  songs, 
like  psalms  and  hymns,  were  used  in  public  wor- 
ship and  praise,  they  were  more  intended  for,  and 
suited  to,  personal  and  private  and  social  use;  as, 
e.g.  in  family  worship,  at  meals,  in  the  fif/dpai 
("love-feasts"),  in  meetings  for  prayer  and  religious 
intercourse  from  house  to  house.  The  passages 
above  cited  give  apostolic  authority  for  the  use  of 
other  than  the  OT  pss  in  public  praise,  and  rebuke 
the  narrowness  and  unbelief  that  would  forever 
limit  the  operations  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the 
hymnology  of  the  church  to  the  narrow  compass 
of  the  Davidic  era  and  the  Davidic  school  of  poetry 
and  song. 

The  "new  song"  of  Rev  5  9;  14  3,  and  "the  song 
of  Moses  and  of  the  Lamb"  (16  3).  indicate  that 
spiritual  songs  are  to  be  perpetuated  in  the  eternal 
melodies  of  the  redeemed.  DWIGHT  M.  PHATT 


SPIRITUAL  THINGS  (rd  n-v^amcd,  /«  pn<-u- 
matikd}:  Things  proceeding  from  the  Holy  Spirit 
and  pertaining  to  man's  spiritual  life,  worship, 
service.  Contrasted  in  1  Cor  9  11  and  in  Rom 

15  27  with  rd.  a-apKiKd,  Id  unrlcibi,  things  fleshly, 
physical,  which  have  to  do  with  man's  sensuous, 
corporeal  nature,  such  as  food,  raiment,  money. 
By  "spiritual  things"  Paul  signifies  the  benefits 
accompanying  salvation,  the  gifts  of  the  Spirit-- 
faith, hope,  love,  justification,  sanctificat  ion,  peace 
— all  the  fruits  and  blessings  and  aids  of  the  regener- 
ate life. 

Ecclesiastically:  Things  pertaining  to  spiritual 
office,  the  ministry  of  the  Word,  or  the  service  of 
the  sanctuary.  DWH;HT  M.  PHATT 

SPIRITUALITY,  spir-it-n-al'i-ti:  The  state  of 
being  spiritual  in  the  higher  use  of  the  word.  It  is 
purely  a  religious  term  and  signifies  the  state  of  a 
soul  vitalized  by  the  Divine  Spirit  and  made  alive 
unto  (iod.  It  covers  the  entire  range  of  man's 
faculties:  intellect,  feeling,  will — all  the  attributes 
of  personality. 

The  intellectual  can  be  divorced  from  the  spiritual, 

but  the  spiritual  can  never  be  divorced  from  the 

intellectual.     If    a    man    is    spiritual, 

1.  Intellect    his     intellect     is     touched     with     the 

Divine  life  and  comes  under  f  he  power 
of  the  Divine  baptism.  One  word  describes  this 
mental  quickening  and  illumination — "vision." 
"The  pure  in  heart  shall  see  God."  Paul  affirms 
(1  Cor  2  12.13)  that  the  Spirit  of  God  operates 
directly  on  the  mental  faculties,  adjusting  reason 
and  intellect  to  the  Divine  reason,  and  enabling 
man  to  think  God's  thoughts  and  discern  His 
purposes,  nature  and  will.  The  common  use  of 
the  word  "spirituality"  limits  it  mistakenly  to 
religious  experience,  narrowly  interpreted,  but  as 
spirituality  brings  the  intellect  into  harmony  with 
the  Divine  reason  in  every  realm  of  mental  action, 
it  may  be  as  manifest  in  science,  art,  philosophy, 
commerce  and  law  as  in  religion. 

The  feelings  and  emotions  are  fertile  soil  for  the 
spiritual  life.  Love  is  the  beginning  and  end  of 

true  religion.     Spirituality  in  the  realm 

2.  Affec-        of  the  affections  is  that  "state  of  soul 
tions  in    which    the   heart    with   its   holiest 

love  is  centered  on  God  as  revealed 
in  Christ.  The  specific  and  supreme  work  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  is  to  shed  abroad  God's  love  in  the 
heart  (Rom  5  5).  Spirituality  sets  the  affections 
on  things  above  and  brings  the  entire  emotional 
nature  under  the  regulating  and  redeeming  sway  of 
the  Holy  Spirit. 

A  spiritually-minded  man  is  one  whose  will  is 
set  on  God  as  well  as  his  intellect  and  affections. 

In  every  fiber  of  his  moral  being,  and 

3.  Will  in  all  the  activities  of  his  soul,  he  is 

under  the  guidance  and  dominion  of 
the  Holy  Spirit.  The  affections  present  motives, 
the  intellect  estimates  their  worthiness,  the  will 
decides  upon  the  course  of  action.  When  this 
trinity  of  mental  operation — necessary  to  normal 
manhood — is  under  the  sway  of  the  Divine  Spirit, 
man  possesses  spirituality,  a  state  in  which  all  the 
faculties  of  the  soul  are  voluntarily  and  joyfully 
under  the  dominion  and  guidance  of  Christ's  in- 
dwelling Spirit .  When  intellect,  heart  and  will  focus 
their  energies  reverently  and  affectionately  upon 
Him,  love — a  passionate,  ever-present,  everdom- 
inant  love — is  the  result.  This  is  the  triune  sphere 
of  the  Holy  Spirit 's  indwelling  and  activity,  and  the 
character  of  such  a  God-centered  and  Spirit-filled 
life  is  described  by  the  exalted  word  "spirituality." 

DWIGHT  M.  PHATT 

SPIRITUALLY,  spir'it-fi-al-i  (irvevfiaTiKois,  pneu- 
matikos):  As  in  1  Cor  2  14,  "spiritually  judged," 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Spit 
Stall 

i  (.  by  means  ol  the  spirit  renewed  and  enlightened 
bv  Ilie  Spirit  of  (lod;  having  the  mind  of  the  Spirit 
is'  to  be-  spiritually-minded  (cf  AY  and  R\  Rom  8 

Allegorically  used  also  (Rev  11  S)  to  characterize, 
;„  .,  bad  sense,  the  qualities  of  the  spiritual  (i.e.  the 
spirit's)  life:  "which  spiritually  is  called  Sodom.  ' 
See  SPIRITUAL. 

SPIT,  spit,  SPITTLE,  spit"!  (pT1 ,  ynrak,  pn 
rfik-  [eH-h"-™,  [cin\iitu.o):  Spitting  in  a  person's 
fire  indicated  gross  contempt  (Nu  12  14;  Dt  25 
9  Job  30  10;  Isa  60  6;  Mt  26  67;  27  30  etc); 
when  performed  by  an  unclean  person  it  produced 
defilement  (Lev  15  8)  which  necessitated  washing 
h!  "lothes  and  a  bath.  When  David  a  lowed 
his  spittle  O-n,  rlr)  to  run  down  over  his  heard 
it  was  his  purpose  to  behave  like  a  lunatic  IS  21 
IT)  "Till  I  swallow  down  my  spittle  (Job  7  1 
has  the  same  import  as  the  Eng.  "in  the  twinkling 
^Vn  eye"  (1  Cor  15  /W).  Spittle  ^as  used  by 
Our  Lord  in  restoring  sight  and  speech  (Mk  7  66; 
Jn  9  6)  as  signifying  His  will  to  cure.  It  was  a 
widespread  belief  that  spittle,  accompanied  with 
magical  formulae,  possessed  medicinal  qualities. 
"Oil"  possessed  a  similar  virtue  (Mk  6  13;  Jas 
5  14). 

SPOIL,  spoil.     See  BOOTY;    WAR,  8. 

SPOILER,  spoil'er  (""EH ,  ha-xhudhf'dh,  "the 
•noiler")'  \  favorite  expression  of  the  prophet 
Jeremiah  by  which  ho  describes  generally  the 
enemies  that  invade  and  devastate  a  country- 
with  special  reference  to  enemies  that  invade  Judah 
(Jer  12  I'7'  15  8);  to  enemies  who  devastate 
Moab  (48  8.18);  to  enemies  from  the  X.  who  are 
to  -issa.il  Babylon  (51  48),  and  in  one  case  (6  26) 
to  Nebuchadrezzar  making  an  irresistible  advance 
upon  Jerus.  ARY  uniformly  renders  "destroyer. 

SPOKE,  spok  (1  K  7  33).    See  SEA,  MOLTEN. 

SPONGE,  spunj  (o-iro-y-yos,  s/wr/r/rw)  :  The  word 
"snonire  "  \V  "spunge,"  occurs  only  in  the  accounts 
of  Our  Lord's  crucifixion  in  Mt  27  48;  Mk  15  3(5; 
Jn  19  29.  Sponges  have  been  known  from  the 
earliest  periods.  They  are  mentioned  by  Homer, 
Aeschylus  Aristophanes  and  other  ancient  writers. 
The  sponge  fisheries  of  the  Eastern  Mediterranean 
are  still  among  the  most  important  in  the  world. 
Sponges  are  animals  of  a  very  simple  organization, 
fixed  to  rocks  or  other  objects  in  the  sea  or  in  fresh 
w-iter  The  marketable  sponge  consists  of  a  mass 
of  soft  interlacing  fibers  which  constituted  the 
skeleton  of  the  living  animal.  The  sponge;  fishers 
of  the  Levant  dive  from  boats,  with  or  without 
diving  apparatus,  and  tear  the  sponges  from  the 
rocks  with  their  hands.  The  sponges  are  allowed 
to  die  and  rot  in  the  air  and  are  then  thoroughly 
washed  until  nothing  but  the  skeleton  remains. 
Sponges  which  have  calcareous  or  sihcious  skeletons 
arc  unfit  for  use.  ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

SPOON,  spoon  (??,  kaph;  LXX  9vttrK.r\,thuislce, 
except  in  Jer  52  18,  where  it  is  Kp€a^pa,  krcdt/ra, 
lit  "fork"):  A  hollow  vessel,  a  censer;  a  small 
vessel  in  which  incense  was  to  be  burnt,  as  is  seen 
from  the  account  given  in  Nu  7  of  the  oblations  of 
the  princes  of  the  tribes  after  the  setting-up  of  the 
tabernacle.  Beginning  with  ver  14  of  this  chapter, 
we  meet  at  every  succeeding  6th  verse  the  state- 
ment "one  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of 
incense,"  till  at  ver  86  the  summary  statement  is 
made,  "the  twelve  golden  spoons,  full  of  incense.' 


2846 


SPORTS,  sports.     See  C.AMES. 


SPOT,  spot,  SPOTTED,  spot'ed  (2^,  mum; 
o-rriXos,  spUon):  The  11  eb  word  is  used  to  denote  a 
blemish  which  mars  the  perfection  of  the  face,  as 
in  Cant  4  7;  Job  11  lo.  It  is  tr'1  "blemish"  in 
Lev  24  19  f,  where  it  means  an  injury  the  result  of 
violence,  and  is  rendered  "blot"  in  Prov  9  7, 
where  it  signifies  "shame"  or  "disgrace."  The 
"spotted"  cattle  of  C.en  30  .32-39  are  animals  of 
variegated  color  (&'£  ,  tain  ;  cf  E/k  16  16,  "decked 
with  divers  colors";  Josh  9  5,  "patched").  For 
lirihliarbiirah  in  Jer  13  23,  see  LEOPARD.  Spilos 
is  used  in  the  figurative  sense  of  a  st  ain  of  sin  in  2  Pet 
3  14,  and  similarly  along  with  rlint'is  ("a  wrinkle") 
inEph  5  27.  The  "garment  spotted  [vb.spiWomat] 
by  the  flesh"  of  Jude  ver  23  is,  as  Calvin  has  para- 
phrased it,  anything  that  in  any  way  savors  of  sm 
or  temptation.  The  "spots"  of  Jude  ver  12  AY  are 
xpilddcs,  "hidden  [sunken]  rocks"  which  are  betrayed 
by  the  surf  beating  over  them  (as  in  Homer  Od. 
iii.298),  and  are  so  rendered  in  RY.  ^  "Spot'  in  Lev 
13  is  referred  to  under  FRECKLED  SPOT;  LEI-ROSY; 
TETTER. 

"Without  spot"  in  Nu  19  2,  etc,  is  tannm,  a  usual 
word  for  "perfect"  (so  RYm);  dxpilos  (the  negative 
form  of  xitilo*}  occurs  in  1  Tim  6  14;  1  Pet  1  19; 
2  Pet  3  14,  with  Jas  1  27  ("unspotted").  For  AV 
He  9  14  see  BLEMISH.  ALEX.  MACALISTER 

SPOUSE,  spoil/  (H33  ,  kallah,  "bride,"  "daughter- 
in-law"):  RV  gives  '"bride"  for  AV  "spouse"  in 
Cant  4  8  ff,  and  "brides"  for  "spouses"  in  Hos 
413f  (in  "daughters-in-law").  See  ESPOUSAL; 
MARRIACE;  RELATIONSHIPS,  FAMILY. 

SPREAD,  spred,  SPREADING,  spred'ing: 
Alone,  or  in  phrases  like  "spread  abroad,"  "spread 
forth,"  etc,  "spread"  represents  very  many  Heb 
terms,  principally  TITS,  paras;  in  the  NT  the  act 
of  spreading  is  ffrptivvvfu,  strdnnumi,  where  in  Mt,  21 
8&  AV  has  "strawed"  (q.v.);  compound  in  Lk  19  36. 
For  "spread  abroad"  in  Mk  1  28;  1  Thess  1 
(exfrchomai),  RV  has  "went  out"  and  "gone  forth  ; 
conversely,  RY  has  "spread  abroad"  for  AV  "break 
forth"  (Isa  64  3)  and  "published"  (diaphcro,  Acts 

13  49)    and  for  "commonly  reported"  (diaphemizo, 
Mt  28   lf>). 

SPRING.     See  FOUNTAIN;  WELL. 

SPRINKLE,  sprin'k'l,  SPRINKLING,  sprin'kling 
(plj,  zarak,  HTI  ,  niizah;  pavri^iv,  rhanttzein): 
The'  first  word  means  "to  toss"  or  "scatter  abun- 
dantly "  e.g.  in  handfuls,  as  dust  on  the  head  (Job  2 
V>)  or  blood  from  a  bowl  (Ex  9  8).  The  other 
Heb  word  is  used  of  sprinkling  with  the  finger  (Lev 

14  7;     16  14,   etc).     In    the   account   of   Jezebels 
death  the  word  is  used  in  its  literal  meaning  of 
"spurt"  (2  K  9  33). 

Sprinkling  (blood,  water,  oil)  formed  an  impor- 
tant—if not  the  essential—  part  of  the  act  of  sacrifice. 
A  consideration  of  the  chief  passages  in  the  OT  will 
reveal  the  prominence  and  the  significance  of  sprin- 
kling as  a  feature  of  the  sacrificial  act.  The  sig- 
nificance of  the  sprinkling  of  blood  is  seen  in  the 
account  of  the  establishment  of  the  covenant  be- 
tween Jeh  and  Israel  (Ex  24  6-8).  Half  the  blood 
was  sprinkled  on  the  altar  as  representing  the  Deity, 
while  the  remainder  was  put  into  a  basin  and  then 
sprinkled  on  the  people.  This  ceremony  is  a  sur- 
vival in  a  modified  form  of  the  communal  meal  in 
which  the  tribal  god  and  his  worshippers  sat  to- 
gether and  participated  in  the  same  food,  and  in 
this  way  came  to  possess  the  same  life.  The  two- 
fold sprinkling  of  blood  resulted  in  the  establishment 


2847 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Spit 
Stall 


of  an  inviolable  bond  (Nu  18  17;  2  K  16  l.r>).  In 
the  account  of  the  consecration  of  Aaron  and  his 
sons  (Ex  29  16.20.21)  the  blood  of  the  r:irn  of  the 
burnt  offering  \v;is  sprinkled  on  the  altar,  while 
the  blood  of  the  r;tm  of  consecration  was  put  on  the 
altar  and  sprinkled  on  Aaron  and  his  sons  and  on 
their  garments.  Water  of  purifying  was  sprinkled 
on  the  Levites  at  their  ordination  (Nu  8  7).  Lev 
gives  detailed  information  in  regard  to  sacrificial 
sprinkling.  In  the  case  of  burnt  offering  the  blood 
was  sprinkled  round  about  upon  the  altar  (Lev  1 
5.11).  The  same  practice  obtained  in  the  case  of 
peace  offerings,  whether  ox,  lamb  or  goat  (Lev  3 
2.8.13).  When  a  sin  offering  for  sins  inadvertently 
committed  was  made,  the  priest  dipped  his  fingers 
in  the  blood  and  sprinkled  it  seven  times  before 
Jeh,  before  the  veil  of  the  Holy  Place  (Lev  4  6). 
Elsewhere  (Lev  16  11.15)  we  read  that  Aaron  took 
the  blood  of  the  sin  offering  and  sprinkled  it  with 
his  finger  upon  the  mercy-seat,  eastward,  7  t  (see 
also  Nu  19  4).  Sprinkling  constituted  part  of  the 
process  of  purification.  But  it  is  obvious  that  the 
sprinkling,  even  in  this  case,  was  a  religious  act, 
and  not  part  of  the  actual  physical  cleaning.  A 
simple  kind  of  sprinkler  was  made  by  fastening  a 
bunch  of  hyssop  to  a  cedar  rod  by  a  piece  of  scarlet 
thread  or  wool  and  then  the  patient  was  besprinkled 
7  t  (Lev  14  7),  while  oil  was  sprinkled  with  the 
finger,  also  7  t,  before  Jeh  (Lev  14  1(5;  see  also  Ex 
12  22;  Nu  19  18;  Ps  51  7).  The  house  in  which 
the  leper  lived  was  disinfected  in  the  same  thorough 
manner  (Lev  16  51). 

In  the  case  of  persons  who  had  contracted  unclean- 
ness  tlirough  contact  with  a  corpse,  sprinkling  with  the 
"water  of  separation"  was  part  of  the  process  of  cleans- 
ing. The  water  of  separation  consisted  of  the  ashes  of 
a  red  heifer  (slain  for  the  purpose)  mixed  with  running 
water  (NTu  19).  A  sprinkler  was  used  as  in  the  case  of 
the  leper  (19  18).  The  final  sprinkling — on  the  7th  day 
— was  followed  by  a  bath  (ver  19).  The  "tent"  in 
which  the  corpse  lay,  together  with  all  the  contents,  were 
thoroughly  disinfected  (see  HEIFEK,  KED). 

According  to  Ex  (9  8.10)  the  plague  of  "boils 
and  blains"  wras  caused  through  the  sprinkling  of 
ashes  ("soot"  RVm)  in  the  air  toward  heaven, 
which  settled  on  man  and  beast  and  produced  the 
eruption.  The  narrative  gives  no  clue  in  reference 
to  the  connection  between  the  ashes  and  the  erup- 
tion, but  the  religious  character  of  the  act  is  obvious. 
By  means  of  it,  the  assistance  of  the  Deity  was 
invoked.  According  to  primitive  thought,  there 
was  no  necessary  connection  between  the  religious 
act  and  the  consummation  devoutly  wished  for. 
The  purpose  of  the  religious  observance  was  to 
influence,  or  bring  pressure  to  bear  upon,  the  Deity 
so  that  He  might  exert  Himself  on  behalf  of  the 
worshipper.  It  is  evident  that  sprinkling  as  part 
of  the  act  of  worship  was  believed  to  be  religiously 
effectual.  It  was  not  symbolical  nor  morally  sig- 
nificant. It  was  a  religious  act.  It  is  not  denied 
that  in  some  passages  sprinkling  is  symbolical. 
According  to  Ezk  (36  25)  the  restored  community 
will  experience  moral  and  spiritual  renewal.  There 
will  be  a  "new  heart"  and  a  "new  spirit."  The 
sprinkling  with  clean  water  is  the  outward  symbol 
of  the  inward  lustration.  In  Isa  63  3  the  sacrifi- 
cial allusion  is  obvious.  The  conqueror  who  strides 
triumphantly  from  Bozrah  is  "besprinkled"  with 
the  life-blood  (or  juice)  of  his  victims.  In  Isa  62 
15  "sprinkle"  is  a  doubtful  rendering.  There  is  no 
apparent  connection  between  bodily  disfigurement 
and  national  purification.  RVm  renders  "startle" 
(lit.  "cause  to  spring").  The  exalted  dignity  of 
the  "martyr"  will  excite  the  wonder  of  kings  and 
peoples. 

In  1  Pet  1  2,  "sprinkling  of  the  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ"  is  used  figuratively  of  its  cleansing  efficacy 
(cf  He  9  13.14;  10  22).  T.  LEWIS 


SPURIOUS,  spii'ri-us,  ACTS,  EPISTLES,  GOS- 
PELS. See  APOCRYPHAL  ACTS;  APOCKYPHAL 
EPISTLES;  APOCRYPHAL  GOSPELS. 

SPY,  spl.     See  ESPY. 

STACHYS,  sta'kis  (Srdxvs,  <S'/ar//i/.s)  :  The 
name  of  a  Rom  Christian  to  whom  Puul  sent  greet- 
ings. The  name  is  (!r  and  uncommon;  it  has  been 
found  in  inscriptions  connected  with  the  imperial 
household.  Puul  designates  him  "my  beloved" 
(Rom  16  9). 

STACK,  stak:  Ex  22  <>  AV,  RV  "shocks"  (of 
grain). 

STACTE,  stak'te  (Sip:,  nnJLaph,  "drops"  [Job 
36  27];  O-TCIKTT|,  Htnkir,  meaning  "oo/ing  out  in 
drops"):  One  of  the  ingredients  of  the  holy  oint- 
ment (Ex  30  34;  Ecclus24  15,  m  "opobalsamum," 
AV  _"storax").  _  The  marginal  reading  is  a  con- 
cession to  Jewish  tradition,  but  see  SPICE,  (1). 
Dioscorides  describes  two  kinds  of  stacte,  one  of 
pure  myrrh  and  one  of  storax  and  a  fat  mixed. 
See  MYRRH.  This  natdph  must  have  been  either 
myrrh  "in  drops,"  as  it  is  collected,  or  some  other 
fragrant  gum,  similarly  collected,  such,  for  example, 
as  gum  tragacanth. 

STAFF,  staf:  Many  IIeb  terms  are  represented 
by  this  word.  The  "staves"  of  the  ark  translate 
the  word  "13  ,  badh,  lit.  "a  part,"  hence  branch,  bar, 
etc  (Ex  25  13.14.15.27.28,  etc).  Other  words,  as 
matteh,  makkcl,  shcbhct,  used  of  the  staff  in  the 
hand,  the  shepherd's  staff,  figuratively,  "staff  of 
bread"  (matteh,  Ezk  4  10;  5  Hi;  14  13),  as  indis- 
pensable for  support  of  life;,  are  dealt  with  under 
ROD  (q.v.).  The  NT  word  is  pdp8os,  rhdbdos  (Mt 
10  10  ||  Lk  9  3;  He  11  21).  See  also  SCEPTKE. 

STAIR,  star.     See  HOUSE. 

STAKE,  stak:  Isa  33  20;  54  2  for  -JZV  ,  yuthedh, 
"tent-pin,"  or,  perhaps,  "tent-pole"  (Ex  27  19; 
Jgs  4  21,  etc).  AV  Sir  43  19,  "The  hoar  frost, 
....  being  congealed,  lieth  on  the  top  of  sharp 
stakes,"  is  of  course  meaningless.  RV  "When  it  is 
congealed,  it  is  as  points  of  thorns"  renders  the  Gr 
very  exactly,  but  the  Heb  would  indicate  for  the 
original  meaning  "forms  frost-flowers  of  sapphire." 

STALK,  stok:  In  Gen  41  5.22  is  for  H^  , 
kdnch,  "cane";  in  Josh  2  6  for  y?,  'ef,  "wood." 
In  Hos  8  7,  RVm  has  "stalk"  for  rP2j2  ,  kamah, 
"that  which  stands."  RV's  "standing  grain"  is 
due  to  this  meaning  of  kdindh  in  Ex  22  6,  etc,  but 
this  tr  spoils  the  figure.  The  meaning  is,  "They 
sow  the  wind,  a  worthless  sowing,  for  such  seed  pro- 
duces no  stalk,  it  yields  no  grain." 


STALL,  stol  ([1]  pS^ta,  marbck,  lit.,  "a  place 
for  tying  up"  [Am  6  4;  Mai  4  2],  [2]  C2X  ,  'abhas, 
"to  give  fodder"  [Prov  15  17],  [3]  PPIX  ,  'urvah,  "to 
pluck  and  feed"  [1  K  4  2(5;  2  Ch  9  25;  32  28], 
[4]  npn,  repheth,  "a  resting  place"  [Ilab  3  17]; 
[5]  <j>aTVT|,  phdtne,  "a  manger"  or  "crib"  [Lk  13  15; 
cf  C13S?,  'tM(7,s,trd  "crib"  in  Isa  1  3;  Prov  14  4]): 
During  the  season  when  cattle  are  not  being  used 
they  are  allowed  to  roam  in  the  fields.  Otherwise 
they  are  tied  in  rooms  in  the  winter  time,  or  under 
shelters  made  of  green  boughs  in  the  summer,  and 
all  their  food  brought  to  them.  Horses  and  cattle 
alike  are  haltered  and  the  chains  fastened  through 
holes  made  in  stones  project  ing  from  the  walls.  No 
stanchions  and  no  separating  partitions  between 


Stammerer 
Stars,  Falling 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2848 


animals  arc  used.     Tho  horses  arc  usually  hobbled 
MS  well.  JAMKS  A.  PATCH 

STAMMERER,  stam'er-cr:  Isa  32  4,  3^7, 
*ill.i'(/ti,  ''inarticulate  speaking."  In  Isa  28  11; 
33  it),  r<?  (pointing  uncertain)  is  rendered  "strange" 
by  K,V,  with  "stammering"  in  AV,  R\"m.  Prob- 
ably the  word  means  both,  as  ])riinitive  people 
always  think  (hat  their  own  language  alone  is 
clearly  pronounced.  Or  the  word  may  mean 
"mocking." 

STANDARD-BEARER,  sland'ard-bar'er.  See 
WAK,  ">;  HAXNKR. 

STANDARDS,  stand'ard/,.  See  WAR,  r>;  HAN- 
NKK;  ASTRONOMY,  II,  7. 

STANDING,  stand'ing.     Sec  ArrrrrnKs. 

STAR,  star,  STARS,  star/.  Sec  ASTRONOMY, 
I,  r>. 

STARGAZERS,  star'ga/.-er/,.     Sec  ASTROLOGY,  f>. 

STAR  IN  THE  EAST.  See  STAR  OF  THE  M.\(ii; 
MAOI. 

STAR  OF  BETHLEHEM.  Sec  STAR  OK  THK 
MAGI. 

STAR  OF  THE  MAGI: 

1.  The  Magi 

'2.  Herod's  Knquiry 

:i  Two  Facts  concerning  the  Star 

I.  The  Wisdom  of  the  Magi  Not  Astrological 

">.  Tlio  Prophecy  of  Balaam 

(1.  Tho  Star  .Vot  a  Conjunction  of  Planets 

7.  The  Star  Xot  Nova  Cassiopeiae 

X.  The  Legend  of  the  Well 

9.  Lesson  of  the  Narrative 

The  birth  of  Our  Lord  was  announced  in  a  super- 
natural manner  not  only  to  .lews  by  the  angelic 
message  to  the  shepherds,  but   also  to 

1.  The  Gentiles,     for     "Wise-men  _from    the 
Magi  east  came  to  Jerusalem,  saying,  Where 

is  he  that  is  born  King  of  the  Jews? 
for  we  saw  his  star  in  the  east,  and  are  come  to 
worship  him"  (Mt  2  1.2).  The  word  which  has 
been  rendered  ''wise  men"  in  AV  and  EUV  (ARV 
"Wise-men")  is  ''Magi."  These,  according  to 
Herodotus,  were  originally  a  tribe  of  (lie  Medes 
(Herodotus  i.101)  and  from  (heir  supposed  skill 
in  divination  the  term  was  applied  to  the  learned 
and  priestly  caste  among  the  followers  of  Zoroaster; 
they  were  thus  in  principle  worshippers  of  one  only 
God,  and  rejecters  of  polytheism  and  idolatry. 
The  simple  creed  and  high  morality,  which  Zoroas- 
trianism  in  its  purest  form  professed,  were  well 
adapted  to  prepare  its  faithful  disciples  to  receive 
a  further  revelat  ion,  and  we  may  reasonably  believe 
that  the  wise  men  who  had  been  thus  guided  to 
worship  the  new-born  king  of  the  Jews  had  been 
faithful  to  the  light  afforded  to  them,  for  "in  every 
nation  he  that  f caret h  him  [God],  and  worketh 
righteousness,  is  acceptable  to  him"  (Acts  10  35). 
See  MAGI. 

The  gospel  tells  us  that  the  arrival  of  the  Magi  at 
Jerus  threw  Herod  the  king  and  all  the  city  into 

great  excitement,  and  Herod  at  once 

2.  Herod's    called  a  council  of  all  the  chief  priests 
Enquiry          and  scribes  of  the  people  that  he  might 

learn  from  them  where  the  Messiah 
should  be  born.  In  reply  they  quoted  to  him  the 
prophecy  of  Micah  which  had  indicated  Bethlehem 
as  (he  destined  site.  "Then  Herod  privily  called  the 
Wise-men,  and  learned  of  them  exactly  what  time 
the  star  appeared.  And  he  sent  them  to  Bethlehem, 


and  said,  Go  and  search  out  exactly  concerning  the 
young  child;  and  when  ye  have  found  him,  bring  me 
word,  that  I  also  may  come  and  worship  him.  And 
they,  having  heard  (he  king,  went  their  way;  and 
lo,  (lie  star,  which  they  saw  in  (he  east,  went  before 
(hem,  till  it  came  and  stood  over  where  the  young 
child  was.  And  when  (hey  saw  the  s(ar,  they 
rejoiced  with  exceeding  great  joy"  (Mt  2  7-10). 
So  much,  and  no  more,  are  we  (old  of  the  star  of  the 
Magi,  and  the  story  is  as  significant  in  its  omissions 
as  in  that  which  it  tells  us. 

What  sort  of  a  star  it  was  that  led  the  wise  men; 
how  they  learned  from  it  that  the  King  of  (lie  Jews 
was  born;  how  it  went  before  them; 
3.  Two  how  it  stood  over  where  the  young 

Facts  con-  Child  was,  we  do  not  know.  We  are 
cerning  the  indeed  told  but  two  facts  concerning 
Star  it:  first,  that  its  appearance  in  some 

way  or  other  did  inform  the  wise  men, 
not  of  (he  birth  of  a  king  of  the  Jews,  but  of  the 
King  of  (he  Jews  for  whose  coming,  not  Israel 
only,  bu(  more  or  less  consciously  (he  whole  civilized 
world  was  waiting;  next,  that,  when  (hey  had  come 
to  Judaea  in  consequence  of  this  information,  the 
star  pointed  out  to  them  the  actual  spot  where  the 
new-born  King  was  to  be  found.  It  went  before 
them  (ill  it  came  and  stood  over  where  the  young 
Child  was.  It  may  also  be  inferred  from  Mt  2  10 
that  in  some  way  or  other  the  wise  men  had  for  a 
time  lost  sight  of  the  star,  so  that  the  two  facts 
mentioned  refer  (o  two  separate  appearances.  The 
first  appearance  induced  the  Magi  to  leave;  (he  East 
and  set  out  for  Judaea;  the  second  pointed  out  to 
them  (he  place  at  Bethlehem  where  the  object  of 
their  search  was  to  be  found.  Nothing  _is  told  us 
respect  ing  the  star  except  its  work  as  a  guide. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  Magi  took  (heir 
journey  in  obedience  (o  direct  revelation  from  God, 
and  since  we  are  told  that  God  warned  them  in  a 
dream  not  to  return  to  Herod,  so  that  they  departed 
to  their  own  country  another  way,  it  is  but  reason- 
able to  suppose  that  their  outward  journey  had  been 
directed  in  a  similar  manner. 

It  has   been  conjectured   that  as   the   Magians   were 
credited  with  a  great  skill  in  astrology  they   may  have 
boon  able  to  forecast  the  birth  of  Our  Lord 
4    The  l)-v  tlu3  rules  of  their  art.      But  this  con- 

TiT"  A  t  lecture  must  be  peremptorily  rejected.  It 
Wisdom  or  ascribes  to  tho  pseudo-science  of  astrology 
the  Magi  a  reality  to  which  it  has  no  claim,  for  it  is 
TNTnt  Act™  Inconceivable  that  the  planetary  configura- 
tions can  really  foretell  tho  birth  of  princes. 
logical  Even  if  it  were  admitted  that  such  could 

be  tho  case,  no  such  event  could  be  taken 
as  indicating  the  One  Birth  for  which  tho  world  was 
waiting,  unless  SOUK;  direct  and  explicit  revelation  from 
God  had  been  received  to  that  effect.  For  that  Birth 
was  necessarily  unique,  and  science,  can  deal  only  with 
repeated  events.  No  astronomical  research  is  now, 
or  was  at  any  time,  competent  in  itself  to  supply  tho 
indication  needed;  it  was  not  in  virtue  of  any  natural 
learning  that  the  wise  men  understood  the  meaning  of  tho 
star.  And  if  a  mere  astronomical  research  was  helpless 
to  supplv  any  such  power  of  prediction,  still  more 
emphatically  must  the  claim  of  "occult  knowledge"  bo 
disallowed.  So  far  as  occult  knowledge  has  had  any 
basis  in  fact  at  all,  it  has  been  simply  a  euphemistic 
way  of  describing  tho  frauds,  impostures  and  crimes  by 
which  debased  heathen  priesthoods  and  "medicine 
men"  have  imposed  upon  the  gross  superstition  of  their 
followers.  Tho  very  suggestion  that,  by  means  like 
those,  God's  purpose  would  be  made  known  shows  that 
those  who  suggest  it  have  not  entirely  shaken  oif  the 
influence  of  heathenism. 

The  suggestion  has  often  been  made  that  the 
prophecy  of  Balaam,  "There  shall  come  forth  a 

star  out  of  Jacob,  and  a  sceptre  shall 
5.  The  rise  out  of  Israel"  (Nu  24  17),  may 

Prophecy  have  been  preserved  in  the  East 
of  Balaam  ami  have  furnished  the  clue  upon 

which  the  Magi  acted.  It  is  a  pleasing 
thought  that  these  devout  Gentiles  had  thus  pre- 
served and  meditated  upon  the  prophecy  given 
through  one  who  may  well  have  been  of  an  allied 


2849 


T1II<;  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BlltUO  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Stammerer 
Stars,  Falling 


order  I o  themselves;  bill  that  prophecy  can  surely 
no),  have  been  siillieienl,  in  ilself,  ami  sonic  much 
more  direct  intimation  must,  have  been  vouch- 
safed )o  them;  though  the  prophecy  may  have 
aided  their  i'aith  and  have  dictated  (he  form  in 
which  they  announced  their  mission  to  King  Herod 
and  the  Jews. 

Wo  arc  not   told  how  the  Magi  learned  the  meaning 
of  the  star,  neither  are  we  told  what  kind  of  a  star  it  was. 
Sonic    three,    centuries    ago    the    ingenious 
R    Thp  ^tar    ailt'  'Icvout  Kepler  supposed  that  he  could 
•JvJ-   I    V>  identify  the  star  with  a  conjunction  of  the 

JNot  a  Lon-  planets  Jupiter  and  Saturn  in  the  constella- 
junction  of  tion  l'i*<-< •.<,  the  two  planets  being  so  close 
Planotc  lls  ^°  HOllin  a  single  star.  This  conjunc- 

tion took  plaee  in  the  month  of  May, 
7  HO,  not  very  long  before  the  birth  of 
Our  Lord  is  supposed  to  have  taken  place.  Hut  the  late 
Professor  Pritchard  has  shown  (Mature  and  Revelation, 
243-55),  first,  that  a  similar  and  closer  conjunction 
occurred  59  years  earlier,  and  should  therefore  have 
brought  a  Magian  deputation  to  Judaea  then.  Next. 
that  the  two  planets  never  approached  each  other 
nearer  than  twice  the  diameter  of  the  moon,  so  that  they 
would  have  appeared,  not  as  one  star,  but  as  two,  and 
thirdly,  if  the  planets  had  seemed  to  stand  over  Bethle- 
hem as  the  wise  men  left  Jerus,  they  would  assuredly 
not  have  appeared  to  do  so  when  they  arrived  at  the 
little  city.  Ingenious  as  the  suggestion  was,  it  may  bo 
dismissed  as  unworthy  of  serious  consideration. 

Another  suggestion  has  received  at  times  a  very  wide 

popularity.     In    the   year    1572   a   wonderful   new   star 

appeared  in  the  constellation   Cassiopeia. 

7.  Not  Nova  -^   il's   brightest  it   outshone   Venus   and 
~        .         .       was   visible  in   the  daylight,    and   though 
cassiopeme  ^  gradually  declined  in  splendor  it  was 

not  lost  to  sight  until  after  16  months. 
There  have  been  other  instances  of  outbursts  of  short- 
lived bright,  stars,  and  in  the  annals  of  the  years  1  205  and 
952  some  brief  notice's  have  been  found  which  may 
have  referred  to  objects  of  this  class,  but  more  probably 
described  comets.  The  guess  was  then  hazarded  that 
these  three  events  might  all  refer  to  the  same  object; 
that  the  star  in  ('asxiopcia  might  be  a  "variable*"  star, 
bursting  into  brilliancy  about  every  350  years  or  so; 
that  it  was  the  star  that  announced  the  birth  of  Our 
Lord,  and  that  it  would  reappear  about  the  end  of  the 
19th  cent,  to  announce  His  second  coming.  This  rumor 
was  widely  spread,  and  from  time  to  time  ignorant  people 
have  noticed,  the  planet  Venus  which  shines  with  extraor- 
dinary brilliancy  when  in  particular  parts  of  her  orbit, 
and  have  imagined,  esp.  when  she  has  been  thus  seen  as 
a  morning  star  in  the  east,  that  she  was  none  other  than 
the  star  of  Bethlehem  at  its  predicted  return.  There  is 
no  reason  to  suppose  that  the  star  of  1572  had  ever 
appeared  before  that  date  or  will  ever  appear  again; 
but  in  any  case  we  are  perfectly  sure  that  it  could  not  have 
been  the  star  of  Bethlehem,  for  Cassiopeia  is  a  northern 
constellation,  and  the  wise  men  in  their  journey  from 
Jerus  to  Bethlehem  had  Cassiopeia  and  all  her  stars 
behind  their  back. 

The  statement  that  the  star  "went  before"  the 
Magi  gives  the  impression  that  it  was  some  super- 
natural light  like  the  sh''khlndh,  "glory,"  resting 
upon  the  tabernacle,  or  the  pillar  of  fire  which  led  tin* 
children  of  Israel  through  the  wilderness.  But  this 
view  raises  the  questions  as  to  the  form  in  which  it 
first  appeared  to  the  wrise  men,  when  they  were  still 
in  the  East,  and  how  they  came  to  call  it  a  star, 
when  they  must  have  recogni/cd  how  un-starlike  it 
was.  On  the  oilier  hand,  if  what  they  saw  when 
in  the  East  was  really  a  star,  it  seems  most  difficult 
to  understand  how  it  can  have  appeared  to  go 
before  them  and  to  stand  over  the  place  where  the 
young  Child  lay. 

Yet  there  is  a  legend  still  current  in  Pal  which 

may  possibly  explain  how  an  actual  star  may  have 

fulfilled  this  part,  and  there  is  a  well 

8.  The  at   Bethlehem   that  is  still  shown   to 
Legend  of      pilgrims  as   the  means  whereby   the 
the  Well         wise  men  "saw  the  star"  the  second 

time.  It  is  said  that  when  they  had 
reached  Bethlehem,  apparently  nearly  at  mid-day, 
one  of  them  went  to  the  well  of  the  inn  in  order  to 
draw  wat  er.  Looking  down  into  the  well  he  saw  the 
star  reflected  from  the  surface  of  the  water  and 
knew  that  it  must  be  directly  overhead.  Its  re-ob- 
servation under  such  unusual  circumstances  would 
be  a  sufficient  assurance  to  the  Magi  that  they  had 


reached  the  right  place,  and  inquiry  in  the  inn 
would  soon  inform  (hem  of  the  visit  of  the  shep- 
herds, and  of  (he  angelic  message  \sluch  had  (old 
(hem  where  lo  find  I  he  babe  'born  in  the  city  of 
David,  the  Saviour,  which  is  Christ  I  he  Lord.' 

If  we  may  accept,  Ihis  legend  we  may  lake  (lie 
star  as  having  been  what  astronomers  know  as  a 
"new"  or  "temporary"  star,  like  that  of  l.")72. 
When  the  Magi  first  saw  it,  and  in  consequence  set 
out  upon  their  journey,  it  may  have  been  an 
evening  star  and  thus,  being  seen  only  in  the  west 
shortly  after  sunset,  it,  would  appear,  evening  after 
evening,  to  point  them  their  way  to  Judaea.  As 
they  journeyed  thither  it  probably  faded  as  tem- 
porary si  ars  in  general  quickly  do.  At  the  same 
time  it  would  have  drawn  nearer  and  nearer  to  the 
sun,  until  it  was  lost  in  its  rays  by  the  time  they 
reached  Jerus,  when  they  would  seem  to  have  lost 
sight  of  it  altogether.  'Having  thus  lost  it,  they 
would  naturally  not  expect  to  sec  it  again  until  it 
had  drawn  away  from  the  sun  on  the  other  side,  and 
been  detected  as  a  morning  star  in  the  east  b<v 
fore  sunrise;  they  would  not  expect  to  discover  it 
in  the  daytime. 

In  the  ordinary  way,  the  planet  Venus  is,  after 
the  two  "great  lights,"  the  brightest  object  in  the 
heavens,  but  temporary  stars  are  on  record  that 
have  even  exceeded  Venus  in  brightness.  The 
difficulty  of  seeing  the  planet  Venus  in  full  sunshine 
does  not  lie  in  her  want  of  brightness,  but  in  picking 
up  and  holding  steadily  so  minute  a  point  of  light. 
in  the  broad  expanse  of  the  gleaming  sky.  This 
difficulty,  which  would  be  oven  greater  in 'the  case 
of  a  star,  would  be  lessened  by  looking  down  the  well, 
as  the  shaft  would  narrow  the  field  of  view  down  to 
a  small  area,  and  would  direct  the  observer's  gaze 
straight  to  the  st  ar.  There  may  also  have  been ,  at 
the  very  time  of  observation,  a  temporary  revival 
of  the  brightness  of  the  star  as  has  been  recorded 
in  the  case  of  one  or  two  objects  of  the  same 
class.  The  legend,  whether  well  founded  or  not, 
seems  to  have  some  as)  ronomical  verisimilitude,  and 
at  any  rate  suggests  a  mode  in  which  an  actual  star 
could  have  seemed  to  stand  over  the  place  where 
the  young  Child  lay.  It  would  also  explain  what 
seems  to  have  been  implied  in  the  narrative,  how 
it  happened  that  the  Magi  alone,  and  not  the  Jews 
in  general,  perceived  the  star  at  its  second  appear- 
ance. 

Yet  it  seems  safer  to  conclude  that  the  narrative 
has  been  purposely  left — astronomically — too  in- 
complete for  any  astronomical  con- 
9.  Lesson  elusion  to  be  drawn  from  it.  One 
of  the  Nar-  verse  more',  and  that  a  short  one,  could 
rative  have;  answered  all  our  inquiries,  could 

have  told  us  whether  the  star  was  a 
conjunction  of  the  plane) s,  a  comet,  or  a  temporary 
star;  or  whether  it  was  a  supernatural  light  like  the 
pillar  of  fire  in  the  wilderness.  But  that  verse 
has  not  been  given.  The  score  of  additional  words 
which  could  have  cleared  up  the  matter  have  been 
withheld,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  as  to  the  reason. 
The  star,  whatever  its  physical  nature,  was  of  no 
importance  except  as  a  guide  to  the  birthplace  of  (he 
infant  Jesus.  The  reticence  of  the  gospel  narra- 
tive on  all  points,  except  those  directly  relating 
to  Our  Lord  Himself,  enforces  the  truth  that  the 
Scriptures  were  not  writ  ten  to  instruct  us  in  astron- 
omy, or  in  any  of  the  physical  sciences,  but  that  we 
might  have  life  eternal  (Jn  17  3). 

E.  W.   MAUNDER 
STAR  OF  WORMWOOD.     See  WORMWOOD. 

STARS,  COURSES  OF.     See  ASTRONOMY,  1,1. 

STARS,    FALLING;    MORNING;    WANDER- 
ING.    See  ASTRONOMY,  1,  S;    1,7;   1,9. 


Stars,  Seven 
Stephen 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2sr,o 


STARS,  SEVEN.     See  ASTRONOMY. 

STATELY,  st  [it'll  (rTTQS,  k'bhuddah,  "weight," 
"honor,"  "wealth"):  ''And  sit  upon  :i  stately 
[magnificent]  bed"  (Ezk  23  41). 

STATER,  sta'ter  (o-Tarrip,  slattr)  :  T'sed  only  once, 
Mt  17  27,  whore  it  is  rendered  by  "piece  of  money" 

in  AV  and  "shekel"  in  RV.  It  was  originally  a 
standard  Gr  weight  equal  to  two  drachmas,  but 
later  it,  was  used  to  designate"  the  tetradrachma, 
and  this  is  probably  the  coin  referred  to  in  the  above 
passage.  See  MONKY. 


STATURE,  st  at/fir  (""?  ,  madh,  rnft  ,  middah, 
"measure"  [Nu  13  32,  etc],  Httip,  fconidh,  "stand- 
ing up"  [1  S  16  7,  etc];  T)\i.K(a,  hclik'm,  "great- 
ness")' This  last  word  means  "height  of  the  body," 
"stature,"  in  Lk  2  ;V2;  19  3;  Eph  4  13,  but  it 
can  moan  "length  of  life"  equally  well  and  has  this 
force  in  .In  9  21.23;  He  11  11.  And  this  mean- 
ing, not  "stature"  (as  in  AV),  is  fixed  for  Alt  6  27 
Lk  12  2f>,  for  to  add  some  IS  inches  (see  CUBIT) 
to  one's  "stature"  would  be  a  grotesque  feat,  while 
it  is  the  smallness  of  the  act  that  is  emphasized. 
Hence  the  tr  "able  to  extend  his  long  path  of  life  by 
a  single  cubit"  (RV  "measure  of  life").  Cf  also 
"great  of  stature,"  Bar  3  20  (efyeytdris,  eumegtthes')  . 

Brirro.v  SCOTT  EASTO.V 

STAVES,  stavz  (S'H?  ,  btiddJnt'):  Ten  or  eleven 
Heb  words  are  used  in  the  OT  to  describe  various 
staffs,  bars,  and  wooden  rods  used  by  the  Hebrews 
(of  STAFF;  ROD;  SCKPTKH).  One  word  only  is 
used  to  describe  the  staves  or  wooden  poles  used 
for  carrying  the  holy  furniture  of  the  tabernacle 
from  place  to  place.  That  word  is  badh  (p\.baddlm)  , 
which  occurs  2S  t  in  Kx  and  Nu  and  •">  t  in  K  and 
Ch  (cf  also  Job  17  Hi;  Hos  11  0).  The  only  pas- 
sage in  which  these  staves  are  mentioned  by  another 
name  is  1  Ch  15  15,  where  the  staves  used  for 
carrying  the  ark  from  its  captivity  into  Jorus  are 
called  nidt-ah.  The  reason  for  this  probably  is  that 
the  original  baddJm  had  been  lost  during  the  long 
absence  of  the  sacred  chest  from  its  home  in  the 
tabernacle. 

In  the  wilderness  wanderings,  arrangements  were 
made  that  four  items  of  the  holy  furniture  of  the 
portable  tabernacle  should  be  carried  on  the 
shoulders  of  Lovitos,  suspended  on  these  staves. 
Those  were  the.  golden  altar  of  incense,  the  golden 
table  for  showbread,  the  bra/en  altar  of  sacrifice, 
and  the  ark  of  the  covenant  (Ex  35  12-10). 

In  the  case  of  the  large;  altar  of  sacrifice,  which 
was  in  reality  a  hollow  wooden  chest  covered  with 
brass  (bronze)  plates  (see  ALTAK),  four  rings  wore 
attached  to  the  brass  grating  which  rose  midway 
in  the  chest,  and  through  these  rings  the  staves 
passed.  The  staves  were  of  acacia  wood  and  were 
covered  with  brass  plating.  In  the  case  of  the 
three  golden  utensils  of  the  sanctuary,  the  staves 
were  of  acacia  wood,  covered  with  gold  plates. 

The  last  mention  of  any  of  those  staves  is  in  1  K 
8  7-9,  where  it  is  stated  of  the  ark,  in  the  holy  of  ho- 
lies in  Solomon's  Temple,  that  the  ends  of  its  staves 
were  seen  by  anyone  standing  in  the  adjoining 
holy  place,  before  (i.e.  cast  of)  the  oracle.  Priests 
only  might  view  them  there,  the  curtain  being  with- 
drawn. The  writer  of  1  K  8  adds  that  the  staves 
were  thus  visible  when  he  wrote,  an  item  of  evidence 
worthy  of  note  as  to  the  date  of  the  document, 

W.  SHAW  CALDECOTT 

STAY,  sta:  Is  derived  from  two  distinct  forms. 
From  one  derivation  it  has  the  meaning  "to  stand" 
and  so  "to  continue  in  one  place"  (Gen  8  10; 
Lev  13  23.28,  etc),  "to  forbear  to  act"  (Ruth  1  13), 
"to  rest,"  "to  be  trustful"  (AV,  ERV  Isa  10  20; 


see  below).  Transitively  it  means  "to  cause  to 
stay,"  "to  hinder"  (Dnl  4  35,  etc),  and  "stay" 
as  a  noun  means  "cessation  of  progress"  (Lev  13 
o.37),  "sojourn."  From  the  second  derivation  the 
vb.  mean's  "to  support"  (Ex  17  12;  1  K  22  35; 
Cant  2  5),  while  the  noun  means  "a  support" 
(1  Iv  10  19;  Isa  3  1,  etc).  ARV  has  judged 
obsolete  "stay  on"  in  the  sense  "trust  in,"  and  for 
"stay"  has  substituted  "lean"  in  Isa  10  20  and 
"rely"  in  30  12;  31  1 ;  50  10,  although  "stay 
themselves  upon"  (  =  "support  themselves  by")  has 
boon  kept  in  48  2.  Otherwise  RV  has  made;  few 
alterations.  But  such  as  have  been  made;  ("tarry 
ye"  for  "stay  yourselves"  in  Isa  29  1)  and  ARV  "re- 
strain" for  ""stay"  in  Job  37  4)  could  have  been 
carried  farther  with  advantage. 

BTRTOX  SCOTT  EASTON 

STEAD,  sfod,  STEADS,  stedz  (PHP ,  tahalh, 
"[same]  place";  AS  stcd<\  "place"):  Occurs  only  in 
1  Ch  5  22,  "They  dwelt  in  their  stead  [place]  until 
the  captivity." 

STEALING,     ste'ling.     See    CHIMKS;      PUMSH- 

MF.NTS. 

STEDFASTNESS,  sted'fast-nos:  (1)  ffrep^^a, 
stcrcuntu,  "firmness":  "The  stedfastness  of  your 
faith  in  Christ"  (Col  2  5).  Some  take  this  fig- 
uratively, in  a  military  sense,  of  a  "solid  front"  (see 
Thayer,  Gr-Eni/.  Lex  of  \T,  s.v.).  (2)  irrepiy^, 
stcrigmos,  "stability"  (2  Pet  3  17;  cf  1  Cor  15  58). 

STEEL,  stel:  RV  substitutes  "brass"  for  "steel" 
in  2  S  22  35;  Job  20  24;  Ps  18  34;  Jer  15  12,  and 
"steel"  for  "torches"  in  Nah  2  3.  See  BRASS. 

STEPHANAS,  stef'a-nas  (Srecjmvds,  Stephanas): 
The  name  occurs  only  in  1  Cor  1  10;  16  15-18. 
St  ophanas  was  a  Christ  ian  of  Corinth ;  his  household 
is  mentioned  in  1  Cor  16  15  as  the  first  family 
won  to  Christ  in  Aohaia,  and  in  1  Cor  1  10  as 
among  the  few  personally  baptized  by  Paul  at 
Corinth.  The  "house  of  "Stephanas,"  apparently 
of  independent  means,  had  "set  themselves  t  o  minis- 
ter unto  the  saints"  ( 1  Cor  16  15),  i.e.  to  do  Chris- 
tian service.  Possibly  this  service  consisted  in 
putting  their  house  at  "the  disposal  of  the  Christians 
at  Corinth  for  worshipping,  or  in  rendering  especial 
assistance  in  establishing  intercommunication  be- 
tween the  Corinthian  church  and  the  apostle,  or 
the  other  churches.  An  instance  of  such  service  was 
the  commission  of  S.  at  Ephesus  referred  to  in  1  Cor 
16  17. IS.  At  the  occasion  of  some  disorders  in 
the  Corinthian  church  S.,  with  Fortunatus  and 
Achaicus  in  the  deputation,  brought  a  letter  of 
the  Corinthians  to  Paul.  Our  present  1  Cor  is 
the  reply  to  this  letter,  and  thus,  in  all  probability, 
the  three  men  mentioned  above  were  the  bearers  of 
this  ep.  With  fine  courtesy  Paul  expresses  his 
appreciation  for  this  service  in  1  Cor  16  18,  refer- 
ring to  it  as  a  cherished  opportunity  of  fellowship 
with  his  beloved  Corinthians  through  these  repre- 
sentatives. It  is  in  consideration  of  such  Christian 
service  that  Paul  enjoins  upon  the  Corinthians  to 
.show  the  house  of  S.  that  respect  and  deference  due 
to  Christian  leaders  by  willingly  submitting  to  their 
direction.  S-  D-  PRESS 

STEPHEN,  ste'v'n  (Sre^avos,  Stephanos,  "crown" 
[Acts  6  5—8  12]): 

1.  His  Personal  Antecedents 

2.  His  Character  and  Activity 

3.  His  Teaching 

4  His  Arraignment  before  the  Sannearln 

5  His  Defence  before  the  Sanhedrin 

(1)  Personal  Defence 

(2)  Defence  of  His  Teaching 
6.  Martyrdom  of  Stephen 
LITERATURE 


2851 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Stars,  Seven 
Stephen 


Known  host  as  the  proto-martyr  of  the  Christian 
church,  introducing  the  heroic  period  of  persccu- 
t  ions.  He  deserves  as  well  to  he  called  the  first  great 
apologist  for  Christianity,  since  it  was  this  that 
brought  on  his  death  as  a  martyr  (c  30  or  37  AD). 

As  his  name  and  his  relations  in  the  church  at 
Jems  seem  to  imply  (Acts  6  3  ff),  he  was  a  Hellen- 
ist, i.e.  a  Greek-speaking  Jew.  Thus  he 

1.  Personal  belonged  to  that  class  of  Jews  usually 
Antecedents  residing  outside  of   Pal  who,   though 

distinguished  from  the  orthodox  Pales- 
tinian Jew  by  a  broader  outlook  on  life  due  to  a 
more  liberal  education,  were  Jews  none  the  less, 
the  original  Jewish  element  predominating  in  their 
character,  and  who  might  be  true  Israelites  indeed, 
as  Stephen  was.  Of  his  conversion  to  Christianity 
we  know  nothing,  though  there  is  a  tradition  that 
he  was  among  the  Seventy.  As  Stephen  by  his  life 
and  work  marks  a  period  of  transition  in  the  develop- 
ment of  the  early  Christian  church,  so  his  name  is 
connected  with  an  important  new  departure  within 
the  organization  of  the  church  itself,  viz.  the  insti- 
tution of  the  office  of  the  Seven  (Acts  6  1  ff),  who 
were  intrusted  with  the  administration  of  the  work 
of  relief  in  the  church  at  Jerus — the  foundation  of 
the  diaconate  (Iren.,  Flacr.,  i.26;  Cyprian,  Epist., 
iii.3).  Of  the  seven  men,  all  Hellenists,  elected  to 
this  office  at  the  occasion  of  a  grievance  of  the 
Hellenistic  Christians  in  the  Jerus  church  against 
the  Ileb  Christians,  to  the  effect  that  in  the  dis- 
tribution of  alms  their  widows  were  being  dis- 
criminated against,  Stephen,  who  heads  the  list, 
is  by  far  the  most  distinguished. 

Stephen  more  than  met  the  requirements  of  the 

office  to  which  he  was  elected  (Acts  63);  the  record 

characterizes  him   as   "a  man  full  of 

2.  Char-        faith  and  of  the  Holy  Spirit"  (Acts  6  5), 
acter  and       i.e.  of  an  enthusiastic  faith  and  of  a 
Activity          deep  spirituality,  and  his  activity  was 

not  restricted  to  the  functions  of  his 
office;  in  fact  while  nothing  is  said  of  the  manner 
in  which  he  fulfilled  the  duties  of  his  office,  though 
without  doubt  he  fulfilled  them  faithfully,  the 
record  makes  it  very  clear  that  the  importance  of 
Stephen  lay  in  his  activity  as  a  preacher,  a  witness 
for  Christ;  it  is  this  activity  which  has  given  him 
the  place  he  holds  in  history  (Acts  22  20).  In 
itself  that  is  not  surprising,  for  in  the  early  Christian 
church  every  Christian  was  at  once  a  witness  for 
Christ,  and  lay-preaching  was  common.  The 
Seven  from  the  first  were  occupied  with  essentially 
spiritual  work,  as  also  the  later  diaconate  was  en- 
gaged in  something  far  different  from  mere  charity 
organization.  But  Stephen  was  esp.  qualified  for 
this  high  work,  having  been  endued  by  the  Holy 
Spirit  writh  apostolical  gifts,  not  only  that  of  preach- 
ing, but  also  that  of  working  miracles  (Acts  6  8). 
In  his  freer  views  of  Jewish  law  and  customs,  due  to 
his  deeper  conception  and  better  understanding  of 
the  essence  of  Christianity,  he  even  excelled  the 
apostles. 

He  burst  the  bonds  of  Judaism,  by  which  the 
other  apostles  were  still  bound,  by  teaching  that 

the  temple  and  the  Law  of  Moses  were 

3.  Teaching  evanescent  and  that  Christianity  was 

destined  to  supersede  Judaism  (Acts 
6  14).  These  freer  views  of  Stephen,  though  pos- 
sibly attributable  to  his  Hellenic  culture,  were 
certainly  not  of  Hellenistic  origin,  for  just  their 
promulgation  is  what  brought  him  into  controversy 
with  the  Hellenistic  synagogues  of  Jerus.  Though 
the  Hellenist  dispensed  himself  from  keeping  all 
of  the  Pharisaic  additions  to  the  Law,  he  always 
regarded  the  Law  of  Moses  and  the  temple  at 
Jerus  as  highly  as  the  Palestinian  Jew.  Even 
Philo  characterizes  the  Law  of  Moses  in  distinction 
from  the  laws  of  other  nations,  as  stedfast,  immov- 


able and  unchangeable,  placing  it  on  a  level  with 
the  laws  of  Nature.  The  true  source  of  Stephen's 
freer  views  of  the  Mosaic  Law  and  the  temple  was 
Christ's  own  teachings,  Stephen  showing  a  wonder- 
fully ripened  understanding  of  them,  paralleled  only 
by  that  of  Paul  some  time  later.  Christ's  word's 
regarding  the  temple  (Jn  4  20-24;  Mk  13  2)  not 
only  led  Stephen  to  see  that  the  true  worship  of  God 
was  not  confined  to  the  temple,  but  opened  his  eyes 
as  to  the  purely  formal  character  of  this  worship  in 
that  day,  which,  far  from  being  true  worship,  had 
become  a  mere  ceremonialism  (Mk  7  6),  and  in  the 
words  of  Christ  (Jn  2  19)  he  saw  an  intimation  of 
the  new  temple  which  was  to  take  the  place  of  the 
old.  Thus  also  his  conception  of  the  transitory 
nature  of  the  Mosaic  Law  may  be  traced  to 
Christ's  teaching  as  to  the  Sabbath,  the  laws 
of  purifying,  the  fulfilment  of  the  Law  and  Jew- 
ish customs  of  the  day  (Alt  5  20)  and  of  a  better 
righteousness  than  that  of  the  Pharisees  and  scribes 
(Mt  9  16).  _  As  Christ  had  been  drawn  into  con- 
troversy with  Pharisees  and  scribes  on  account 
of  these  freer  views,  and  as  His  word  about  the 
temple  was  used  to  frame  the  accusation  against 
Him  in  His  trial,  so  also  in  the  case  of  Stephen. 
He  did  not  hesitate  to  preach  his  views,  choosing 
the  Hellenistic  synagogues  for  this  purpose,  and 
soon  became  engaged  in  controversies  there.  But, 
as  the  record  says,  his  opponents  "were  not  able  to 
withstand  the  wisdom,"  i.e.  better  understanding, 
convincing  knowledge,  "and  the  Spirit,"  i.e.  the 
deep  earnestness  and  spirituality,  "by  which  he; 
spake"  so  convincingly  (Acts  6  10;  Mt  10  19.20). 
Seeing  themselves  beaten,  they  took  recourse  to 
the  ignoble  method  of  declaring  him  a  blasphemer 
and  a  heretic,  by  using  the  same  foul  means  that 
the  enemies  of  Jesus  had  resorted  to,  by  suborning 
false  witnesses  to  the  plot,  by  stirring  up  the  people 
against  him,  by  appealing  to  their  Jewish  prejudices 
and  to  the  scribes  and  elders,  members  of  the  San- 
hedrin,  and  thus  eventually  brought  about  his 
arraignment. 

The  accusation  which  they  brought  against  him, 
through  the  introduction  of  false  witnesses,  included 
a  twofold  charge,  one  against  his 
4.  Arraign-  person,  a  charge  of  blasphemous  words 
ment  before  against  Moses  which  would  make  him 
the  San-  also  a  blasphemer  of  God,  and  one 
hedrin  against  his  teaching,  charging  him 

with  revolutionary  and  radical  state- 
ments concerning  the  temple  and  the  Law  (cf  Mk 
14  58;  13  2;  15  29). 

"Customs  of  Moses"  (Acts  6  14)  were  the  institu- 
tions that  distinguished  the  Jews  and  that  were  de- 
rived from  Moses.  By  his  reference  to  "this  place" 
and  "these  customs"  Stephen  was  understood  to  imply 
the  destruction  of  the  temple  and  the  change  of  the 
Law,  Christianity  thus  aiming  not  only  at  the  over- 
throw of  the  Jews'  religion  but  the  very  termination  of 
their  national  existence. 

The  charge  against  Stephen's  person  was  a  base- 
less accusation.  There  was  no  blasphemy  on  the 
part  of  Stephen,  save  by  perversion  of  his  words. 
The  charge  against  his  teaching  was  both  false  and 
true.  It  was  false  as  an  implied  insinuation  that 
he  impugned  the  Divine  origin  and  charact  er  of  1  he 
temple  and  the  Mosaic  Law,  but  it  was  true  as  far 
as  he  conceived  both  to  be  only  of  a  temporary 
nature  and  serving  a  merely  provisional  purpose, 
which,  as  we  have  seen,  constituted  the  peculiarity 
of  his  teaching.  As  in  the  trial  of  Christ,  the  judge, 
Pontius  Pilate,  read  his  true  verdict,  "I  find  no 
guilt  in  him,"  written  on  His  countenance  and  whole 
bearing,  thus  here  the  record  tells  us  that  the  judges 
of  Stephen,  "All  that  sat  in  the  council  ....  saw 
his  face  as  it  had  been  the  face  of  an  angel"  (Acts 
6  15;  2  Cor  3  18);  as  if  in  refutation  of  the 
charge  made  against  him,  Stephen  receives  the 


Stephen 
Steward 


Till-;  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  IUULE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2852 


same  mark  of  Diviiu>  favor  which  had  been  granted 
1o  Moses.  It  is  a  significant  fact  thai  Stephen  was 
not  arraigned  before  the  Sanhedrin  as  being 
a  Nazarene,  though  at  bottom  it  was  the  real 
cause  of  his  arraignment.  Thus  also  his  defence! 
before  the  Sanhedrin,  though  the  name  of  Jesus  was 
not  mentioned  until  the  very  last,  was  in  reality  a 
grand  apology  for  Christ. 

While  the  assembly  was  overawed  by  the  evi- 
dence of  singular  innocence  and  holiness  written 

upon  the  countenance  of  Stephen 
6.  Defence  (Acts  6  15),  the  question  of  the  high 
before  the  priest  "Are  these  things  so?"  broke  in 
Sanhedrin  upon  the  silence.  It  drew  forth 

from  Stephen  that  masterful  pleading 
which,  so  sublime  in  form  and  content  and  bare 
of  all  artificiality,  belongs  to  the  highest  type 
of  oratory,  characterized  by  its  deep,  earnest,  and 
genuine  spirituality,  the  kind  of  oratory  of  which 
the  great  speeches  of  our  own  martyred  Lincoln 
were  models.  It  is  not  so  much  a  plea  in  self- 
defence  as  a  grand  apology  for  the  cause  which 
Stephen  represents. 

Beginning  by  mentioning  "  the  God  of  glory"  and 
ending  with  a  vision  of  that  glory  itself,  the  speech  is  a 
wonderful  apotheosis  of  the  humble  cause  of  the  Nazarene, 
the  enthusiastic  tribute  of  its  first  great,  martyr  delivered 
in  the  face  of  death.  The  contents  of  his  speech  are  a 
recital  of  the  most  marked  phases  of  Jewish  history  in 
the  past,  but  as  read  from  the  point  of  view  of  its  out- 
workings:  in  the  present — old  facts  interpreted  by  a  spirit- 
filled  disciple  of  Christ.  It  is  in  reality  a  philosophy  of 
Israel's  history  and  religion,  and  in  so  far1  it  was  a  iiorum. 
Thus  the  new  feature  that  it  furnishes  is  its  philosophy 
of  this  history  which  might  be  termed  the  Christian 
philosophy  of  Jewish  history.  In  appealing  to  their 
reason  he 'calls  up  picture  after  picture  from  Abraham  to 
Moses;  the  speech  exhibits  vividly  the  continuity  and  the 
progress  of  the  Divine  revelation  which  culminated  in 
Jesus  of  Nazareth,  the  same  thought  as  that  expressed  by 
Christ  in  Mt  5  17  of  the  principal  agreement  between  the 
OT  and  the  NT  revelation. 

The  emotional  appeal  lies  in  the  reverential  and  feeling 
manner  in  which  he  handles  the  history  sacred  to  them 
all.  The  strong  appeal  to  the  will  is  made  by  holding  up 
the  figure  of  Moses'  type  of  the  La\v,  in  its  vital  signifi- 
cance, in  such  a  way  as  passionately  to  apply  it  to  the 
fundamental  relation  of  Divine  plan  and  human  conduct. 
Thus  the  aim  of  Stephen  was  to  point  out  to  his  hearers 
the  true  meaning  of  Jewish  history  and  Jewish  Law 
in  reference  to  the  present,  i.e.  in  such  a  way  that  they 
miu'ltt  better  understand  and  judge  the  present  and 
adjust  their  conduct  to  it  accordingly.  Their  knowledge 
of  Jewish  history  and  Jewish  religion  as  he  would  convey 
it  to  them  would  compel  them  to  clear  him  of  the  accusa- 
tion against  him  as  blasphemer  and  false  teacher. 

In  accordance  with  the  accusation  against  him, 
his  defence  was  a  twofold  one:  personal  defence 
and  defence  of  his  teaching. 

(1)  Personal  defence,— The  charge  of  blasphemy 
against  God  and  contempt  of  the  Law  is  implicitly 
repudiated  by  the  tenor  of  the  whole  speech.     The 
courteous  and  at  once,  endearing  terms  in  Stephen's 
address  (Acts  7  2)   to  the  council,  and  the  terms 
"our  fat  hers1'  and  "our  race"  in  vs  'J.19  by  which 
he  closely  associates  himself  with  his  hearers,  his 
declaration  of  the  Divine  majesty  of  Jell  with  which 
the  speech  opens  (ver  2),  of  the  providential  leading 
of  the  patriarchs  (vs  S.10),  his  recognition  of  the 
OT  institutions  as    Divinely  decreed    (ver  8),   his 
reference  to  the  Divine  sanction  of  the  Law  and  its 
condemnation  of  those  who  had   not   kept  it  (ver 
53),   at  the  close  of  his  speech,   show  clearly  his 
reverence,  not  only  for  the  past  history  of  the  Jewish 
race,  but  as  well  for  its  Sacred  Writings  and  all  of  its 
religious   institutions.     It    makes    evident   beyond 
doubt  how  ungrounded  t  he  accusation  of  blasphemy 
against  him  was.     Not  to  impiety  or  frivolity  in 
Stephen,  but  to  some  other  cause,  must  be  due  there- 
fore the  difference  between  him  and  his  opponents. 
What  it  is  Stephen  himself  shows  unmistakenly  in 
the  second  part  of  his  defence. 

(2)  Defence   of  his   tmcliiiuj. — The   fundamental 
differences  between  Stephen  and  his  opponents,  as  is 


evident  from  the  whole  tone  and  drift  and  purpose 
of  his  speech,  lay  in  that  he  judged  OT  history  from 
the  prophetical  point  of  view,  to  which  Jesus  had 
also  allied  Himself,  while  his  opponents  represented 
the  legalistic  point  of  view,  so  characteristic  of  the 
Jewish  thought  of  that  day.  The  significance  of 
this  difference  is  borne  out  by  the  fact  upon  which 
Stephen's  refutation  hinges,  viz.  the  fact,  proved 
by  the  history  of  the  past,  that  the  development  of 
the  Divine  revelation  and  the  development  of  the 
Jewish  nation,  so  far  from  combining,  move  in 
divergent  lines,  due  to  a  disposition  of  obstinate 
disobedience  on  the  part  of  their  fathers,  and  that 
therefore  not  he  but  they  were  disobedient  to  the 
Divine  revelation.  Thus  in  a  masterful  way  Ste- 
phen converts  the  charge  of  Antinomianism  and 
anti-Mosaism  brought  against  him  into  a  counter- 
charge of  disobedience  to  the  Divine  revelation, 
of  which  his  hearers  stood  guilty  in  the  present  as 
their  fathers  had  in  the  past.  In  this  sense  the 
speech  of  Stephen  is  a  grand  apology  for  the  Chris- 
tian cause  which  he  represented,  inasmuch  as  it 
shows  clearly  that  the  new  reliirion  was  only  the 
Divinely  ordered  development  of  the  old,  and  not 
in  opposition  to  it. 

The  main  arguments  of  the  speech  may  be  summed  up 
as  follows:  (</)  Cod's  self-manifestation  to  Israel  in 
revealing  His  covenant  and  His  will,  so  far  from  being 
bound  to  one  sanctuary  and  conveyed  to  one  single  person 
(Moses),  began  long  before  Moses  and  long  before  there 
was  a  temple.  Thus  it  was  gradual,  and  as  it  had  begun 
before  Moses  it  was  not  completed  by  him,  as  is  evident 
from  his  own  words,  "A  prophet  shall  God  raise  up  unto 
you  from  among  your  brethren,  like  unto  mo"  (Acts  7 
2-37). 

(/O  The  Jews  to  whom  these  revelations  were  granted, 
so  far  from  being  thankful  at  all  stages  of  their  history, 
hud  been  slow  to  believe  and  understand  them  because 
they  "would  not  be  obedient"  (vs  3!). 57).  They  resisted 
the  purpose  of  God  by  obstinately  and  stiif-neckedly 
opposing  those  through  whom  Cod  worked.  Thus 
their  fathers  had  turned  away  from  Moses  at  the  very 
moment  when  he  was  receiving  Cod's  greatest  revelation, 
and,  instead  of  obeying  the  "living  oracles"  (ver  I-SS)  ho 
gave  them,  turned  to  idol-worship  for  which  God  pun- 
ished them  by  the  Bab  captivity  (vs  :50-i:().  They  had 
killed  the  prophets  who  had  protested  against  the  dead 
ritualism  of  the  temple-worship  and  raised  their  voice 
iti  behalf  of  a  true  spiritual  worship  as  that  of  the  taber- 
nacle had  been  (vs  44-50.52).  This  disposition  of  dis- 
obedience so  characteristic  of  the  race  in  its  whole 
history,  because,  in  spite  of  the  Divine  revelation 
received,  they  remained  unregenerate  (ver  51),  reached 
its  culmination  in  that  awful  crime  of  betrayal  and 
murder  committed  by  the  present  generation  upon  the 
"Righteous  One"  whose  coming  the  prophets  had  pre- 
dicted— the  rejection  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  by  which  the 
Jews  doomed  not  only  their  national  existence,  but  also 
their  temple-worship"  and  the  reign  of  the  Law  to 
destruction  (7  52—6  14). 

Though  the  name  of  Jesus  was  not  uttered  by  Stephen 
in  his  speech  and  does  not  occur  until  in  his  dying  prayer, 
his  hearers  could  not  fail  to  notice  the  hidden  reference 
to  Him  throughout  the  entire  speech  and  to  draw 
parallels  intended  by  Stephen:  As  Joseph  and  Moses, 
types  of  the  Messiah,  had  been  rejected,  scorned  and  ill- 
treated  (Acts  7  9.27.39),  before  being  raised  to  bo  ruler 
and  deliverer,  so  Jesus  had  also  been  repulsed  by  them. 

The  climax  of  his  speech  is  readied  in  vs  51-5.'!, 
when  Stephen,  breaking  off  the  line  of  argument, 
suddenly  in  direct  address  turns  tipon  his  hearers, 
and,  the  accused  becoming  the  accuser,  charges 
them  openly  with  the  sin  of  resisting  the  Holy  Spirit , 
with  the  murder  of  the  prophets  and  the  Righteous 
One,  and  with  continual  disobedience  to  the  Law. 
These  words  which  mark  the  climax,  though  prob- 
ably not  the  close  of  the  speech,  pointed  the  moral 
in  terms  of  the  most  cutting  rebuke,  and  were  at 
once  prophetical  as  to  the  effect  the  speech  would 
have  upon  his  hearers  and  for  him. 

Such  arguing  and  directness  as  Stephen's  could 
have  but  one  result.  Prejudiced  and  enraged  as 
they  were,  the  unanswerable  arguments  of  Stephen, 
based  on  their  own  Scriptures,  made  them  mad 
with  fury,  and  doubtless  through  their  demonstra- 
tions they  stopped  the  speech.  But  Stephen, 


2853 


TIIK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Stephen 
Steward 


transported  with  enthusiasm  and  inspiration,  was 
vouchsafed  a  vision  of  the  "glory  of  Clod,"  which 
he  had  mentioned  in  the  beginning  of 
6.  Martyr-  his  speech  (7  2),  and  of  Jesus,  whose 
dom  of  cause  lie  had  so  gallantly  defended 

Stephen  (ver  5">).  Stephen  standing  there,  his 
gaze  piercing  into  heaven,  while  time 
and  human  limitations  seemed  effaced  for  him, 
marks  one  of  the  most  historic  moments  in  the 
history  of  Israel,  as  his  words  constitute  the  most, 
memorable  testimony  ever  uttered  in  behalf  of 
Christ :  "Behold,  I  see  the  heavens  opened,  and  the 
Son  of  man" — the  only  place  where  this  title  is 
uttered  by  any  other  person  than  Jesus — ''standing 
on  the  right  hand  of  God"  (ver  f>6).  Now  the  audi- 
ence; could  restrain  its  rage  no  longer,  and  the  catas- 
trophe followed  immediately.  Contrary  to  Rom 
law  and  order  they  took  Stephen,  and  without  await- 
ing sentence  against  him,  amid  a  tumultuous  scene, 
stoned  him  to  death,  the  punishment  prescribed 
in  Mosaic  Law  for  a  blasphemer  (Dt  17  7;  Lev 
24  1  •!-!()).  This  recourse  to  lynch  law  may  have 
been  connived  at  by  the  Rom  authorities,  since 
the  act  was  without  political  significance.  It  is 
noteworthy,  however,  that  the  Jewish  legal  forms 
were  observed,  as  if  to  give  to  the  violence  the 
appearance  of  legality.  Accordingly,  Stephen  was 
taken  outside  the  city  (Lev  24  14;  cf  Lk  4  29); 
the  witnesses  threw  the  first  stone  at  him  (cf  Dt 
17  7)  after  taking  off  their  upper  garments  and 
laying  them  at  the  feet  of  a  "young  man  named 
Saul"  (Acts  7  5S) — afterward  Paul,  now  about  30 
years  old — who  evidently  had  charge  of  the  whole 
proceedings. 

Stephen  died  as  he  had  lived,  a  faithful  witness 
to  his  Master  whom  he  acknowledged  as  such  amid 
the  rain  of  stones  hurled  at  him,  loudly  calling  upon 
His  name,  "Lord  Jesus,  receive  my  spirit"  (Acts 
7  f>9;  cf  Lk  23  46),  and  whose  spirit  he  exemplified 
so  nobly  when,  with  a  final  effort,  bending  his  knees, 
he  "cried  with  a  loud  voice,  Lord,  lay  not  this  sin 
to  their  charge"  (Acts  7  GO;  cf  Lk  23  34).  "And 
when  he  had  said  this,  he  fell  asleep"  (7  60;  cf 
1  Cor  15). 

The  impression  made  by  Stephen's  death  was 
even  greater  than  that  made  by  his  life.  Though 
it  marks  the  beginning  of  the  first  great  persecu- 
tion of  Christians,  the  death  of  the  first  Christian 
martyr  resulted  in  the  greatest  acquisition  Chris- 
tianity has  probably  ever  made,  the  conversion 
of  Saul  of  Tarsus.  The  vision  of  the  risen  and 
exalted  Jesus  vouchsafed  to  the  dying  Stephen  pre- 
sented Christianity  to  Saul  of  Tarsus  in  a  new  light, 
tending  to  remove  what  had  been  its  greatest 
stumbling-block  to  him  in  the  Crucified  One.  This 
revelation  coupled  with  the  splendid  personality 
of  Stephen,  the  testimony  of  his  righteous  life  and 
the  noble  bravery  of  his  sublime  death,  and  above 
all  his  dying  prayer,  fell  upon  the  honest  soul  of 
Saul  with  an  irresistible  force  and  inevitably 
brought  on  the  Damascus  event,  as  Augustine 
clearly  recognized:  "Si  Stephanas  non  orasset, 
ccclesia  Paulum  non  habuisset."  Judged  by  his 
teaching,  Stephen  may  be  called  the  forerunner  of 
Paul.  He  was  one  of  the  first  to  conceive  of  the  fact 
that  Christianity  represented  a  new  order  of  things 
and  as  such  would  inevitably  supersede  the  old  order. 
Thus  his  teachings  forecast  that  greatest  contro- 
versy of  the  first  Christian  century,  the  controversy 
between  Judaism  and  Christianity,  which  reached 
its  culmination-point  in  the  Council  of  Jems,  re- 
sulting in  the  independence  of  the  Christian  church 
from  the  fetters  of  Judaistio  legalism. 

LITERATURE. — R.  .1.  Kmnvling,  "Acts"  in  Expositor's 
Gr  Trst.,  II  (1!>00);  Feine,  I>RE*,  XIX  (1907);  Palmcko 
in  Studien  u.  Krit.  (1912),  I. 

S.  D.  PHESS 


STEWARD,    stu'erd    (n?3  b?  UTS ,    'ish    <al 

bayith  [Gen  43  10.10;    44  1;    1  K  16  9],  "ir?72n , 

ha-nidqar  [Dnl  1   11],  "j-Sn ,  hn-sokhcn 

1.  OT  [Isa22  ir>]):  In  A  V  the  word  "steward" 
Usage             is  found  in  Gen  15  2;     1   (1h  28   I,  in 

addition  to  the  above.      AH.V  renders 
Gen  15  2  as  "possessor,"   and  1   Ch  28   1  "rulers." 

Tho  phrase  brn-mrshrk  in  Hen  15  2  is  best  rendered 
"son  of  acquisition,"  hence,  "heir."  But,  this  is  disputed. 
Skinner  in  tho  ICC  on  (.Jen  regards  the  text  as  hopelessly 
corrupt,  and  oilers  no  solution  of  the  difficulty.  In  tho 
other  passages,  tho  phrase  'ixh  ' al  lui'/ith  is  conveniently 
tr'i  "steward,"  though  lit.  it  is  "man  over  tho  house." 
Tho  word  ha-mdcar  in  Dnl  1  1 1  is  trd  in  AV  as  a  proper 
noun.  This  is  certainly  a  mistake.  The  margin  gives 
"tho  steward,"  arid  this  is  followed  in  JiV.  A  better 
rendering  perhaps  would  bo  "overseer,"  as  this  man 
seemed  to  have  tho  superintendence  of  tho  training  and 
feeding  of  the  young  men  until  they  wero  fitted  to 
enter  tho  king's  service.  IIo  was  thus  rather  a  steward 
of  persons  than  of  property  (see  ME LZAR).  Inlsa  22  15 
Shebna  is  described  in  the  text  as  "  treasurer,"  but  in  the 
margin  as  "steward,"  and  seems  to  combine  the  ideas  in 
both  the  words  "  treasurer  "  and  "steward."  .Sholma  was 
thus  one  of  tho  highest  officials,  having  charge  of  the  city's 
funds,  and  of  administering  thorn  for  tho  city's  benefit. 

Though  the  word  for  "steward"  occurs  but  once  in 
that  sense,  the  idea  is  one  familiar  to  the  OT. 
Eliczer  of  Damascus  was  Abraham's  slave  and 
trusted  steward.  lie  seems  to  have  had  the  oversight 
of  all  his  affairs  and  was  intrusted  with  the  important 
duty  of  getting  a  wife  for  Isaac.  I  To  apparently  had 
charge  over  the  family  of  his  master  as  well  as  his 
property.  Whether  Isaac  had  such  a  steward  or 
not  is  nowhere  stated,  but  it  is  practically  certain 
that  he  had.  Jacob  seems  to  have  been  Laban's 
steward  for  a  time,  as  he  apparently  had  full  charge 
of  the  flocks  and  herds  of  his  master.  Joseph  was 
practically  Potiphar's  steward,  and  when  he  became 
Pharaoh's  chief  minister,  he  himself  had  a  steward 
over  his  own  house  (Gen  39  4.5;  44  1.4).  The 
king  Elah  in  his  brief  reign  of  two  years  had  a 
steward  in  charge  of  his  household  (I  K  16  9). 
The  same  was  doubtless  true  of  all  the  kings,  and  it 
may  be  safely  inferred  that  every  household  of 
distinction  or  of  sufficient  wealth  had  a  steward 
in  charge.  The  functions  of  this  officer  seem  at 
times  to  have  included  the  care  of  the  children  or 
minors,  as  well  as  of  the  properly.  Sometimes  he 
was  a  slave,  sometimes  a  freedman. 

<?7r£rpo7ros,  cpitropos,  oiKov6/j.os,  oikondmos.  These 
two  terms  denote  similar  posit  ions.  The  exact  differ- 
ence cannot  be  clearly  defined,  as 

2.  In  the        they  are    sometimes    almost    synony- 
NT  mous.     The   two    are   found    together 

in  Gal  4  2.  Some  scholars  say  they 
are  used  synonymously,  others  that  the  first 
word  is  a  more  general  term  including  the  latter. 
Lightfoot  and  Ellicott  think  that  the  former  refers 
rather  to  the  guardianship  of  persons,  the  child's  legal 
representative,  while  the  latter  word  refers  to  the 
head  servant  appointed  to  manage  the  household  or 
property  (cf  2  Mace  11  1;  13  2).  There  would, 
however,  not  be  any  such  hard-and-fast  line 
between  their  respective  duties;  these  might  vary 
with  every  master,  or  might  be  combined  in  one 
individual. 

(1)  In  the  Gospels. — The  idea  seems  to  have  been 
perfectly  familiar  to  the  people  in  Christ's  day. 
Every  household  of  distinction  seems  to  have  had  a 
steward  in  charge,  Herod's  steward  was  named 
Chuzas,  and  his  wife,  Joanna,  followed  and  minis- 
tered to  Jesus  (Lk  8  3).  The  word  cpitropos  used 
here  is  held  by  some  scholars  to  imply  that  he  had 
charge  of  the  education  of  Herod's  children.  This 
is  very  probable  but  not  certain.  In  the  parable 
of  the  Laborers  in  the  Vineyard,  it  is  the  steward 
who  pays  the  laborers  at  the  close  of  the  day  (Mt 
20  8).  The  parable  of  the  Unjust  Steward  best 
illustrates  the  practice.  This  steward  waa  a 


Stewpan 
Stomach 


TIIU  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2854 


freeman,  had  full  charge  of  his  master's  affairs 
and  could  use  them  to  his  own  advantage  if  he  chose, 
was  fully  accountable  to  his  master  and  had  to 
render  an  account  when  called  upon.  If  unfaithful 
he  was  usually  discharged  at  once  (Lk  16  1-13). 
The  parables  of  the  Minae  or  Pounds  (Lk  19  12-27), 
the  Talents  (Alt  25  14-30),  and  the  Wicked 
Husbandmen  (Alt  21  33-40)  teach  similar  truths. 
In  His  warning  to  His  disciples  Jesus  seems  to 
imply  that  they  were  to  act  as  stewards  in  His 
absence  (Lk  12  42).  According  to  this  passage 
a  steward's  task  was  to  manage  all  the  affairs  of 
his  master,  attend  to  receipts  and  expenditures, 
and  portion  out  to  each  one  of  the  household  what 
should  come  to  him.  The  disciples  were  left  thus  in 
charge  of  His  gospel  and  were  to  use  this  gift  to 
the  best  advantage  in  behalf  of  others  until  His 
return.  In  .In  2  S  the  term  "ruler"  is  given  in  the 
margin  as  "steward."  The  one  referred  to  here 
was  really  director  of  the  feast  rather  than  steward, 
though  in  a  sense  charged  with  the  responsibility 
of  conducting  it-.  Many  stewards  were  no  doubt 
slaves,  as  is  implied  in  Mt  24  45,  while  others 
were  freedmen  (Lk  16  1-21). 

(2)  In  the  E/>i*ll<'s.  —  The  application  of  this 
term  is  largely  confined  to  the  ministry  of  the  gospel. 
Paul  and  his  fellow-laborers  regarded  themselves 
as  stewards  of  the  mysteries  of  (lod  (I  Cor  4  1.2). 
The  idea  is  that  he  take  scrupulous  care  of  that 
which  was  intrusted  to  him,  and  give  it  out  to 
others  faithfully  and  as  directed  by  his  master 
Jesus  Christ.  A  bishop  or  overseer  is  to  be  as 
C-od's  steward  (Tit  1  7).  Peter  considered  him- 
self and  all  other  Christians  as  "stewards  of  the 
manifold  grace  of  (iod"  (1  Pet,  4  10).  The  preva- 
lence; of  the  custom  of  having  guardians  and  stewards 
over  children  in  their  minority  is  shown  in  Gal  4  2. 
The  difference  in  meaning  of  the  two  words  used 
here  is  stated  above.  In  Rom  16  23  Erastus  is 
called  the  oikoHomos  of  the  city.  This  is  best  tr'1 
"treasurer."  Krastus  was  thus  an  influential  mem- 
ber of  the  community  of  Corinth  and  evidently  a 
faithful  Christian.  JAMES  JUKI  AH  REEVE 

STEWPAN,  stu'pan  (Lev  11  35  m).    See  PAN. 


STIFF-NECKED,  stif'nekt  (CIT?  TW$  ,  kfxheh 
*or<  pit,  lit.  "hard  of  neck"):  As  it  is  figuratively 
used,  both  in  the  OT  and  inthe  NT,  the  word  means 
"stubborn,"  "unt  ractable,"  "not  to  be  led."  The 
derivation  of  the  idea  was  entirely  familiar  to  the 
Jews,  with  whom  the  ox  was  the  most  useful  and 
common  of  domestic  animals.  It  was  esp.  used  for 
such  agricultural  purposes  as  harrowing  and  plowing 
(Jgs  14  IS;  1  Cor  9  9). 

The  plow  was  usually  drawn  by  two  oxen.  As 
the  plowman  required  but  one  hand  to  guide  tin- 
plow,  he  carried  in  the  other  an  "ox-goad."  This 
was  a  light  pole,  shod  with  an  iron  spike.  With  t  his 
he  would  prick  the  oxen  upon  the  hind  legs  to  in- 
crease their  speed,  and  upon  the  neck  to  turn,  or  to 
keep  a  straight  course  when  deviating.  If  an  ox 
was  hard  to  control  or  stubborn,  it  was  "hard  of 
neck,"  or  stiff-necked.  Hence  the  figure  was  used 
in  the  Scriptures  to  express  the  stubborn,  untract- 
able  spirit  of  a  people  not  responsive  to  the  guiding 
ff  their  God  (Ex  32  0;  33  3;  Dt  9  0;  2  Ch  36  13; 
rtl(r  17  23,  etc).  See  also  the  NT  where  incXTj/wrpdx'?- 
re,\i(rfiklerotrdchelos,  is  so  trd  (Acts  7  51),  "Ye  stiff- 
doubt  iiand  uncircumcised  in  heart  and  ears,  ye  do 
against  h\sist  the  Holy  Spirit."  Cf  Bar  2  30.33. 
Stephen,  bu  ARTHTR  WALWYN  EVANS 

fore  the'diff(u:  "To  be  still"  is  "to  keep  silence" 
What  it  is  St  lin(l  so  "to  be  quiet"  (Ps  107  29,  etc) 
the  second  pa  in  any  waY  (Jfis  18  9;  1  K  22  3; 

(2)  Defence  •  So  "be  still"  in  Ps  46  10  means 
differences  beta  )Ur  war"  (cf  RVm  "Ict  be").  The 


"still  small  voice"  of  1  K  19  12  (RVm  "sound  of 
gentle  stillness")  is  due  to  taking  the  Heb  dcmamah 
in  its  literal  force  of  "silent,"  but  the  word  here 
means  "whisper" — "a  whispering,  little  voice." 
This  familiar  passage,  however,  has  made  "still 
voice"  good  Krig.,  and  the  combination  is  used  in  Job 

4  10  by  RVm.     InPs23  2  thetr  "still  waters"  takes 
"waters    of    rest"    (so    lit.    for   nrHDia ,    m<~nuhah; 
cf   RVm)    to   mean   "waters   with   little   motion." 
But  the  meaning  is  either  "wells  by  which  the  flocks 
rest"  or  "wells  that  give  refreshing  water."     As  an 
advb.  "still"  is  perhaps  more  emphatic  than  in  mod- 
ern Eng. ;    cf   "power  to  keep  still  the  kingdom," 
2  Ch  22  9  AV(RV  "to  hold  the  kingdom"). 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

STING,  sting  OB1£ ,  punish,  "to  cut  into"; 
K^vrpov,  kcnlrnn,  "a  goad,"  "spur"):  A  sharp, 
pointed  organ  or  instrument  for  inflict  ing  wounds  by 
puncture;  sting  of  an  adder,  Prov  23  32;  of  scor- 
pions, Rev  9  10.  In  the  free  quotation  of  1  Cor 
15  55  from  Hos  13  14,  death  is  personified  as  a 
deadly  animal,  like  a  scorpion  or  serpent,  which 
inflicts  destruction  by  means  of  sin  as  its  kentron. 
It  should  also  be  remembered  that  in  Acts  26  14 
the  same  Gr  word  is  used  with  reference  to  an  instru- 
ment for  exciting  fear,  rather  than  death.  Both 
figures  are  pertinent;  for  death  is  powerless,  except 
through  sin,  and,  also,  when  sin  is  vanquished,  the 
fear  of  death  (He  2  15)  is  gone.  H.  E.  JACOBS 

STIR,  stur,  STIR  UP:  Used  transitively  and 
intransitively  to  indicate  inner,  concentrated  move- 
ment; translates  a  number  of  Heb  and  Gr  vbs., 
each  of  which  has  its  different  shade  of  meaning. 
Thus  e.g.  in  Ps  39  2,  we  have  \ikhar,  "to  be  troubled," 
"excited";  in  Cant  2  7,  Vr,  "to  awake,"  "disturb" 
(by  the  festal  dances  and  songs).  In  2  Tim  1  0,  it 
stands  for  Gr  anazopureo,  used  of  the  resuscitation 
of  a  flame;  in  2  Pet  1  13;  3  1,  Gr  diegclro,  "to 
awaken  from  sleep  or  stupor";  in  Acts  21  27,  Gr 
sugchco,  "to  commingle,"  vividly  portraying  the  con- 
fusion and  tumult  that  resulted;  in  Acts  13  50,  Gr 
parolrund,  "to  urge  on";  Acts  17  13,  Gr  salcilo,  "to 
shake  to  and  fro." 

STOCK,  stok:  In  EV  is  used  for: 

(1)  The  stem  of  a  tree,  whether  alive  (Job  14  8; 
Isa  40  24)  or  cut  down  (Isa  44  19;    Wiscl  14  21). 
In  Jer  2  27;    39;    Hos  4  12,  where  the  Heb  has 
simply  Ipy  ,  Vf,  "wood,"  cither  meaning  is  possible 
(tree-worship?   idolatry?).     In    Jer  10  8    the    text 
is  doubtful. 

(2)  A    family    (Lev  25  47;     1  Esd  5  37;     Tob 

5  13;      1  Alacc  12  21;      2  Alacc  1  10;      Acts  13 
20;    Phil  3  5). 

(3)  Elsewhere  (Job  13  27,  etc)   the  word  refers 
to    an    instrument    of    punishment.     See    PTMSH- 
MENTS. 

STOICS,  sto'iks  (SrwiKoi,  Htoikoi) : 

1.  Origin  and  Propagation 

2.  Metaphysics  and  Religion 
.'5.   Sensationalist  Episteraology 

4.  Ethical  Teaching 

5.  Relation  to  Christianity 
LITERATURE 

The  name  was  derived  from  the  Stod  Poikilc, 
the  painted  porch  at  Athens,  where  the  founders  of 

the  school  first  lectured.  This  school 
1.  Origin  of  Gr  philosophy  was  founded  at 
and  Propa-  Athens  c  294  BC  by  Zeno  (c  330-204 
gation  BC),  a  native  of  Citium,  a  Gr  colony 

in  Cyprus.  But  the  Sem  race  pre- 
dominated in  Cyprus,  and  it  has  been  conjectured 
that  Zeno  was  of  Sem  rather  than  Hellenic  origin. 
His  Gr  critics  taunted  him  with  being  a  Phoenician. 
It  has  therefore  been  suggested  that  the  distinctive 
moral  tone  of  the  system  was  Sem  and  not  Hellenic. 


2855 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Stewpan 
Stomach 


Further  color  is  given  1o  this  view  by  the  fact  that 
/eno's  immediate  successors  at  the  head  of  the 
school  also  hailed  from  Asia  Minor,  Cleanthes 
(331-232  BC)  being  a  native  of  Assos,  and  Chrysip- 
pus  (2SO-2()(>  BC)  of  Soli  in  Cilicia.  Several  other 
adherents  of  the  system  hailed  from  Asia  Minor, 
and  it  flourished  in  several  Asiatic  cities,  such  as 
Tarsus  and  Sidon.  In  the  2d  cent.  BC  the  doctrine 
was  brought  to  Rome  by  Panaetius  of  Rhodes  (c 
1S<)-1()<)  BC),  and  in  the  course  of  the  two  succeed- 
ing centuries  it  spread  widely  among  the  upper 
classes  of  Rom  society.  It  reckoned  among  its 
adherents  a  Scipio  and  a  Cato,  Seneca  and  Marcus 
Aurelius,  as  well  as  the  freed  man  Epictetus.  The 
most  adequate  account  of  the  teaching  of  the  Or 
Stoics  has  been  preserved  in  the  writings  of  Cicero, 
who,  however,  was  a  sympathetic  critic,  rather  than 
an  adherent  of  the  school.  The  system  acquired 
its  most  lasting  influence;  by  its  adoption  as  the 
formative  factor  in  the  jurisprudence  of  imperial 
Rome,  and  Rom  law  in  its  turn  contributed  to  the 
formation  of  Christian  doctrine  and  ethics. 

The  main  principles  of  Stoicism  were  promul- 
gated by  Zeno  and  Cleanthes,  and  Chrysippus 
formulated  them  into  a  systematic 
2.  Meta-  doctrine  which  became  a  standard  of 
physics  and  orthodoxy  for  the  school,  and  which 
Religion  permitted  but  little  freedom  of  specu- 
lation for  its  subsequent  teachers. 
Whatever  may  have  been  the  Sem  affinities  of  mind 
of  Zeno  and  his  followers,  they  derived  the  formal 
principles  of  their  system  from  Gr  antecedents. 
The  ethical  precept,  "Follow  Nature,"  they  learnt 
from  the  Socratic  school  of  Antisthenes,  the  Cynics. 
But  they  followed  the  earlier  philosopher  Heraclitus 
in  defining  the  law  of  Nature  as  reason  (logos), 
which  was  at  once  the  principle  of  intelligence  in 
man,  and  the  Divine  reason  immanent  in  the  world. 
This  doctrine  they  again  combined  with  the  preva- 
lent Gr  hylozoism,  and  therefore  their  metaphysics 
inclined  to  be  a  materialistic  pantheism.  On  the 
one  side,  Nature  is  the  organization  of  material 
atoms  by  the  opera t  ion  of  its  own  uniform  and  neces- 
sary laws.  On  the  other  side,  it  is  a  living,  rational 
being,  subduing  all  its  parts  to  work  out  a  rational 
purpose  inherent  in  the  whole.  As  such  it  may  be 
called  Providence  or  God. 

While  tho  Stoics  rejected  the  forms  and  rites  of  popular 
religion,  they  defended  belief  in  God  and  inculcated 
piety  and  reverence  toward  Him.  Their  pantheism 
provided  a  basis  for  Or  polytheism  also  alongside;  of  their 
monism,  for  where  all  the  world  is  Clod,  each  part  of  it  is 
Divine,  and  may  be  worshipped.  Another  consequence 
of  their  pantheism  was  their  attitude  to  evil,  which  they 
held  to  be  only  apparently  or  relatively  evil,  but  really 
good  in  the  harmony  of  the  whole.  Therefore  they  bore 
evil  with  courage  and  cheerfulness,  because  they  believed 
that  "all  things  worked  together  for  good"  absolutely. 

The  materialistic  trend  of  their  metaphysics  also  comes 
out   in    their    epistemology,    which    was    sensationalist. 
The  human  mind  at  its  birth  was  a  tabula 
n    qprlca_       rasa.     Its   first   ideas   were   derived   from 
.'   0(SV  sensations,   the  impressions  made  by  the 

tionalist  external  world  upon  the  soul,  which  they 

Episte-  also  conceived  as  a  material  body,  though 

made  of  finer  atoms  than  the  external 
body.  Out  of  these  sense-impressions  the 
mind  built  up  its  intuitions  or  preconcep- 
tions, and  its  notions,  which  constituted  its  store  of  ideas. 
It  is  not  clear  how  far  they  attributed  originative;  power 
to  the  mind  as  contributing  some;  factor  to  the.  organiza- 
tion of  knowledge,  which  was  not  derived  from  experience. 
The  Stoic  system  is  never  consistently  materialistic,  nor 
consistently  idealistic.  Most  of  its  terms  are  used  in  a 
dual  sense,,  material  and  spiritual. 

But  its  ethical  teaching  shows  that  tin;  main 
trend  of  the  system  was  spiritualistic.  For  its 

crown  and  climax  was  the  ethics.  The 
4.  Ethical  Stoics  did  not  pursue  knowledge  for 
Teaching  its  own  sake.  They  speculated  about 

ultimate  problems  only  for  the  prac- 
tical purpose  of  discovering  a  rule  of  lii'o  and  con- 
duct. And  in  their  ethics,  the  great  commandment, 


"Follow  Nature,"  is  interpreted  in  a  distinctly 
idealistic  sense.  It  means,  "Follow  reason,"  as 
reason  inheres  both  in  man  and  in  the  universe  as 
a  whole.  It  is  submission  to  Providence  or  the 
rational  order  of  the  universe,  and  the  fulfilment  of 
man's  own  rational  nature.  The  life  according  to 
Nature  is  man's  supreme  good.  How  actual 
Nature  could  be  the  ideal  good  that  man  ought  to 
seek,  or  how  man  was  free  to  pursue  an  ideal,  while 
he  was  bound  in  a  system  of  necessity,  were;  funda- 
mental paradoxes  of  the  system  which  the  Stoics 
never  solved.  They  summed  up  their  moral  teach- 
ing in  the  ideal  of  the  sage;  e>r  the1  wise;  man.  His 
chief  characteristic  is  ataraxy,  a  calm  passionless 
mastery  e>f  all  emotiems,  and  independence  of  all 
circumstances.  He;  therefore  lives  a  consistent, 
harmonious  life,  in  eemformit  y  wit  h  1  he  perfect,  order 
of  the  universe'.  He;  eliscovers  this  emler  by  knowl- 
edge or  wisdom.  But  the  Stoics  a!se>  elefine-d  this 
ideal  as  a  system  eif  particular  duties,  such  as 
purity  in  one's  self,  Ie>vc  toward  all  men,  ami  rever- 
ence* toward  God.  In  Stem;  ethics,  Gr  philosophy 
reach  eel  the  climax  e>f  its  moral  teaching.  Nenvhere 
else  outside;  Christianity  ele>  we  find  so  exalted  a 
rule  of  e;e>nelue-t  feir  the  individual,  se>  humane,  hope- 
ful ami  comprehensive  an  ideal  fe>r  society. 

Whe>n  "certain  .  .  .  .  e>f  the  Epicumm  ami 
Stoic  philosophers  encountered"  Paul  at  Athens,  and 
when,  after  the  apetstle  hael  spe>ken 
5.  Relation  on  Mars'  Hill,  "some  me>ckeel;  but 
to  Chris-  others  said,  We  will  hear  the»e;  concern- 
tianity  ing  this  yet  again"  (Ae-ts  17  IS. 32),  it  is 

no  improbable  inference;  that  the  Epi- 
cureans mockeel,  while  the  Ste>ies  desiml  to  hear 
more.  For  they  would  find  much  in  the  apostle's 
teaching  that  harmonized  with  the-ir  own  views. 
Paul's  quotation  from  the  classics  in  his  Athe- 
nian speech  was  from  the;  Stoie;  poet,  Aratus  of 
Soli  in  Cilie-ia:  "For  we  are?  alse)  his  offspring." 
His  den-trine;  of  creation,  e>f  Divine  immanence,  of 
the  spirituality  ami  fatherhood  of  God,  woulel  be 
familiar  and  acceptable  te>  them.  His  preaching 
of  Christ  woulel  not,  have  been  unwelcome  to  them, 
who  were  seeking  fe>r  the  iele;al  wise  man.  Paul's 
moral  teaching  as  it  appears  in  his  Epp.  reveals  some 
resemblance  to  Stoic  ethics.  It  is  peissible;  that  Paul 
had  learnt  much  from  the  Ste>ic  school  at  Tarsus. 
It  is  certain  that  subsequent  Christian  thought 
enveel  much  to  Stoicism.  Its  eloctrine  of  the  imma- 
nent Logos  was  cemibined  with  Philo's  cemecptiem 
of  the  transcendent  Logos,  te>  form  the  Le)ge>s  den-- 
trine  through  which  the  Gr  Fathers  construed  the 
person  of  Christ.  And  Stoic  ethics  was  taken 
enrer  almost,  bexlily  by  the  Christian  church. 
See  EPICUREANS;  I)ini,<)se)i>iiY. 

LITKHATURE. — The  chie'f  extant  sources  are  the 
writings  of  (Mee-m,  J)r  FinUm*,  I)c  Xatura  I)«irum,  e'te; 
Seneca,  Plutarch,  M.  Antoninus  Aurelius,  Epictetus, 
Diogenes  Laertius,  Sextus  Krnpirie-us  and  Stobaous. 
Modern  works:  H.  von  Arnim,  Xtuicorum  rcti'mm  fruu- 
mcnta;  Zeller,  Stoicx,  Ei>icur<-n>in  ami  Sceptics;  K.  I). 
Hicks,  Stoic  and  Epirur t-nn;  W.  L.  Davielson,  The  Stoic 
Creed;  K.  V.  Arnold,  Ho  num.  Stoicixm,  which  contains 
a  full  bibliography  and  de-als  with  the  relation  e>f 
Stoie-ism  to  Christianity;  em  the  lalte-r  point  see  also 
l.ightfoot,  Phil.  Excursus  II.  "St.  Paul  and  Se'neca"; 
histories  of  phile>sophy  by  Rogers,  "\Vindelband,  Ueber- 
weg,  and  E.  Oaird. 

T.  REES 

STOMACH,  stum'uk  (erronaxos,  ,s/e>/m;e"/;r«) : 
In  man  and  most  vertebrates,  a  membranous 
sac-like  portion  of  the  aliment  ary  canal,  in  whie-h  the 
earlier  stages  e>f  digest  iem  take  place  and  in  which 
foe>el  is  prepared  to  yield  its  nourishment  (1  Tim 
5  23). 

Uscel  figuratively  e>f  pri/lc.  "A  proud  loe>k  and 
high  stemiach"  (Ps  101  7,  Prayer-be >ok  Version), 
and  courage,  "Stirring  up  her  womanish  thoughts 
with  a  manly  stomach"  (2  Mace  7  21  AV,  RV 
"with  manly  passion"). 


Stomacher 
Stones,  Precious 


INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2Sr>t> 


STOMACHER,  stum'uk-er:    Used    to   translate 

b^PS,  p'thlghll  (Isa3  24  AV),  where  the  mean- 
ing is  uncertain.  The  Eng.  word  de-notes  that  part 
of  a  woman's  dress  which  covered  the  breast  and 
Hie  pit  of  the  stomach.  It  was  usually  much  orna- 
mented. 

STONE,  stdn,  STONES,  stonz: 

(1)  Chiefly  "3X,    'Mu'ii,    and    X£6os,    lithos;   l>ut 
also,  occurring   rarely,  ~'~S  ,   Y.sA< /;//    (Lev  21  20); 

"TS,  r/7/-  (Job '22  24),  usually  "rock"; 
I.Hebrew  "VH?  ,  f'wr  (2  S  17  i:i);  irfrpos, 
and  Greek  /;r7;-ox  (.In  1  -12  >;  ^rj<f>os,  pst'phos  (Rev 
Words  217).  For  ^0 ,  scto',  usually  "cliff," 

"crag,"  "rock,"  AV,  in  1's  137  9; 
141  0,  has  "stone,"  but  RV  "rock."  For 
AV  "stones,"  izhn ,  Ju-rcs  (Job  41  30),  RV  has 
"potsherds."  See  SKLA. 

The   word   is   used   of  great  stones    (Gen  29  2); 
of  small  stones  (1  S  17  -10);    of  stones  set  up  as 

memorials     (1   S  7  12,     "Eben-ezer," 

2.  Literal       "stone  of  help");    of  precious  stones 
Usage  (Ex  35  9,    etc);     of   hailstones    (Josh 

10   11). 

Of  hardness:    "I   will  take  the  stony  heart,  out 

of    their    flesh"     (Ezk  11   19);     of    one    smitten: 

"[Xabal's]  heart  died  within  him,  and 

3.  Figura-     became;  as  a  stone"   (1  S  25  37);    of 
tive  Usage     weight:    "A  stone  is  heavy,  and  the 

sand  weighty"  (I'rov  27  3);  of  dumb- 
ness: "Woe  unto  him  that  saith  to  the  wood,  Awake; 
to  the  dumb  stone,  Arise!"  (Hal)  2  19);  of  Jems: 
"I  will  mala;  Jems  a  burdensome  stone  for  all  the 
peoples"  (Zee  12  3);  of  the  corner-stone  as  a 
figure  of  high  position: 

"The  stone  which  tho  builders  rejected 
Is  bcconio  tlio  head  of  tho  corner"  (Ps  118  212). 

See  FLINT;  ROCK. 

(2)  Used  also  anatomically  of  Hie  testicles  (Lev 
21  20;     Dt  23  1;     Job  40  17,    "HE,    pnhadh,  RV 
"thighs").  ALFKKD  ELY  DAY 

STONE-SQUARERS,    stdn'skwar-erx:      AV     in 

1  K  5  IS;    RV   "the  Cebalites"   (q.v.). 


STONES,  PRECIOUS: 

1.   Ancie'iit  anel  Me>ele-rn  Names 

!.   Change  e>f  Signification  e>f  N"aines 

5.  Three  Important  Lists  of  Stones 

1.   [nterprotation  of  Gn-e-k  Name's  L^se-el  by  St.  Je>lm 

i.    inte'rpre-tatiem  e>f  He'bre'w  Names 

Greek  anel  Latin  Equivalents  e>f  Hebrew  Names 

Inconsistencies  of  Text  or  Translation 

Yulnate  and  LXX 

Hebrew  Texts  of  LXX  and  EV 

Equivalence  e>f  He-brew  and  Gre-e-k  Names 

Interpretation  of  Gre-ek  Names  l"se-el  by  LXX 

List  of  Names  with  liiblical  References 

Great  difficulty  is  met  with  in  any  attempt  te> 
translate  the  Gr  anel  lleb  names  mentioned  in  the; 

Bible;  into  names  that  would  be;  used 
1.  Ancient  for  the;  same  minerals  in  a  particular 
and  country  at  the  present  day.  It  is 

Modern  only  within  the  last  century,  through 
Names  the  development  eif  the  sciences  of 

chemistry  and  crystallography,  that 
it  has  become  possible  to  define  mineral  species 
with  any  considerable  approach  to  precision.  In 
ancient  times  various  minerals  were  regardeel  as 
belonging  to  a  single;  kind,  and  indicated  by  a  single 
name,  that  are  now  distributed  inte>  different  kinels 
anel  mentioned  unde-r  eliffcrent.  names. 

For  example',  2,000  years  ago  the  Gr  term  i'intlira.c  was 
useel  to  signify  various  harel,  transparent,  re-el  stones 
that  are;  now  known  te>  elifl'er  much  fre>m  one  another 
in  cheiinical  composition,  anel  are  there-fore  assigne-d  te> 
elifTeivnt  species  and  given  different  name's;  among  them 
are  e>riental  ruby  (red  corundum),  balas  ruby  (red  spinel), 


almanclino  and  pyrppe,  (red  garnets);  a  stone  designated 
antlirax.  by  the  ancient  Greeks  might  thus  belong  to  any 
one  of  a  number  of  various  kinds  to  the  assemblage  of 
which  no  name1  is  now  given,  and  the  word  anthrax  has  no 
simple,  equivalent  in  a  modern  language. 

Confusion   is   introduced  in  another  way.     The 
Eng.  names  of  most  of  the  precious  stones  men- 
tioned in  the  Bible  are;  adaptations  of 

2.  Change     Gr  names  through  the  Lat ;    for   in- 
of  Signifi-       stance,   the   Eng.   word  "topaz"    is    a 
cation  of        modification  of  the  Lat  word  topaziits, 
Names  itself    merely  a  Lat  form  of    the  Cr 

word  topazitni.  It  would  at  first,  sight 
appear  that  the  Gr  word  topazion  must,  be  tr'1  into 
Eng.  by  the  word  "topaz";  but,  strangely,  although 
the  words  are  virtually  identical,  the  stones  indi- 
cated by  the  words  are  quite  different.  The  to- 
pazion of  the  ancient  Greeks  was  a  green  stone 
yielding  to  the  action  of  a  file  and  said  to  be  brought, 
from  an  .island  in  the  Red  Sea,  whereas  the  topaz 
of  the  present  day  is  not  a  green  stone;,  does  not 
yield  ted  he  act  ion  of  a  file-,  and  has  not  been  brought 
from  an  island  in  the  Reel  Sea.  The  topazion  of 
the  ancient  Creeks  is  really  the  peridot,  not,  the; 
topaz,  of  modern  mineralogy;  toptizion  and  topaz 
are  eliffVrent  kinds  of  stone.  For  the  interpretation 
of  the  Bible  it  is  thus  necessary  to  ascertain,  if 
possible*,  the  kind  of  stone  to  which  a  Gr  or  lleb 
name  was  applied  at  the  time  when  the  word  was 
written. 

Most  of  the  names  of  the  precious  stones  men- 

tione-d  in  the  Bible  are  containeel  in  the  lleb  ele- 

scription    of    the    breastplate    of    the; 

3.  Three        high  priest  and  the;  Gr  description  of 
Important      the;  founelations  of  the  New  Jerusalem. 
Lists  of  The  ornaments  assigned  to  the  king  of 
Stones  Tyre  (Ezk  28  13)  included  only  stonca 

that  had  been  used  in  the;  breastplate; 
inele-ed,  in  the  LXX,  the>y  an;  the  same  twelve,  men- 
tioned in  pree-isely  the  same  order. 

The  stones  e>f  'the  breastplate  according  to  our 
Hcb  text  (Ex  28  17-21)  we're: 


1st  row . 
2d  row  . 
:M  row  . 
4th  row 


No.  2 


pit'dhah 

"PEC 

Kappir 


bart  kitk 

tibm 


The'  foundations  of  the  New  Jerusalem  are'  (Hev 
21  19.20): 

1      hixjris  2      s<ii>i>hriros  3      rhalkf-don 

4      smdnuiiloK  ,r>      snnlonux  (>      xiirtliiut. 

7      chrusolithos        S      bfrullux  0      topdzion 

10      cliriixoiiriixiix   11      hudkinthos        12-      amethustos 
Only  4  e>f  the  latte'r  stones  are  me-ntie>neel  elsewhere  in 
the'  NT,  also  in  the'  Hook  e>f  Rev,  namely:    tas/;i.s  (4  3; 
21    IS),   smaraydos    (4  3),    sardion    (4  3)    and  huakinthos 
(9   1"). 

Fe>r  the  interpretation  of  the  Gr  names  useel  by 
St.  John,  much  help  is  given  by  Pliny's  great  work 
on  Natural  History,  published  77  AD, 
4.  Interpre-  for  it  re-corels  what  was  known  abemt 
tation  of  precious  stones  at  the  very  time  when 
Greek  St.  John  himself  was  living.  The-  Gr 

Names  names  of  stone's  and  their  Lat,  verbal 

Used  by  equivalents  had  presumably  the  same 
St.  John  signification  for  both  these  writers;  it 
is  thus  possible,  in  some  cases  at  least, 
to  ascertain  what  name  is  now  assigneel  to  a  stenie 
mentioned  in  the  NT  if  the  name  and  description 


2857 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Stomacher 
Stones,  Precious 


arc  recorded  in  the  treatise  of  Pliny;  the  results  are 
given  in  the  alphabetical  list  below.  All  twelve 
stones,  except  chalkeddn,  are  mentioned  by  Pliny; 
the  few  important  stones  described  by  him,  but  not 
mentioned  by  St.  John  as  foundations,  arc  crystal- 
litni  and  adamas,  both  of  them  colorless;  onyx,  re- 
markable rather  for  structure  than  color;  dcctrum 
(amber),  a  soft  material;  carbunculus,  fiery  red; 
caUaina,  pale  green,  probably  turquoise;  cyanns, 
dark  blue;  imdopalus  (opal),  ranked  in  Pliny's  time 
immediately  after  stn<ir<i(/<lns  in  value.  Achates 
(agate)  is  omitted,  but  was  no  longer  precious. 

Jn  the  interpretation  of  the  lleb  names  of  the 

stones   of   the  breastplate   then;   is   much   greater 

diflicully,  for  no  Hcb  lit.  oilier  than 

5.  Interpre-  the  OT  has  been  preserved,  and  little 
tation  of         help   is   afforded   by   the   contexts   of 
Hebrew          other  verses  in  which  some  of  the  Hcb 
Names  names   of   precious   stones   occur.     If 

we  could  assume  that  the  LXX  and 
Vulg  VSS  of  the  description  of  the  breastplate  were 
made  from  II eb  texts  absolutely  identical  in  respect 
of  the  names  of  the  stones  with  those  used  for  the 
preparation  of  the  EV,  and  that  the  VSS  were 
correctly  made,  the  Or  equivalents  of  the  lleb  terms 
for  the  time  of  the  LXX  translators  (about  2SO  BC) 
and  their  Lat  equivalents  for  the  time  of  St.  Jerome 
(about  400  AD)  would  be  directly  determinable  by 
collation  of  the  Heb  original  wit  h  the  Gr  and  Lat  tr3. 

It  must  be  remembered,  however,  that  a  Heb 
writer,  in  describing  the  arrangement  of  a  row  of 
stones,  began  with  that  on  his  right  and  mentioned 
them  in  the  order  right  to  left,  while  a  western 
writer  begins  with  the  stone  on  his  left  and  men- 
tions them  in  the  reverse  order.  Hence,  in  trans- 
lating a  Hcb  statement  of  arrangement  into  a  west- 
ern language,  one  may  either  translate  literally 
word  by  word,  thus  adopting  the  Heb  direction  of 
reading,  or,  more  completely,  may  adopt  t  he  western 
direction  for  the  order  in  the  row.  As  either  method 
may  have  been  adopted  by  the  LXX  translators, 
it  follows  that  'odhem  and  bdrckcth,  the  first  and  last 
stones  of  the  1st  row  according  to  our  Heb  text, 
may  respectively  be  equivalent  either  to  sardion 
and  smaragdos,  or,  conversely,  to  smaragdos  and 
sardion;  and  similarly  for  the  other  rows.  The 
number  of  the  middle  stone  of  any  row  is  the_same 
whichever  direction  of  reading  is  adopted.  'Odhcin 
being  red,  and  sardion  and  smaragdos  respectively 
red  and  green  (see  below),  'oil hem  must  be  equiv- 
alent to  the  former,  not  the  latter,  and  the  LXX 
translators  must  have  adopted  the  Heb  direction 
of  reading  the  rows. 

Other  sets  of  possible  equivalents  arc  derivable 

by  collation  of  the  Bib.  description  with  each  of  the 

two   descriptions   given  by  Jos   (Ant, 

6.  Greek       III,  vii,  ,5;  BJ,  V,  v,  7).    The  possible 
and  Latin       Gr  and  Lat  equivalents  of  Heb  names 
Equivalents  are  thus  as  follows: 


1st  row      Heb 

Vulg 
A  nt 
I1J 


No.  1 

'odhem 

sardion 

sardius 

sardonux 

sdrdion 


No.  2 
pit<'dlifih 
' 


2d  row        Hob  nophekh 

LXX  dnthrax 

Vulg  carbunculus 

Ant  dnthrax 

BJ  dnthrax 


.'id  row 


4 til  row 


Hob  leshem 

LXX  li'/iiriiiii 

Vulg  ligurius 

A  nt  ligurion 

11.1  aclidti'x 

Heb  tarxhlxh 

LXX  chrusulith 

Vulg  chn/xvlith 

Ant  chrusolith 
BJ 


chrusdlithos 


It  may  bo  remarked,  as  regards  the  1st  stone  of  tho 
1st  row,  that  in  tho  tirno  of  .Jos  tho  stono  xardonux  could 
be  signified  also  by  tho  more  general  term  xardion;  and, 
as  regards  the  1st  stone  of  the  2d  row,  that  anthrax  and 
carbo  being  respectively  Grand  Lat  for  "glowing  coal," 
anthrax  and  cnrbntirulux.  diminutive  of  carbo,  were  used 
as  synonyms  for  certain  red  stones. 

From  the  inconsistencies  of  the  above  table  of 
possible  equivalents  it  may  be  inferred  that  either 
(1)  essentially  different  tr3  were  given 
7.  Incon-  in  several  cases  for  the  same  Heb  word, 
sistencies  or  (2)  the  lleb  texts  used  in  the  prep- 
aration of  the  LXX  and  Vulg  VSS 
were,  in  respect  of  1  he  precious  st  ones,  different  from 
each  other  and  from  that  used  in  the  preparation 
of  EV,  or  (3)  the  breast  plate  differed  at  different 
epochs,  or  (4)  one  or  other,  or  both,  of  the  descrip- 
tions by  Jos  are  incorrect.  Conceivably  differences 
may  have  arisen  in  all  the  above-mentioned  ways. 

(1)  Inconsistency  of  LXX  translators. — That  the  LXX 
translators  were  uncertain  as  to  the  correct  tr  of  the  Heb 
names  used  for  the  precious  stones  into  the  Gr  names 
used  in  their  time,  and  that  they  tr'  the  lleb  name  of  a 
stone  in  more  than  one  way  may  be  shown  as  follows. 
In  the  Heb  text  corresponding  to  EV  the  word  shdham, 
designating  the  2d  stone  uf  the  4th  row  of  the  breast- 
plate, occurs  also  in  several  versos  where  there  is  no 
mention  of  other  stones,  and  •where  there  is  thus  no  risk 
of  accidental  interchange,  such  as  may  easily  occur  when 
technical  terms,  more  esp.  if  unintelligible  to  tho  tran- 
scriber, are  near  to  one  another  in  the  text.    Now,  for  our 
VSS  shdham  has  been  systematically  tr'i  "onyx,"  and  for 
the  Vulg  the  Heb  word  having  tho  same  position  in  t  he  text 
has  been  systematically  trd  by  a  Lat  synonym  of  onyx, 
namely,  lapis  oni/chinus  (except  in  Job  28  16,  where  lapis 
sardonychus  is  tho  rendering).    Hence  it  is  probable  that 
the  word  in  those  particular  versos  was  shdham  in  the  Heb 
original  of  the  Vulg,  and  therefore  also  of  the  Hob  original 
of  the  LXX.     Yet  in  the  LXX  the  Heb  word  is  tr<J  soom 
(1  (.'h  29  2,  indicating  that  the  translator,  not  knowing 
the  Gr  word  for  shdham,  gave  merely  its  Gr  translitera- 
tion), as  well  as  smaragdos   (Ex  28  9;    35  27;    39  6  or 
LXX  36  13),    prdsinos    (Gen  2  12),    sardion    (Ex  25  7; 
35  9  or  LXX  35  8),  6nux  (Job  28  1C). 

These  differences  suggest  that  there  were  different 
LXX  translators,  even  for  different  chapters  of  the  same 
book,  and  that  little  care  was  taken  by  them  to  be  con- 
sistent with  one  another  in  the  tr  of  technical  terms. 

(2)  Differences   of  Hebrew   texts. — That  the  Hob  texts 
used  for  the  LXX,  Vulg  and  E  V  were  not  identical  in  all 
the  verses  in  which  there  is  mention  of  precious  stones  is 
esp.  clear  from  an  analysis  of  the  respective  descriptions 
of  the  ornaments  of  the  king  of  Tyre  (E/k  28  13).      In  the 
LXX  12  stones  are  mentioned;  as  already  stated,  they 
have  precisely  the  same  names  and  are  mentioned  in 
precisely  the  same  order  as  the  stones  of  the  breastplate 
described  in  that  version,  the  only  difference  being  that 
gold  and  silver  are  inserted  in  the  middle  of  the  list. 
On  the  other  hand,  in  Vulg  and  EV  descriptions  of  the 
ornaments,  only  9  of  the  12  stones  of  the  breastplate 
are  mentioned;    they  are  not  in  the  same  order  as  the 
corresponding  stones  in  the  breastplate  as  described  in 
those  VSS,  silver  is  not  mentioned  at  all,  while  gold  is 
placed,  not  in  the  middle,  but  at  the  end  of  the  list. 
Further,  the  order  of  mention  of  the  stones  in  EV  differs 
from  that  of  mention  in  Vulg. 

(3)  Changes  in  the  breastplate. — That  the  breast- 
plate in  use  in  the  time  of  the  LXX  translators 
(about  2SO  BC)  may  have  been  different  from  the 
one  described  in  the  Book  of  Ex  is  manifest  if  we 
have   regard  to  the    history  of  the  Jewish  nation; 
for  Jerus  was  captured  by  Shishak,  king  of  Egypt, 
about  973  BC,  by  Nebuchadnezzar,  king  of  Baby- 
lon, about  586  BC,  and  by  Ptolemy  Soter,  king  of 
Egypt,   about  320  BC.     The  original  breastplate 
may  have  been  part  of  the  spoil  on  one  or  other  of 
these  occasions,  and  have  then  disappeared  forever. 

Again,  between  the  times  of  the  LXX  translators 
and  Jos,  Jerus  was  more  than  once  in  the  hands  of 
its  enemies;  in  198  BC  the  city  was  captured  by 
Antiochus  the  Great;  in  170  BC  it  was  stormed, 
and  its  temple  plundered,  by  Antiochus  Epiphanes; 
in  54  BC  the  temple  was  desecrated  by  Crassus. 
The  breastplate  familiar  to  Jos  (for  he  was  long  a 
priest  in  the  temple  of  Jerus)  may  thus  not  have 
been  identical  with  that  in  use  when  the  LXX 
version  was  made. 

And  if  the  signification  of  the  Heb  names  of  the 
stones  had  not  been  carefully  passed  down  from  one 


Stones,  Precious 


Till-:  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2858 


generation  to  another  while  the  breastplate  was 
no  longer  in  existence  (for  instance,  during  the  Bab 
captivity),  or  if  stones  like  those  of  the  original 
breastplate  were  not  available  when  a  new  breast- 
plate was  being  made,  there  would  inevitably  be 
differences  in  the  breastplate  at  different  times. 

The  probability  of  this  hypothesis  of  one  or  more 
replacements  of 'the  breastplate  is  still  further  in- 
creased if  we  have  regard  to  the  large  stones  that 
weresct  in  gold  buttons  and  fastened  to  the  shoulder- 
pieces  of  the  ephod,  the  vestment  to  which  the 
breastplate  itself  was  attached  (Ex  28  9:  39  6  or 
LXX  36  13).  According  to  the  LXX,  the  material 
\va,s  smaragdos  (and  therefore  green);  according  to 
Jos  it  was  xiirdonux  (and  therefore  red  with  a  layer 
of  white).  Though  the  LXX  translators  may  never 
have  had  opportunities  of  looking  closely  at  the 
stones,  they  might,  be  expected  to  know  the  color 
of  the  material;  Jos  must,  have  seen  them  often. 
But  the  complete  difference  of  colors  of  smaragdos 
and  xnrd<»tn.c  suggests  that  the  difference  of  the 
names  is  due,  not  to  a  LXX  mistranslation  of  the 
Hob  name  shoham,  but  to  an  actual  difference  of 
the  material;  it  may  have  been  smaragdos  (and 
green)  at  the  time  when  the  LXX  tr  was  made,  and 
yet  sardonux  (and  red  with  a  layer  of  white)  in  the 
time  of  Jos. 

(4)  I)('xcrii>ti<>it*  (lircn  bi/  Jos.—  1  hat  in  respect 
of  the  breastplate  it  is  unsafe  to  collate  the  1 
texts  of  the  various  YSS  with  that  of  Jos  may  be 
demonstrated  as  follows.  The  2d  stone  of  the  2d 
row  termed  xap/nr  in  our  Ileb  text,  is  termed  xnp- 
pheiros  in  the  LXX  and  sapphirus  in  the  Vulg. 
Wherever  else  xappir  occurs  in  our  Ileb  text,  xnp- 
phcirox  occurs  in  t  lie  corresponding  place  i"  the  LXX 
and  xnpphirux  in  the  Vulg;  it  may  thus  be  interred 
that,  in  respect,  of  the  word  xapplr  our  Ileb  text 
and  the  Ileb  texts  used  for  the  LXX  and  \  ulg  \  SS 
were  in  complete  accord  with  one  another.  Also, 
it,  irt  certain  that  the  Lat  word  sapphirus  was  i 
rived  from  the  (Jr  word  sappheiros,  and  that  either 
the  latter  had  its  origin  in  the  Ileb  word  §appir  or 
that  both  words  had  the  same  source.  There  is  no 
reason  to  think  that,  from  the  time  of  the  LA  A 
translators  to  that  of  St .  Jerome  the  word  sappheiros 
was  ever  used  to  signify  any  other  than  one  kind 
of  stone  or  that  the  kind  was  ever  called  ?"/*/"«• 
But  in  both  the  descriptions  given  by  Jos  the  middle 
stone,  of  the  2d  row  is  given  as  iaxpix,  not  as  sap- 
phcirox,  which  he  makes  the  last  stone  of  the  row. 
Hence,  for  the  middle  stone  of  the  2d  row,  the  Heb 
texts  were,  concordant  in  giving  the  name  xtippir, 
but,  they  fundamentally  differed  from  that  ot  Jos 
whose  two  descriptions  agree  in  giving  the  name 
iaspis;  it  is  not  a  difference  of  mere  nomenclature 
or  tr,  but  of  the  kind  of  stone  set  in  a  definite  part 
of  the  breastplate.  This  being  the  ease,  collation 
of  the  Heb,  LXX  and  Vulg  descriptions  of  the 
breastplate  with  those  given  by  Jos  cannot,  be 
relied  on  to  give  a  true  C.r  or  a  true  Lat  equivalent 
for  the  Heb  name  of  any  of  the  stones. 

It  may  be  added  that  the  two  descriptions  given 
by  Jos  differ  from  each  other  only  as  regards  the 
order  of  the  stones  in  the  last  two  rows;  in  the  3d 
row,  the  order  is  precisely  reversed;  in  the  4th 
row  the  order  is  clirnxolithos,  onuchion,  bcruUion  for 
Ant,  and  onuchion,  bcruUion,  chrusolithos  for  BJ . 
Ant  was  written  at  greater  leisure  than  BJ ,  and 
was  not  completed  till  18  years  later;  Jos  had  thus 
more  time  for  the  consultation  of  old  MSS.  Speak- 
ing generally,  it  is  more  accurate  than  his  earlier 
treat  ise  as  regards  the  history  of  those  times  of  which 
he  had  no  direct  knowledge;  its  description  of  the 
breastplate  is  more  precise  as  regards  the  arrange- 
ment of  the  stones,  and  is  therefore  the  one  to  which 
the  greater  weight  must  be  given.  It  differs  from 
the  LXX  only  through  the  interchange  of  the  2d 


and  3d  stones  in  the  2d,  3d  and  4th  rows;  and  pos- 
sibly Jos  gave  the  order  from  his  memory  either  of 
the'LXX  or  of  the  actual  breastplate. 

The  only  difference  between  the  descriptions  given  in 
LXX  and  Vulg  is  that  the  last  two  stones,  namely  berul- 
linii     (hrri/llux)    and    onuchion    (onychinus), 
a    Vnlo-atp      are  interchanged. 

,  T  Ji  As  already  pointed  out,  the  Heb  texts  of 

and  LXX         the  LXX  and  KV  must  have  differed  com- 
pletely as  regards  the  descriptions  of  the 
ornaments  of  the  king  of  Tyre;    it  is  thus  not  at  all  cer- 
tain that  they  were  in  complete  accord   as  regards   the 
descriptions    of    the    breastplate.      In    fact. 
Q    tr   t,        ,     it  is  generally  accepted  that  the  Heb  word 
y.  Hebrew     ,lt-,^p h?h    and    the    Or    word    iaspis.    are 
Texts  of  virtually    identical,    and    that    they    were 

TYYanrl  used  to  signify  the  same  kind  of  stone. 
£„  Hence  it  follows  that  the  Heb  text  of  10 V 

•kv  is  not  identical  with  the  Ileb  texts  of  the 

LXX  and  Vulg  VSS  in  respect  of  the  stones 
in  the  2d  and  4th  rows;  if  our  Heb  text  is  correct  as 
regards  i/d.^h' phf-h.  that  stone  was  the  last  stone  in  the 
last  ro\v;  if  the  Heb  texts  of  the  LXX  and  Vulg  VSS 
were  correct,  i^ixh<-ph<~h.  which  had  for  its  (!r  equivalent 
in. •<i>i'<  must  have  been  the  last  stone  in  the  2d  row; 
further  in,nc)n<>n  (LXX)  and  beryllus  (Vulg)  must  be 
equivalent,  not  to  uaxh'-phf-h,  but  to  some  other  stones 
of  the  breastplate. 

Taking  these  matters  into  consideration,  the  following 
have  considerable  claims  to  be  regarded  as  equivalents: 
Heb  Or 

',-><!  hem  sardion 

10.  Equiva-      i>it.,lhah  topaiion 
lence  of             bnr,'k,'th  smaraados 
u    u                         mlphekh                              anthrax 
Hebrew             8applr                              sapphcircs 

and  Greek      ?,•.« /,<•?»  Uouriou 

Names  achntf'* 

'alilamah  amethustoa 

The  remaining  three  stones,  tarxhixh.  ahnham  and 
uahali'im  are  thus  equivalent  to  chrusolithos,  onuchion 
and  berullion,  but  it  is  uncertain  which  Or  name  corre- 
sponds to  any  of  those  Heb  names. 

For  the  interpretation  of  the  Gr  names  of  stones 

mentioned  in  the  LXX  (and  thus  of  the  Ileb  names 

in  the  original  text),  the  work  of  Theo- 

11.  Inter-      phrastus,  a  contemporary  of  the  LXX 
pretation        translators,  is  very  useful.    That  author 
of  Greek        mentions,  besides  krustallos  and  mar- 
Names  garitf'x  which  occur  elsewhere  than  in 

the  description  of  the  breastplate,  nine 
of  the  LXX  names  of  the  breast  plat  e  st  ones,  namely : 
arhuirx,  anu'thuxtos  (as  amethuson),  anthrax,  iaspis, 
ligurion  (as  lugkurion),  onuclu'on,  sappheiros,  sar- 
dion, smaragdos.  The  three  stones  mentioned  in 
the  LXX  but  not  by  Theophrast  us  are  bcruUion, 
ctirnxolilliox  and  topazion.  As  he  mentions  only 
four  stones  that  are  not  referred  to  in  LXX, 
namely  rhrnxi'ikolld,  hualoeidts,  knanofi  and  6mpha.r, 
it  follows  that  the  LXX  translators  at  Alexandria 
introduced  every  important  name  that  was  then 
in  use  at  Athens  for  a  precious  stone. 

In  the  following  alphabetical  list  references  are 
given  to  all  the  verses  in  which  each  name  of  a  pre- 
cious stone  occurs,  and  for  each  use  of  a  tr'1  name 
the  corresponding  word  in  the  original  text. 

•\cluit (~x  (dxa-nis,  achdtes):  probably  LXX  tr  ol 
shebho  (Ex  28  19;  39  12) v  It  is  not  mentioned  in 

Apoe  or  the  NT. 

12  Names  Adamant  (see  also  special  art.):  in 
with  Biblical  Ezk  3  9;  Zee  7  12,  EV  tr  of  Heb 
References  sftdmir. 


of  TIeb  sb'bho:  in  Isa  54  12;   Ezk  27  16,  AV  tr  of 
Heb  kadhkodh. 

'Ahlamah,  fflB>I^:  in  Ex  28  19;  39  12:  3d 
stone,  3d  row,  of  the  breastplate.  LXX  translates 
amdhustos;  Vulg  translates  amethystus;  EV  "ame- 

^rhci  LXX  rendering  amrthustns  is  generally  accepted 
as  correct,  but  the  late  Professor  N.S.  Maskelyne,  F.R.S., 
formerly  (1S57-.SO)  K'cc-])cr  of  Minerals  in  (the  British 
Museum,  gave  reasons  for  regarding  the  ablamahol 
breastplate  times  as  possibly  an  onyx  in  which  white 
bands  alternated  with  waxy-yellow  to  reddish-yellow 

aAmber:    in    Ezk  1  4.27;    8  2,   AV,    ERV    and 


28.r>9 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Stones,  Precious 


AHVm  tr  of  lie!)  haxhinal;  in  Ex  28  10,  RVm 
tr  of  11(4)  h'sht'in. 

Aim'tliHstox  (a.p.€0uo-Tos,  amclhustos) '.  in  Rev  21 
20:  the  12th  foundation  of  the  New  Jerusalem;  Vulg 
translates  aincthyatus;  EV  ''amethyst."  Four  vari- 
eties of  amt'lhyslus  were  recognized  by  Pliny  as  pre- 
cious; all  of  them  were  transparent,  and  of  purple 
tint  or  of  tints  derived  from  purple.  According  to 
LXX,  amethustos  was  the  3d  stone,  3d  row,  of  the 
breastplate,  and  the  stone  occupying  this  position  is 
given  in  our  II eh  text  as  'ahldmdh.  Amethustos  is 
mentioned  under  the  name  amethuson  by  Theophras- 
tus;  he  describes  it  as  a  transparent  stone  resembling 
wine  in  color  and  as  used  by  the  gem  engravers  of 
his  day.  Amctli //.s///.s  and  anicthuson  were  doubt- 
less identical  with  the  amethyst  of  the  present  clay, 
a  purple  variety  of  quart/,  (silica).  Beads  and 
other  ornaments  of  amethyst  found  in  old  Egyp 
tombs  show  that  the  stone  was  regarded  as  precious 
in  very  ancient  times. 

Amethyst:  in  Ex  28  19;  39  12,  EV  tr  of  Heb 
'ahldmah;  in  Rev  21  20,  EV  tr  of  Gr  amethustos. 

Anthrax  (a.vQpa.%,  dnthrax) '.  in  Tob  13  17;  Ecclus 
32  f),  EV  translates  "carbuncle."  According  to 
LXX,  anthrax  was  also  a  stone  of  the  breastplate, 
1st  stone,  2d  row,  but  there  is  uncertainty  as  to  the 
Heb  text  of  the  LXX  in  respect  of  this  word.  The 
anthrax  of  Theophrastus  included  different  kinds 
of  hard,  red  stone  used  by  the  gem  engravers.  It  is 
the  carbunculus  of  Pliny's  time,  and  probably  in- 
cluded the  oriental  ruby  (corundum,  alumina),  the 
balas  ruby  (spinel,  aluminate  of  magnesium),  the 
almandine  (a  kind  of  garnet,  alumino-silicate  of 
iron)  and  pyropc  (another  kind  of  garnet,  alumino- 
silicate  of  magnesium)  of  the  present,  day. 

Barckcth,  1^3:  in  Ex  28  17;  39  10;  Ezk  28 
13:  3d  stone,  1st  row,  of  breastplate.  LXX  proba- 
bly translates  smaragdos,  but  there  is  uncertainty  as 
to  the  Ileb  text  of  the  LXX  in  respect  of  this  word: 
EV  translates  "carbuncle";  RVm  translates  "em- 
erald." The  rendering  smaragdos  may  be  correct, 
but  no  emeralds  of  very  early  age  have  been  found  in 
Egypt.  From  the  similarity  of  the  words  bdrckcth 
and  bdrak  ("lightning"),  it  has  been  suggested  that 
possibly  the  breastplate  stone  was  not  green  but  of 
bluish-red  color,  in  which  case  it  may  have  been  an 
almandine  (garnet).  EV  has  interchanged  the 
names  given  by  LXX  to  the  3d  stone  of  the  1st  row 
(xtnara</dos,  "emerald")  and  the  1st  stone  of  the  2d 
row  (a/nthrax,  "carbuncle"). 

Bdellium  (see  also  special  art.):  in  Gen  2  12; 
Nu  11  7,  EV  tr  of  Heb  b'dholah. 

B'lihdlah,  nb~2:  LXX  translates  anthrax  in  Gen 
2  12,  and  krustallos  in  Nu  11  7;  Vulg  and  EV 
translate  bdellium.  Some  commentators,  rejecting 
both  the  LXX  trs,  interpret  the  material  to  be 
pearl,  others  to  be  the  gum  of  an  Arabian  tree. 

Heridlos  ((B^pvXXos,  bfrtdlos) :  in  Tob  13  17;  Rev 
21  20:  the  8th  foundation  of  the  New  Jerusalem. 
Vulg  translates  beryllus;  EV  translates  "beryl." 
According  to  LXX,  bcridlion  was  a  stone  of  the 
breastplate,  the  2d  stone,  4th  row;  owing  to  uncer- 
tainty as  to  their  Heb  text,  there  is  doubt  as  to  the 
Heb  word  trd  berullion.  Berullos  is  not  mentioned 
by  Theophrastus,  who  may  have  regarded  it  as 
included  in  the  smaragdos  of  his  day. 

In  the  time  of  Pliny  8  varieties  were  recognized;  he 
says  that  beryllus  was  already  thought  by  some  to  bo 
"of  the  same  nature  as  the  smaraydus,  or  at  least  closely 
analogous.  India  produces  them,  and  they  are  rarely  to 
he  found  elsewhere.  The  lapidaries  cut  all  beryls  of  a 
hexagonal  form  because  the  color  which  is  deadened  by 
a  dull  uniformity  of  surface  is  heightened  by  the  reflec- 
tions resulting  from  the  angles.  If  they  are  cut  in  any 
other  way,  these  stones  have  no  brilliancy  whatever. 
The  most  esteemed  beryls  are  those  which  in  color  re- 
semble the  pure  green  of  the  sea.  Some  are  of  opinion 
that  beryls  art;  naturally  angular." 


This  description  suggests  the  identity  of  the  sea- 
green  hcryllus  of  Pliny's  time  with  the  sea-green 
beryl  (alumino-silicate  of  beryllium)  of  the  present 
day. 

Beryl:  in  Ex  28  20;  39  13;  Cant  6  14;  E/k 
1  1(>;  10  9;  28  13;  Did  10  (i,  EV  tr  of  Heb 
tarxhlxh;  in  Gen  2  12;  Ex  25  7  m;  28  9.20;  35 
27m;  1  Ch  29  2m;  Job  28  Kim,  RVmtrof  Heb 
shuhnnr,  in  Tob  13  17;  Rev  21  20,  EV  tr  of  Gr 
berullos. 

Carbuncle:  in  Ex  28  17;  39  10;  E/k  28  13,  EV 
tr  of  Heb  barekHh:  in  Ex  28  IS  m;  39  1 1  ;  E/k  27 
It);  28  13,  RVm  tr  of  Heb  nophekh;  in  Isa  64  12, 
EV  tr  of  Heb  'ekdali;  Tob  13  17;  Ecelus  32  r,. 
10  V  t  r  of  Gr  an  tit  rax. 

Chalcedony:  in  Ex  28  20,  RVm  tr  of  Ileb  tar- 
shlsh;  in  Rev  21  19,  EV  tr  of  Gr  ch<ill;t,lrm. 

Chalkcddn  (\a.\Ki\^<S>v,  chalkcdon) :  in  Rev  21  19: 
the  3d  foundation  of  the  New  Jerusalem.  Vulg 
translates  calcedonius;  EV  translates  "chalcedony." 
Though  the  name  Chalcedon  (Lat  form)  occurs  in 
Pliny,  it  is  not  as  the  name  of  a  stone  but  as  that 
of  a  free  town  then  standing  on  the  southern  side 
of  the  Bosphorus,  probably  close  to  the  site  on 
which  Scutari  now  stands.  Chalcedon  had  once 
been  noted  for  its  copper  mines;  but.  the  latter, 
when  Pliny  wrote,  had  been  so  far  exhausted  that 
they  were  no  longer  worked. 

Pliny  refers  to  a  kind  of  smaragdus  (a  green  stone)  as 
having  been  found  near  Chalcedon,  but  adds  that  the 
stones  were  of  very  small  size  and  value.  They  were 
"brittle,  and  of  a  color  far  from  distinctly  pronounced; 
they  resembled  in  their  tints  the  feathers  that  are  seen 
in  the  tail  of  the  peacock  or  on  the  neck  of  the  pigeon. 
More  or  less  brilliant,  too,  according  to  the  angle  at 
which  they  were  viewed,  they  presented  an  appearance 
like  that  of  veins  and  scales."  In  another  place  he  refers 
to  a  stone  from  Chalcedon  or  Calchedon  (another  read- 
ing) as  being  an  innpin  of  turbid  hue.  It  is  possible  that 
at  Patmos  or  Ephesus,  at  one  of  which  St.  John  was 
living  when  he  wrote  the  Book  of  Rev,  the  word  chalke- 
ddn  was  used  to  specify  the  particular  kind  of  smaragdus 
or  ins  pis  that  had  been  found  near  the  town  of  that 
name.  It  is  uncertain  what  name  would  be  given  to 
such  a  stone  in  the  present  day,  but  the  signification 
now  attached  to  the  name  "chalcedony"  (erypto- 
crystalline  silica)  cannot  be  traced  farther  back  than  the 
15th  cent. 

Chrusolithos    (xpvo-6\i.0os,   chrusolithos]'.   in    Rev 

21  20:  the  7th  foundation  of  the  New  Jerusalem. 
Vulg  translates  chrysolithus;  AV  translates  "chryso- 
lyte";  RV  translates  "chrysolite."  According  to 
LXX  chrusolithos  was  one  of  the  stones  of  the 
breastplate  (1st  stone,  4th  row),  but  there  is  un- 
certainty as  to  the  Heb  text  of  the  LXX  in  respect 
of  this  word;  the  name  is  not  mentioned  by  Theo- 
phrastus. The  chrysi>litfnts  of  Pliny  was  a  "trans- 
parent stone  with  a  refulgence  like  that  of  gold." 
Those  were  most  valued  which  "when  placed  by 
the  side  of  gold,  impart  to  it  a  sort  of  whitish 
hue,  and  so  give  it  the  appearance  of  silver." 

It  may  perhaps  have  included  the  yellow  sapphire 
(alumina),  the  yellow  quartz  (citrine,  silica)  and  the 
yellow  jargoon  (zircon,  silicate  of  zirconium)  of  the 
present  day.  The  term  "chrysolite"  is  now  applied  to 
a  different  mineral,  namely,  to  a  yellow  variety  of 
plivine  (silicate  of  magnesium  and  iron),  a  species  that 
includes  the  green  precious  stone  peridot  as  another  of 
its  varieties. 

Chrusoprasos  (xpvo-6-irpao-os,  chrusaprasos) :  in 
Rev  21  20:  the  l()th  foundation  of  the  New 
Jerusalem.  Vulg  and  AV  translate  chrysoprasus; 
RV  translates  "chrysoprase."  The  chrysoprasus 
was  regarded  by  some  naturalists  of  the  time  of 
Pliny  as  a  variety  of  beryllus.  The  1st  variety 
of  btryllus  and  the  most  esteemed  was,  as  stated 
above,  of  a  pure  sea-green  color;  the  2d  was 
paler,  and  approached  a  golden  tint;  the  3d,  allied 
to  the  2d  in  brilliancy  but  more  pallid,  was  the 
chrysoprasus.  The  latter  was  thought  by  other 
naturalists  to  belong  to  an  independent  genus  of 
stone.  In  another  place  Pliny  describes  the  color 


Stones,  Precious      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  1JIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2800 


as  like  Unit,  of  (lie  leek,  but  us  varying  in  tint  be- 
tween I  he  lop<r.i,on  of  liis  day  (our  peridot.)  and  gold. 
The  si  out;  may  have  been  a  yellowish-green  plasma 
(c/iaZm/OH//,  crypto-crystallinc  silica)  or,  as  suggested 
by  King,  pale  chrysoberyl  (ahiniinate  of  beryllium); 
it  is  not  the  chrysoprase  of  the  present  day,  which 
is  an  apple-green  chalcedony  (colored  by  nickel). 

Chrysolite,  chrysolyte:  "chrysolite"  in  Ezk  28 
13,  AVin  tr  of  Heb  tarxhlsh;  Rev  21  20,  RV  tr  of 
CJr  chrusolithos;  "chrysolyte"  in  Rev  21  20,  AV 
tr  of  (!r  chrusolilhos. 

Chrysoprase,  chrysoprasus :  "chrysoprase"  in 
Ezk  27  1C.,  AVm  tr  of  Heb  kadhkodh;  Kev  21  20, 
RV  tr  of  Cr  chrusoprasos;  "chrysoprasus"  in  Rev 
21  20,  AV  tr  of  Cr  chrusoprasos, 

Coral,  red  coral  (see  special  art.):  "coral"  in 
Job  28  IS;  E/k  27  10,  EV  tr  of  Heb  ratnoth; 
Lain  4  7,  RVm  tr  of  Heb  p1  nltnin;  "red  coral"  in 
Job  28  IS,  RVm  tr  of  lleb  p'nlmm. 

Crystal  (see  special  art.) :  in  Job  28  17,  AV  tr  of 
Hub  z'khukhlth;  E/k  1  22,  AV  tr  of  Hel)  kcrah; 
in  Job  28  IS,  RV  trof  Heb  gabhlsh;  in  Rev  4'ti;  22 
1,  EV  tr  of  C,r  krustal(<>x;  in  Rev  21  11,  EV  tr  of 
C!r  krustcdlizo  ("to  shine  like  crystal"). 

Diamond:  in  Jer  17  1,  EV  tr  of  Heb  shanur- 
in  Ex  28  IS;  39  11;  E/k  28  13,  EV  tr  of  Heb 
yaltalom. 

'Kkdah,  rn~X:  in  Isa  64  12:  LXX  translates 
krustallos;  Vulg  peripli rases  as  lapidfs  sculpt  i 
('•engraved  stones");  EV  translates  "carbuncles." 
From  the  similarity  to  !"!"£  ,  kadhah,  "to  burn," 
it  is  interpreted  as  meaning  fiery  or  sparkling, 
whence  comes  the  rendering  "carbuncles." 

Electrum  (see  special  art,):  E/k  1  4,  RVm  tr 
of  H.eb  hashmal,  "amber." 

Emerald:  in  Ex  28  IS;  39  11;  Ezk  27  ICr 
28  13,  EV  tr  of  Heb  nophekh;  in  Ex  28  17;  39 
10,  RVm  tr  of  II  eb  barckrth;  in  Tob  13  10;  Jth 
10  21;  Ecclus  32  (5;  Rev  21  19,  EV  tr  of  Cr 
smaragdos;  in  Rev  21  19,  EV  tr  of  Gr  adj.  smardg- 
dlnos. 

GabJush,  E^:  in  Job  28  18:  LXX  transliter- 
ates gabix;  AV  translates  "pearls";  RV  translates 
"crystal."  From  the  similarity  to  1»3|,  gabhash, 
"ice,"  the  rendering  "crystal"  is  suggested. 

IJdKhmnl,  b^Tpri:  in  Ezk  1  4.27;  82:  LXX 
translates  clektron;  Vulg  and  RVm  translate  elec- 
trnm;  AV,  ERV  and  ARVm  translate  "amber"; 
ARV  translates  "glowing  metal."  The  clcldron 
of  the  time  of  the  LXX  and  Theophrastus  was 
the  amber  of  (he  present  day;  in  (he  time  of 
Pliny  amber  was  an  object  of  luxury  ranked  next 
to  crystal,  and  the  term  clcctrum  was  then  applied, 
not  only  to  amber,  but  also  to  a  metallic  alloy  of 
gold  and  silver. 

Huakinthos  (\>a.Kiv0os,  huakinthos} :  in  Rev 
9  17;  21  20:  the  llth  foundation  of  the  New 
Jerusalem.  Vulg  translates  hyacinthus;  AV  trans- 
lates "jacinth";  RV  translates  "jacinth"  (Rev 
21  20)  and  "hyacinth"  (Rev  9  17);  RVm  trans- 
lates "sapphire"  (Rev  21  20).  Pliny  describes  the 
hyacinthus  as  being  very  different  from  amcthys- 
tns,  "though  partaking  of  a  color  that  closely 
borders  upon  it"  and  as  being  of  a  more  diluted 
violet.  It  may  have  been  the  pale  blue  sapphire 
(alumina)  of  the  present  day;  the  modern  hyacinth, 
or  jacinth,  is  a  quite  different  stone,  a  brownish  to 
reddish  zircon  (silicate  of  zirconium). 

Hyacinth,  jacinth  (see  also  special  art.  on  HY- 
ACINTH): "hyacinth"  in  Rev  9  17,  RV  tr  of  Gr 
huakinthos;  "jacinth"  in  Ex  28  19;  39  12,  RV 
tr  of  Heb  leshcm;  in  Rev  9  17;  21  20,  AV'tr  of 
Cr  huakinthos. 

laspis  (I'ao-ms  laspis}:  in  Rev  4  3;  21  ll.lSf: 
the  1st  foundation  of  the  New  Jerusalem.  Vulg 


translates  jnspis;  EV  translates  "jasper"  Ac- 
cording to  LXX  /».sy,/.s  was  the  3d  stone,  2d  row, 
of  the  breastplate,  but  there  is  uncertainty  as  to 
the  Heb  text  of  the  LXX  in  respect  of  this 
word;  LXX  translates  also  kadhko:lh  as  tax  pi  a 
;Lsa  54  12).  Pliny  describes  iaspis  as  being  gen- 
erally green  and  often  transparent;  he  recognizes 
as  many  as  14  varieties. 

*,  ^°  adds  that  "many  countries  produce  this  stone- 
that  of  India  is  like  smarm/Una  in  color;  that  of  Cyprus 
:s  hard  and  of  a  full  sea-green;  and  that  of  Persia  is  sky- 
blue.  Similar  to  Hie  last  is  the  Caspian  iaspis.  On 
the  banks  of  the  river  Thermodon  the  iaspis  is  of  an 
azure  color;  in  Plirygia  it  is  purple;  and  in  Cappadociu 
Of  an  azure-purple,  somber  and  not  refulgent  The 
best  kind  is  that  which  has  a  shade  of  purple  the  next 
best  being  the  rose-colored,  and  the  next  the  stone  with 
the  green  color  of  the  nntur(i,j<lun,"  etc. 

The  term  "jasper"  is  now  restricted  to  opaque 
Stones;  the  green  transparent  kind  of  iaspis  may 
have  been  identical  with  the  green  chalcedony 
(crypto-crystalline  silica)  called  plasma  at  tin- 
present  day. 

Jasper:  in  Ex  28  20;  39  13;  Ezk  28  13,  EV 
tr  of  lleb  yashepheh;  in  Rev  43;  21  11  IS  19 
EV  tr  of  Cr  ' 


Kadhkudh,  "i3~2  :  in  Isa  54  12;  Ezk  27  1(1: 
LXX  translates  iaspis  (Isa  54  12)  and  transliter- 
ates chorchor  (Ezk  27  111);  A  ulg  translates  /V/.s-/,/* 
(Isa  54  12)  and  transliterates  c/w/cAo^  (F,zk  27  Hi); 
AV  translates  "airate";  AVm  translates  "chryso- 
prase" (Ezk  27  Hi);  RV  translates  "ruby."  There 
is  little  to  indicate  the  probable  meaning  of  (lie 
word. 

Kcrah,  HP]?:  in  Ezk  1  22:  LXX  translates 
krustallos;  Vulg  translates  cnjxltdlntn;  EV  trans- 
lates "crystal";  RVm  translates  "ice."  The  trans- 
lations are  suggested  by  the  similarity  to  the  lleb 
kcrah,  rnj3 ,  "ice." 

Krustallos  (KputrraXXos,  krtixlaUos}:  in  Rev  4  0; 
22  1:  Vulg  translates  c.ryslalluin;  EV  translates 
"crystal."  The  cry  stall  urn  of  Pliny  was  the  rock- 
crystal  (clear  quartz)  of  the  present,  day.  Among 
the  localities  cited  for  cn/sta1lnm  by  Pliny  are  "the 
crags  of  the  Alps,  so  difficult  of  access  that  it  is 
usually  found  necessary  to  be  suspended  by  ropes 
in  order  to  extract  it." 

Lapis  lazuli:  in  Rev  21  19,  RVm  tr  of  Cr  ttap- 
pheiros. 

Lesftew,  DC5  :  in  Ex  28  19;  39  12:  1st  stone,  3d 
row,  of  the  breastplate.  LXX  probably  translates 
ligurion,  but  then;  is  uncertainty  as  to  their  II eb 
text;  Vulg  probably  translates  liguriuft;  AV  trans- 
lates "ligure";  RV  translates  "jacinth";  J{\'m 
translates  "amber." 

The  ligurion  of  LXX  is  probably  identical  with  the 
lugkuriun  of  Theophrast  us;  this  was  a  yellow  to  yellowish- 
red  stone,  used  by  seal  engravers,  aiid  was  transparent 
and  difficult  to  polish.  Tin;  yellow  li,/urion  may  be  the 
yellow  jargoon  of  the  present  day  (zircon,  silicate  of 
zirconium),  a  stone  much  used  by  the  ancient  Or  and 
Rom  engravers;  but  as  the  jargoon  has  not  been  found 
among  ancient  Egyp  work,  it  has  been  suggested  that  the 
ligurion  of  the  breastplate  may  have  been  a  yellow 
quartz  (citrine)  or  agate.  The  yellowish-red  ligurion 
may  have  been  one  of  the  stones  to  which  the  name 
"jacinth"  (also  a  zircon)  is  now  applied.  Professor 
Maskelyne,  rejecting  the  LXX  tr,  suggests  that  the 
It-shem  was  identical  with  the  nrshrm  of  the  Egyptians, 
namely  the  green  feldspar  now  called  ainazon  stone;  as 
an  alternative  rendering  to  this  he  suggests  yellow  jasper. 
The  tr  "amber"  (RVm)  is  not  likely  to  be  correct,  for 
that  material  would  have  been  too  soft  for  use  as  a  stone 
of  the  breastplate-;  its  properties  do  not  accord  with 
those  assigned  by  Theophrastus  to  the  lugkurion. 

Ligure:  in  Ex  38  19;  39  12,  AV  tr  of  Heb 
leshem. 

Ligurion  (Xi-yvptov,  ligurion') :  in  LXX  Ex  28 
19;  39  12,  LXX  tr  of  Heb  leshem:  1st,  stone,  3d 
row,  of  breastplate. 

Afargarilcs  ((lapyapCrTis,  margantcs):   in  Mt  7  0; 


28G1 


TlU'l  IXTKHXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE   KXCYCLOPAKDIA      Stones,  Precious 


13  IT).  1C,;  1  Tim  2  '.);  Rev  18  12.16;  21  21: 
Vulg  translates  tnargarila;  EV  translates  "pearl." 
Tin:  ntargarin's  is  men!  ioned  by  Theophrastus  ;is 
being  one  of  (lie  precious  stones,  but  not  pellucid, 
as  produced  in  a  kind  of  oyster  and  in  the  pinna, 
and  as  brought  from  the  Indies  and  the  shores  of 
certain  islands  in  the  Red  Sea.  Hence  it  was 
identical  with  the  pearl  of  the  present  day. 

Nophekh,  TfBb:  in  Ex  28  IS;  39  11;  Ezk  27 
16;  28  13:  1st  stone,  2d  row,  of  the  breastplate. 
There  is  uncertainty  as  to  the  Hob  text  used  by  the 
LXX,  but  probably  ndphckh  is  translated  anthrax 
(except  in  Ezk  27  16,  where  the  text  differs);  Vulg 
probably  translates  carbunculus',  EV  translates 
"emerald";  RVm  translates  "carbuncle."  EV 
interchange's  the  names  given  by  the  LXX  to  the 
3d  stone,  1st  row  (smaragdos,  "emerald")  and  the 
1st  stone,  2d  row  (anthrax,  "carbuncle").  Professor 
Maskelyne  suggests  that  the  nophckh  of  the  breast- 
plate may  have  been  the  mophak  or  mafka  of  the 
Egyp  hieroglyphics,  the  turquoise  of  the  present 
day. 

'Odhcm,  rn&:  in  Ex  28  17;  39  10;  Ezk  28  13: 
1st  stone,  1st  row,  of  the  breastplate.  LXX  prob- 
ably translates  sardion*  Vulg  probably  translates 
sardius;  EV  translates  "'sardius";  EVm  translates 
"ruby."  The  Heb  word  is  related  to  'adham,  D1$, 
"to  be  red,"  and  signifies  a  reddish  stone;  it  may 
have  been  sard  (a  name  given  not  only  to  red,  but 
also  to  pale  reddish-yellow  or  brown,  translucent 
chalcedony),  but  was  more  probably  carnelian,  a 
red  stone  closely  allied  to  sard,  and  much  used  by 
the  ancient  Egyptians  and  Assyrians. 

Onuchion,  onux  (bvii^ov,  onuchion,  ovv£,  6nux)\ 
"onux,"  LXX  tr  of  Ileb  shoham  (Job  28  16); 
onuchion,  perhaps  LXX  tr  of  shoham  in  the  de- 
scriptions of  the  ornaments  of  the  king  of  Tyre 
(Ezk  28  13)  and  the  stones  of  the  breastplate 
(being  there  made  3d  stone,  4th  row,  in  Ex  28  20; 
39  13),  but  there  is  uncertainty  as  to  the  Heb  text 
of  the  LXX;  Vulg  translates  onyx,  lapis  onychinus, 
lapis  sardonychus.  The  onuchion  of  Theophrastus 
was  a  hard,  translucent  stone  used  by  the  seal 
engravers;  it  consisted  of  white  and  dusky  layers 
in  alternation.  The  onyx  of  Rom  times  was  an 
opaque  stone  of  white  and  black  layers,  like  the 
onyx  of  the  present  day. 

Onyx:  in  Gen  2  12;  Ex  25  7;  28  9.20;  35  9. 
27;  39  6.13;  1  Ch  29  2;  Job  28  16;  Ezk  28  13, 
EV  tr  of  Heb  shoham. 

Pearl:  in  Job  28  IS,  AV  tr  of  Heb  gabhlsh; 
in  Job  28  IS,  RVm  tr  of  Ileb  p'nlirim;  in  Alt  7  G; 
13  45  f;  1  Tim  2  9;  Rev  18  12.16;  21  20.21, 
EV  tr  of  Gr  margarites. 

Penlnlm,  C^riE :  in  Job  28  18;  Prov  3  15; 
8  11;  20  15;  31  10;  Lam  4  7:  LXX  (from  which 
Proy  20  15  is  missing)  periphrases  the  word  or  had 
a  different  II eb  text;  Vulg  translates  ebur  antiquum 
("old  ivory")  in  Lam  4  7,  but  elsewhere  peri- 
phrases the  word  or  had  a  different  Ileb  text;  EV 
translates  "rubies";  RVm  translates  "red  coral," 
or  "pearls,"  except  for  Lam  4  7,  where  the  tr  is 
"corals."  The  word  is  similar  to  an  Arab,  word 
meaning  "branches"  and  may  signify  red  coral,  which 
has  been  highly  esteemed  since  very  ancient  times; 
a  description  of  kordllion  is  given  by  Theophrastus. 
Pliny  says  that  in  his  day  the  reddest  and  most 
branched  was  most  valued. 

Pitdhah,  rnips  :  in  Ex  28  17;  39  10;  Job  28  19; 
Ezk  28  13:  2d  stone,  1st  row,  of  the  breastplate. 
LXX  translates  topazion  in  Job  28  19  and  probably 
also  in  the  other  verses;  Vulg  translates  topazius; 
EV  translates  "topaz."  The  topazion  of  ancient 
times  appears  to  have  been  scarcely  known  before 
the  Ptolemaic  period,  and  Professor  Maskelyne 
suggested  that  the  Heb  word  may  possibly  be 


allied   to  li/jit'lii,  uliich    in    I'ers  and    Arab,    signifies 
"garnet ." 

Ramoth:  in  Job  28  Is,  AVm  tr  of  Ileb  ra  ninth. 
Ramoth,  ni^Xn :  in  Job  28  IS;  Ezk  27  Hi: 
LXX  translates  ntclcora  (Job  28  IS)  and  rainoth 
(Ezk  27  16);  Vulg  periphrases  the  passages;  EV 
translates  "coral";  AVm  translates  "rarnoth"  (only 
in  Job  28  IS).  There  is  little  to  indicate  the 
meaning  of  the  Ileb  word. 

Ruby:  in  Job  28  IS;  Prov  3  15;  8  11;  20  15; 
31  10;  Lam  4  7,  EV  tr  of  Ileb  penln~tw;  in  Isa 
54  12;  Ezk  27  16,  RV  tr  of  Heb  kadhkodh;  in  Ex 
28  17;  39  10;  Ezk  28  13,  AVm  tr  of  Heb  'odlwrn. 

Sappheiros  (crdir^ipos,  sappheiros):  in  Tob  13 
16;  Rev  21  19:  the  2d  foundation  of  the  New  Jeru- 
salem. Vulg  translates  sapphirus;  EV  translates 
"sapphire";  RVm  translates  "lapis  lazuli"  (but 
only  in  Rev  21  19).  According  to  LXX,. sappheiros 
was  the  2d  stone,  3d  row,  of  the  breastplate,  but 
there  is  uncertainty  as  to  the  Ileb  text.  Pliny 
describes  sapphirus  as  "refulgent  with  spots  like 
gold.  It  is  also  of  an  azure  color,  though  some- 
times, but  rarely,  it  is  purple;  the  best  kind  being 
that  which  comes  from  Media.  In  no  case,  how- 
ever, is  this  stone  transparent."  These  character- 
istics correspond  to  the  lapis  lazuli  (sulphate-silicate 
of  sodium  and  aluminium;,  not  to  the  sapphire 
(alumina)  of  the  present  day. 

Sappir,  TED:  in  Ex  24  10;  28  18;  39  11;  Job 
28  6.16;  Cant  5  14;  Isa  54  11;  Lam  4  7;  Ezk  1 
26;  10  1;  28  13:  2d  stone,  2d  row,  of  the  breast- 
plate. LXX  translates  sappheiros;  Vulg  translates 
sapphirus  and  (Ex  24  10)  lapis  sapphirinus;  EV 
translates  "sapphire."  The  Ileb  word  isuniversally 
accepted  as  equivalent  to  the  (Ir  sappheiros;  that 
name  _was  used,  not  for  the  stone  now  known  as 
sapphire,  but_for  that  now  known  as  lapis  lazuli,  a 
substance  which  was  regarded  by  the  ancient  Egyp- 
tians as  a  precious  stone. 

Sardine  (stone),  sardius:  "sardine"  (stone)  in 
Rev  4  3,  AV  tr  of  Gr  sdrdinon,  an  error  of  text  for 
sardion;  "sardius"  in  Rev  4  3,  RV  tr  of  Gr  sar- 
dion;  in  Rev  21  20,  EV  tr  of  Gr  sardion;  in  Ex 
28  17;  39  10;  Ezk  28  13,  EV  tr  of  Ileb  'odhcm. 

Sardion  (<rdp8i.ov,  sardion'):  in  Rev  4  3;  21  20: 
the  6th  foundation  of  the  Xew  Jerusalem.  Accord- 
ing to  LXX,  sardion  was  tiie  1st  stone,  1st  row, 
of  the  breastplate.  Vulg  translates  sardius;  AV 
translates  "sardine"  (stone)  (Rev  4  3)  and  "sar- 
dius" (Rev  21  20);  RV  translates  "sardius."  The 
sarda  of  Pliny's  time  was  much  used  by  the  seal 
engravers.  There  were  three  Indian  varieties,  all 
of  them  transparent,  one  of  them  red  in  color; 
there  was  then  no  precious  stone  in  more  common 
use;  those  of  honey-color  were  less  valued.  It 
probably  included  both  the  sard  and  the  carnelian 
of  the  present  day  (crypto-crystalline  silica). 

Sapphire:  in  Ex  24  10;  28  IS;  39  11;  Job  28 
6.16;  Cant  5  11;  Isa  54  11;  Lam  4  7;  Ezk  1 
26;  10  1;  28  13,  EV  tr  of  Heb  sapplr;  in  Tob  13 
16;  Rev  21  19,  EV  tr  of  Gr  sappheiros;  in  Rev  21 
20,  RVm  tr  of  Gr  huakinthos. 

Sardonux  (<rap86vwg,  sardonux}:  in  Rev  21  20: 
the  5th  foundation  of  the  New  Jerusalem.  Vulg 
and  EV  translate  sardonyx.  According  to  Pliny, 
the  name  sardonyx  was  at  first  given  to  an  Indian 
(red)  sarda  with  a  layer  of  white  in  it,  both  being 
transparent. 

Pliny  says  that  later  three  colors  were  considered 
essential,  but  that  they  might  be  repeated  indefinitely. 
The  Arabian  sardonyx  was  "characterized  by  several 
different  colors,  black  or  azure  for  the  base 'and  ver- 
milion surrounded  with  a  line  of  rich  white  for  the  upper 
part,  not  without  a  certain  glimpse  of  purple  us  the  white 
passes  into  the  red." 

The  sardonux  of  St.  John's  t  ime  is  included  in  the 
sardonyx  of  the  present  day. 


Stones,  Precious 
Stout,  Stoutness 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2862 


Sardonyx:  in  Rev  21  20,  EV  Ir  of  fir  sardonux; 
Ex  28  IS;  39  11,  RVm  tr  of  Heb  yahalom. 

Shannr,  "PETD  :  in  Jer  17  1;  Ezk  39;  Zee  7 
12:  LXX  omits  Jer  17  1,  and  in  the  other  two 
verses  either  periphrases  the  word  or  had  a  different 
text:  Vulg  translates  (nilgais')  adamantinus  in  Jer 
17  l',  and  adamas  in  the  other  two  verses;  EV 
translates  "diamond"  (Jer  17  1)  and  "adamant" 
(E/k  3  9;  Zee  7  12).  Shamir  was  a  hard  material 
used  for  engraving  precious  stones;  in  the  days  of 
Jeremiah,  Ezekiel  and  Zechariah,  splinters  of  both 
diamond  and  corundum  (white  sapphire  or  adamant 
stone)  were  probably  available  for  the  purpose. 
Both  diamond  and  adamant  are  Eng.  modifications 
of  the  Lat,  adamas;  the  form  "diamond"  has  been 
restricted  for  some  centuries  to  the  more  precious 
of  the  above  stones. 

Sh'bho,  imp:  in  Ex  28  19;  39  12:  the  2d  stone, 
3d  row,  of  the  breastplate.  Both  LXX  and  Vulg 
probably  translate  achatf-s,  but  their  Heb  texts 
are  uncertain:  EV  translates  "agate."  The  name 
arhatTs  was  given  in  ancient  times  to  certain  stones 
having  banded  structures,  the  agates  of  the  present 
day.  In  the  time  of  Theophrastus  achates  was  sold 
at  a  great  price,  but  by  the  time  of  Pliny  had 
ceased  to  be  a  precious  stone.  Professor  Maskelyne 
suggests  that  the  sh'bho  of  the  breastplate  may 
have  signified  the  "stone  of  Sheba"  or  "Seba,  a 
district  in  Southern  Arabia,  and  have  been  the 
Arabian  onvx. 

Shoham,  Cnt?:  in  Gen  2  12;  Ex  25  7;  28  9. 
20;  35  9.27;  39  6.13;  1  Ch  29  2;  Job  28  16; 
Ezk  28  13:  the  2d  stone,  4th  row,  of  the  breast  - 
pl-ite  LXX  translates  prdsinos,  i.e.  "leek-green 
stone"  (('.en  2  12),  sardion  (Ex  25  7;  359), 
snmragdos  (Ex  28  9;  35  27),  beruttion,  probably 
through  interchange  of  words  in  the  Heb  text 
(Ex  28  20;  39  13),  soom  (1  Ch  29  2),  onux  (Job 
28  16)  and  perhaps  onnchion  (E/k  28  13);  Vulg 
translates  onyx  (Ezk  28  13),  lapis  sardonychus 
(Job  28  16)  and  lapis  onychinus  elsewhere;  EV 
translates  "onyx";  RVm  translates  "beryl"  (except 
in  Ezk  28  13).  Professor  Maskelyne  and  Professor 
Sayce,  accept  ing  green  as  the  color  of  ahoham,  have 
e\i)ressed  the  opinion  that  the  stone  known  by  that 
name  in  very  early  times  was  the  stone  called  'siamu 
by  the  Assyrians,' and  therefore  the  green  turquoise; 
Professor  Maskelyne  gives  "amazon  stone"  as  an 
alternative  rendering  of  the  word.  Berullion  is 
given  by  LXX  as  the  2d  stone,  onnchion  as  the 
3d  stone,  of  the  4th  row;  sardion  as  the  1st  stone, 
smaragdos  as  the  3d  stone,  of  the  1st  row;  but  their 
Heb  text  is  uncertain. 

Smaragdinos,  smaragdos  (o-|iapa^8ivos,  smardg- 
dinos):  in  Rev  4  3:  Vulg  translates  smaragdinus ; 
EV  translates  "emerald."  Smaragdos  (<rfj.dpa.y8os, 
smdragdos)  in  Tob  13  16;  Jth  10  21;  Ecclus  32  5; 
Rev  21  19:  Vulg  translates  smaragdus;  EV  trans- 
lates "emerald."  According  to  LXX,  smaragdos 
was  the  3d  stone,  1st  row,  of  the  breastplate,  but 
their  Heb  text  is  uncertain.  The  smaragdos  of 
Theophrastus  was  a  small,  scarce,  presumably 
green,  stone  used  by  the  gem  engravers.  In  Pliny's 
time  the  genus  smaragdus  comprised  no  fewer  than 
12  kinds;  one  of  them  was  the  emerald  of  the  pres- 
ent day,  and  probably  the  smaragdos  of  Theo- 
phrastus. 

Tarshish,  flrttnn :  in  Ex  28  20;  39  13;  Cant 
6  14;  Ezk  1  16;  10  9;  28  13;  Dnl  10  6:  the  1st 
stone,  4th  row,  of  the  breastplate.  LXX  translates 
tharsis  (Cant  5  14;  Ezk  1  16;  Dnl  10  6),  an- 
thrax (Ezk  10  9) ;  in  the  remaining  verses  there  is 
uncertainty  as  to  the  order  of  the  Heb  words  in  the 
several  texts.  The  most  likely  LXX  equivalent 
of  tarshish  is  either  chrusolithos  or  beruttion;  Vulg 


translates  hyacinthns  (Cant  5  14),  mare  ("sea") 
(Ezk  1  16),  chrysolithus  (Ezk  10  9;  Dnl  10  6). 
LXX  gives  anthrax  as  the  1st  stone,  2d  row, 
chrusolithos  as  the  1st  stone,  4th  row,  btrnllion  as 
the  2d  stone,  4th  row,  of  the  breastplate;  EV 
translates  "beryl";  AVm  translates  "chrysolite"  (in 
Ezk  28  13  only);  RVm  translates  "chalcedony" 
(Ex  28  20;  39  13),  "topaz"  (Cant  5  14)  and 
"stone  of  Tarshish"  (Ezk  10  9).  Professor  Maske- 
lyne suggests  that  the  stone  may  have  been  citrine 
(quart/),  if  yellow  as  suggested  by  chrusolithos,  and 
green  jasper,  if  green  as  suggested  by  bcrnllwn. 

Topaz:  in  Ex  28  17;  39  10;  Job  28  19;  Ezk  28 
13,  EV  1r  of  Heb  pi.tedhah;  in  Rev  21  20,  EV  tr  of 
(ir  topazion;  in  Cant  5  14,  RVm  tr  of  Heb  tarshish. 

Topazion  (Toird^iov,  topaziori)'.  in  Rev  21  20: 
the  9th  foundat  ion  of  the  New  Jerusalem.  Accord- 
ing to  LXX  topazion  was  the  2d  stone,  1st  row,  of 
the  breastplate.  Vulg  translates  topazius;  EV 
translates  "topaz. 


Yahiilom,  DrP :  in  Ex  28  18;  3911;  Ezk 
28  13:  the  3d  stone,  2d  row,  of  the  breastplate. 
Owing  to  the  uncertainty  as  to  the  order  of  the 
words  in  the  Heb  text  of  the  LXX,  there  is  uncer- 
tainty as  to  the  (ir  equivalent  of  yahalom;  probably 
it  is  'one  of  the  words  chnixolitlios,  Ix'rnllion,  onu- 
chinn,  given  by  the  LXX  as  the  names  of  the  stones 
of  the  4th  row.  EV  translates  "diamond";  this  is 
certainly  wrong,  for  the  stone  had  a  name  engraved 
on  it  and  the  method  of  engraving  a  diamond  was 
not  invented  till  2,000  or  3,000  years  after  the 
breast  plate  was  made;  nor  were  diamonds,  if  known 
at  all,  then  known  so  large  as  to  be  comparable  in 
respect  of  size,  with  the  other  stones  of  the  breast- 
plate. RVm  translates  "sardonyx"  (in  Ex  only). 
Professor  Maskelyne  suggests  that  the  Heb  yah&- 
lom and  the  Gr  hualos  may  be  kindred  words  and 
that  yahalom  may  have  been  a  bluish  glass  (con- 
sidered valuable  in  very  early  times),  or  blue  chal- 
cedony, or  perhaps  even  beryl. 

Yash'pheh,  n?t? :  in  Ex  28  20;  39  13;  Ezk 
28  13:  the  3d  stone,  4th  row,  of  the  breastplate. 
LXX  probably  translates  iaspis,  though  iaspis  is 
placed  by  LXX  as  t  he  3d  stone,  2d  row ;  Vulg  proba- 
bly translates  jas/ns;  EV  translates  "jasper."  The 
equivalence  of  the  Heb  yash'pheh  and  the  Gr  taspis 
is  generally  accepted. 

Z''khukhlth,  PIVOT:  in  Job  28  17:  LXX  trans- 
lates hualos,  a  name  given  at  first  to  any  trans- 
parent stone,  but  in  later  times  only  to  glass;  Vulg 
translates  vitrum;  AV  translates  "crystal";  RV 
translates  "glass."  Z'khukhlth  is  related  to  a  Heb 
word  meaning  "to  be  pure,"  whence  the  renderings 
crystal  and  glass.  LAZAKUS  FLETCHER 

STONING,  ston'ing.     See  PUNISHMENTS. 

STOOL,  stool  (S"1^,  'obhnayim):  It  is  not 
clear  what  the  character  and  purpose  of  this  stool 
were  (LXX  has  no  reference  to  it) .  It  seems  to  have 
been  a  chair  of  a  peculiar  sort  upon  which  a  woman 
reclined  in  parturition  (Ex  1  16).  The  Heb  word 
is  in  the  dual  number  and  primarily  means  two 
stones."  The  only  other  place  where  it  occurs^  is 
Jer  18  3,  where  it  is  rendered  "wheels"  (LXX 
ttrl  TUV  \l8uv,  epl  ton  lithon,  "on  the  stones'  ). 
In  2  K  4  10,  the  word  trd  in  AV  as  "stool" 


2SG3 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Stones,  Precious 
Stout,  Stoutness 


ki$se')  is  in  RV  more  correctly  tr'1  "sc:il  ."     See  also 
BIRTH-STOOL;  SEAT.  JESSE   L.  COTTON 

STORAX,  std'raks.     See  POI-LAK;  STACTE. 

STORE-CITIES,  stdr'cit-i/  (pi:??1)?  ,  mixk'itdlli): 
RV  Ex  1  11  (of  PITHOM  and  RAAMSES  [q.v.])  for 
AV  "treasure  cities"  (cf  1  K  9  10;  2  Ch  8  4.0; 
16  4,  etc).  Depots  of  provisions  and  magazines 
of  arms. 

STOREHOUSES,  stdr'houz-iz,  -ez:  The  follow- 
ing chief  changes  in  the  use  of  this  word  (repre- 
senting various  Heb  words)  in  RV  to  be  noted  are: 
In  Dt  28  8,  RV  has  "barns"  ('asamlm);  in  1  Ch 
27  2"),  "treasures"  ('  oydrdlh')  ;  in  Neh  12  25,  for 
"thresholds"  has  "storehouses"  ('tisuppim),  so, 
for  "Asuppim"  in  1  Ch  26  lf>.17  ("house  of 
Asi.ippim,"  "toward  Asuppim")  has  "store-house"; 
in  Lk  12  24,  for  "storehouse"  has  "store-chamber" 
(tameion).  In  other  passages  AV  "storehouse" 
is  retained  (Gen  41  50;  2  Ch  32  2S,  mi?kenoth; 
Ps  33  7,  'dfurdth;  Jer  50  20,  ma'dbhuyim). 

STORIES,  std'riz:  For  AV  "stories"  (nuSdloth)  in 
Am  9  G,  RV  reads  "chambers"  (in  heavens)  ;  in  (Jen 
6  10  (ark);  Ezk  42  3.0  (temple),  the  word  is  sup- 
plied. RV  in  the  latter  verse  reads  in  the  text  "the 
third  story"  (m  as  in  AV).  In  1  K  6  5.10,  RV 
has  "stories"  (yd^la\  yu<;u"';  see  TEMPLE),  and  in 
Ezk  41  6  supplies  "stories." 


STORK,    stork    ( 
rendered    in    LXX: 
Dt    14   IS,    ireXeKdv, 


rpcn  ,  hd.ftdhdh;  variously 
Lev  11  19,  tpojSios,  crddit'ix; 
pclckdn;  Job  39  13,  d<ri6d, 


Stork. 

h(iai<ld  [transliteration  of  Heb] ;  Zee  6  9,  eiroxj/, 
epops;  Lat  Ciconia  alba} :  A  large  wading  bird  of 
the  family  Ardeidae,  related  to  crane,  ibis,  heron 
and  bittern.  The  stork  on  wing  is  a  bird  of  exquisite 
beauty.  The  primary,  secondary  and  a  few  of  the 
tertiary  wing  feathers  are  black,  the  remainder,  also 
the  head,  neck,  and  back  and  under  parts  white, 
the  bill  and  legs  red.  When  a  perching  white  bird 
suddenly  unfolds  these  wonderful  wings,  having 
at  times  a  sweep  of  7  ft.,  and  sails  away,  it  makes 


a  very  imposing  picture.  Zecliariah  in  a  vision  saw 
a  woman  having  the,  wings  of  a  stork;  Zee  5  9, 
"Then  lifted  1  up  mine  eyes,  and  saw,  and,  behold, 
there  came  forth  two  women,  and  the  wind  was  in 
their  wings;  now  they  had  wings  like  the  wings  of 
a  stork;  and  they  lifted  up  the  ephah  between 
earth  and  heaven."  These  birds  winter  in  Africa. 
In  their  spring  migration  many  pairs  pause  in  Pal, 
others  cross  the  Mediterranean  and  spread  over 
the  housetops,  ruins  and  suit  aide  building-places 
of  Europe  as  far  north  as  Holland  and  England. 
Always  and  everywhere  the  bird  has  been  more;  or 
less  protected  on  account  of  its  fidelity  to  a  chosen 
location,  its  fearlessness  of  man  and  the  tender  love 
between  mated  pairs  and  for  its  young. 

The  stork  first  appears  among  the  birds  of  abomi- 
nation, and  it  is  peculiar  that  the  crane  does  not,  for 
they  are  closely  related.  But  the  crane  eats  moles, 
mice,  lizards  and  smaller  animals  it  can  capture, 
also  frogs  and  fish.  To  this  same;  diet  the  stork 
adds  carrion  and  other  offensive  matter,  and  the 
laws  of  Moses,  as  a  rule,  are  formulated  with  good 
reason.  Yet  at  one  time,  storks  must  have  been 
eaten,  for  Pliny  quoted  Cornelius  Nepos,  who  died 
in  the  days  of  Augustus  Caesar,  as  saying  that  "in 
his  time  storks  were  holden  for  a  better  dish  at 
board  than  cranes."  Pliny  adds:  "Yet  see,  how 
in  our  age  now,  no  man  will  touch  a  stork  if  it  be 
set  before  him  on  the  board,  but  everyone  is  ready 
to  reach  into  the  crane  and  no  dish  is  more  in  re- 
quest." He  also  wrote  that  it  was  a  capit  al  crime  in 
Thessaly  to  kill  storks,  because  of  their  work  in 
slaying  serpents.  This  may  have  been  the  begin- 
ning of  the  present  laws  protecting  the  bird,  rein- 
forced by  the  steady  growth  of  respect  and  love 
for  its  tender,  gentle  disposition.  The  Ileb  word 
hnsidhah,  from  which  the  stork  took  its  name, 
means  "kindness." 

There  is  a  smaller  stork  having  a  black  neck 
arid  back,  that  homes  in  Pal,  but  only  in  small 
numbers  as  compared  with  the  white.  These  birds 
flock  and  live  in  forests  around  the  borders  of 
waste  and  desert  places,  and  build  in  trees.  The 
young  of  both  species  remain  a  long  time  in  the  nest 
and  are  tenderly  cared  for,  so  much  so  indeed  that 
from  their  performances  and  love  of  building  on 
housetops  arose  the  popular  tradit  ion  that  the  stork 
delivers  newly  born  children  to  homes.  The  birds 
first  appear  in  Lev  11  10  and  Dt  14  IS.  Jeremiah 
noticed  that  the  stork  was  migratory;  see  8  7:  "Yea, 
the  stork  in  the  heavens  knoweth  her  appointed 
times;  and  the  turtle-dove  and  the  swallow  and  the 
crane  observe  the  time  of  their  coming;  but  my 
people  know  not  the  law  of  Jeh."  The  Psalmist 
referred  to  their  nesting  in  the  cedars  of  Lebanon, 
for  in  Pal  these  birds  could  not  build  on  housetops, 
which  were  flat,  devoid  of  chimneys  and  much  used 
by  the  people  as  we  use  a  veranda  today;  see  Ps 
104  17: 

"Where  the  birds  make  thoir  nests: 
As  for  the  stork,  the  lir-treos  are  her  house." 

GENE  STHATTOX-POKTKH 
STORY,  std'ri.     See  COMMENTARY. 

STORY  TELLING.     See  GAMES,  I,  4. 

STORY  WRITER,  std'ri-rit-er:  In  the  sense  of 
chronicler  or  historian  occurs  in  1  Esd  2  17  (m 
"recorder")  and  2  25. 

STOUT,  stout,  STOUTNESS,  stout'nes:  In 
modern  Eng.  the  word  signifies  strength,  firmness, 
corpulence,  etc,  but  in  EV  (Ps  76  5,  Isa  10  12; 
46  12;  Dnl  7  20;  Mai  3  13,  with  "stoutness" 
in  Isa  9  9)  it  always  means  "bold"  or  "proud" 
and  invariably  in  a  bad  sense;  cf  the  Ger  stolz, 
with  which  "stout"  is  allied. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Straight 
Stranger 

STRAIGHT,  strut,  STRAIGHTWAY,  strat'wa: 
"Straight"  :»'"1  "strait"  are  two  entirely  different 
words  thai  have  no  connection  with  each  other  in 
Eng.,  the  former  being  derived  from  the  Anglo- 
Saxon,  while  the  latter  has  come  hack  from  the  Lat 
through  the  Romance.  At  some  point  still  farther 
back,  however,  the  two  words  may  have  had  some 
common  original  with  the  general  meaning  "to 
stretch."  But  in  straight  the  stretched  object  is  a 
cord  from  which  all  curvature  is  removed,  while  in 
strait  a  solid  is  thought  of,  which  is  drawn  out  and 
made  narrow,  used  figuratively  in  Job  20  22;  36 
1(5-  Mt7  13f;  Phill  23.  Before  Eng.  spelling  had 
reached  a  relatively  settled  stage  the  spelling  of  the 
two  words  was  interchanged  occasionally,  but  in 
even  Elizabethan  times  this  could  happen  only 
through  ignorance.  In  EV  the  forms  are  kept, 
distinct  with  great  care.  "Straight,"  then,  appears 
only  in  the  sense  "not  crooked,"  in  the  ()  I  most 
commonly  for  some  form  of  "HIT*  ,  yashnr,  "be 
smooth"  '(2  Ch  32  30,  etc).  In  the  Apoc  and  NT 
the  word  is  not  very  common,  being  used  for 
c306s  orthos  (Bar  6  27;  He  12  13);  eM«5s,  euthus 


»,    with     the    vbs. 
and    ev6vvw,  etithund 


(Jth  13  20;      Mk  1  3    and 

dvopffou,  (inortJwu  (Lk  13  13), 
(.In  1  23;  He  12  12  RVm),  "to  make  straight," 
and  cv6vdpofjitw,  cut!iii/lr/»n('o,  "to  make  a  straight 
course"  (Acts  16  11;  21  1).  For  straightway  in 
EV  overwhelmingly  the  most  common  word  is 
etfflrfs,  cullnis,  or  eiWus,  c  nth  cos.  AV  varies  the 
tr  of  this  advb.  by  using  either  "straight  way"  or 
"immediately"  without  distinction,  but  RV  (with 
a  very  few  exceptions,  e.g.,  Mt  24  29)  has  adhered 
to  "straightway."  The  other  occurrences  in  the 
Bible  (1  S  9  13;  28  20,  etc)  represent  no  special 
Word.  BTRTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

STRAIGHT  STREET,  strat  stret.  See  DAMAS- 
CUS. 

STRAIN,  stran  (SufXCtw,  diulizo,  "to  strain  off," 
"tofilter"):  Mt  23  24,  "Ye  blind  guides,  that  strain 
out  the  gnat,  and  swallow  the  camel!"  The  imagery 
is  that  of  a  drinking-vessel  full  of  liquid,  from  which 
tiny  impurities  are  carefully  removed  while  immense 
masses  of  other  impure  matter  (Lev  11  4)  are  over- 
looked (cf  Mt  7  3  f).  The  first,  ed  of  AV  read  the 
same  as  RV,  but  in  the  later  edd  a  misprint  con- 
verted "strain  out"  into  "strain  at,"  an  error  that 
has  never  been  corrected. 

STRAIT,  strfit,  STRAITEN,  strat  "n,  STRAITLY, 
strat  'li:  The  word  "strait"  and  its  compounds  are 
used  in  EV  in  the  literal  sense  of  "narrow"  (far, 
2  K  6  1;  Isa  49  20;  mu^ak,  Job  37  10;  'a^ul, 
Ezk  42  6)  and  in  the  figurative  sense  of  "strict" 
(shabha\  Ex  13  19;  sat/liar,  Josh  6  1;  furar, 
"to  be  distressed,"  2  S  24  141;  ydfar,  Job  20  22; 
)n<~<;<tr,  Lam  1  3).  In  Apoc  the  vb.  "straitened' 
occurs  in  Sus  ver  22.  In  the  NT  we  have  stcnos 
(Mt  7  13fj|,  RV  "narrow";  polus,  "much";  so 
RV  Mk  3  12;  5  43;  sunecho,  "to  urge,"  "hold 
together,"  Lk  12  50;  Phil  1  23).  It  occurs  in  its 
superlative  form  in  Acts  26  5,  "After  the  straitest 
[akribestatos,  "most  exact,"  "scrupulous"]  sect  of 
our  religion,"  i.e.  "the  most  precise  and  rigorous 
in  interpreting  the  Mosaic  Law,  and  in  observing 
the  more  minute  precepts  of  the  Law  and  of  tra- 
dition" (Thayer,  Lex.,  s.v.;  cf  Acts  22  3).  See 
also  STRAIGHT,  STRAIGHTWAY.  M.  O.  EVANS 

STRAKES,  straks:    An  older  form  for  "streaks' 
(so  ARV)  in  AV,  ERV  Gen  30  37  (piqlah,  "peeled 
spot")'  Lev  14  37  (sheka*d,ruroth,  "hollow  places") 
For    "strake,"    Tob  11  11;     AV  Acts  27  17,   see 
STRIKE 


2804 


STRANGE,  stranj,  FIRE   (rnt  TZJS  ,   'r.s/i  zarali, 
'alien  fire"):    These  words  are  mentioned  in  con- 
ice!  ion  with   the  fatal  sin  committed  by  the  two 
ildest  sons  of  Aaron,  Nadab  and  Abihu,  in  "offer- 
ng  si  range  fire  before  Jeh,"  on  the  occasion  of  the 
'ormal    consecration    of    the    Aaronitic    priesthood 
(Lev  10  1.2).     The    fact    is    mentioned    again    in 
Nu  3  4;     26  61.     The    greatest    calamity    of    all 
befell   them    in    that    they  were  cut    off   childless, 
which  for  every  true  Israelite  was  the  darkest  fate 
imaginable.     This    fact    is    mentioned    twice    (Nu 
3  4   and   1  Ch  24  2).     The   power  which   cut  off 
the  lives  of  Nadab  and  Abihu  (Lev  10  1.2)  is  the 
same  as  that  which  shortly  before;  had  consumed 
the  consecratory  burnt  offering  (Lev  9  24).     \\hat 
was   its   true   character,    whether,    as   Rosenmuller 
and  Dachsel  surmise,  it  was  a  lightning  stroke  or 
some  other  supernatural  agency,  is  not  worth  while 
debating.     It  is  enough  for  us  to  know  that  "there 
came  forth  fire  from  before  Jeh  and  devoured  them." 
Yet  this  latter  word  is  not  to  be  taken  literally,  since; 
they  were  carried  out  for  burial  in  their  own  linen 
garments  (Lev  10  -r>).     They  were  therefore  merely 
killed,  not  incinerated.     What  was  their  sin?     The 
words  "strange  fire"  have  been  explained  either  as 
common  fire,  which  they  placed  in  their  censers,  or 
as   unholy   incense,   which   they   put   thereon    (Ex 
39  3S).     But  the  text  plainly  points  to  the  former. 
The  sacred  fire,  once  kindled  on  the  altar,  was  never 
to    be    permitted    to    go    out    (Lev  6   12  f).      When 
later  the  temple  was  dedicated  Jeh  again  lighted 
the  fire  on  the  altar  from  heaven,  as  in  the  case  of 
the   dedication    of   the   tabernacle.     As,    however, 
the  injunction  to  take  fire   for  the  censers  ol   the 
incense   offering  only  from   the   coals   of   the  altar 
is    not   found    before    (Lev  16  12),    Rosenmuller's 
observation  would  seem  to  be  very  much   to  the 
point:    "Quamquam  enim  in  iis  quae  praecedunt, 
non   extat   hoc   interdict  urn,    tamen   est,   verisinule 
Mosem  vet  asse  Aaroni  el  filiis  eius  ne  ignem  alienum 
altiiri  imponerent."     ("For  although  his  injunction 
does   not    hold   in   regard   to   the   preceding   cases, 
yet  it  is  very  probable  that    Moses  had  forbidden 
Aaron  and  his  sons  to  place  strange  fire  upon  the 
altar.")     A  verbal  injunction  of  Moses  must   have 
preceded  the  fatal  mistake.     But  the  text  leads  us 
to  believe  there  was  more  than  a  mistake  here. 
Some  find  here  the  sin  of  drunkenness,  from  the  en- 
joined abstinence  from  any  intoxicat  ing  drink  before 
the  priests  thereafter  minister  before  Jeh  (Lev  10 
9).     The  likeliest  explanation  is  that,  inflated  with 
pride  on  account  of  the  exaltation  of  the  Aaronitic 
family  above  all  Israel,  they  broke  unbidden   into 
the  ritual  of  the  consecration  of  the  tabernacle  and 
priesthood,  eager  to  take  part  in  the  ceremony,  and 
in  their  haste  bringing  strange  fire  into  the  taber- 
nacle, and  thus  met  their  death  (see  Oehler,  Ol 

ThcoL,  126,  2S2).  The  fire  burning  on  the  altar 
came  from  God,  it  might  never  go  out,  since  it 
represented  "the  unbroken  course  of  adoration  of. 
Jeli,  carried  on  in  sacrifice."  And  this  course  was 
interrupted  by  Nadab  and  Abihu.  The  fire  on  the 
altar  was  a  symbol  of  holiness,  and  they  sought  to 
overlay  it  with  unholiness.  And  thus  it  became 
to  them  a  consuming  fire,  because  they  approached 
the  Holy  One  in  a  profane  spirit  (cf  Isa  33  14). 

HKN-RY  E.  DOSKER 
STRANGE  GODS.     See  GODS,  STRANGE. 

STRANGE  WIFE:  "Strange"  as  contrasted  with 
"an  Israelite."  Such  wives  are  spoken  of  in  AV 
Ezr  10  2.11  (ERV  "strange  women,"  ARV 
"foreign  women";  see  STRANGER  AND  SOJOUKNER; 
in  the  i|  1  Esd  8  68—9  37,  AV  uses  "strange 
wives"  and  "strange  women"  indifferently,  and  RV 
here  follows  AV)  as  "wives  of  the  people  of  the 
land,"  in  taking  whom  the  men  of  Israel  are  said 


2865 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Straight 
Stranger 


to  have   "trespassed  against  their  God."     Accord- 
ingly such  wives  were  "put  away." 

STRANGE  WOMAN:  The  1 1  el)  "IT,  zar,  tr'1 
"stranger,"  meant  primarily  one  "who  turns  aside," 
i.e.  to  visit  another  country;  then  a  "sojourner," 
"stranger."  The  "strange  woman"  of  Prov  2  It) 
is  a  technical  term  for  "harlot";  cf  ,)gs  11  1.2, 
where  "son  of  a  strange  [RV  "anotlier")  woman" 
(ver  2,  'atur)  is  parallel  to  "the  son  of  a  harlot" 
(ver  1).  See  STHANOK  WIFE. 

STRANGER,  stranj'er,  AND  SOJOURNER  (IN 
THE  OT) : 

I.      THK   <jir 

1.  Legal  provisions 

(1)  Principles 

(2)  Rules 

2.  Relation  to  Sacrifice-  and  Ritual 
',i.   Historical  Circumstances 

II.     THE  toxliiihlt 

III.  THK    noklirt    OK   bi'n    m'khar 

1.  Marriage 

2.  Exclusion  of  Some  Races  from  the  Assembly 

IV.  THE   zar 

Four  different  Heb  words  must  he  considered 
separately:  (1)  "13 ,  ger,  ARV  "sojourner"  or 
"stranger";  (2)  DTlJin ,  tdxhdbh,  ARV  "sojourner"; 
(3)  "Ha?,  nokhri,  ^3  12,  ban  nekhar,  ARV  "for- 
eigner"; (4)  "IT,  zar,  ARV  "stranger." 

/.  The  ger. — This  word  with  its  kindred  vh.  is 
applied  with  slightly  varying  meanings  to  anyone 
who  resides  in  a  country  or  a  town  of  which  he 
is  not  a  full  native  land-owning  citizen;  e.g.,  the 
word  is  used  of  the  patriarchs  in  Pal,  the  Israelites 
in  Egypt,  the  Levites  dwelling  among  the  Israelites 
(Dt  18  G;  Jgs  17  7,  etc),  the  Ephraimitein  Gibeah 
(Jgs  19  10).  It  is  also  particularly  used  of  free 
aliens  residing  among  the  Israelites,  and  it  is  with 
the  position  of  such  that  this  article  deals.  This 
position  is  absolutely  unparalleled  in  early  legal 
systems  (A.  II.  Post,  Grundriss  der  ethnologischen 
Jurisprudenz,  I,  448,  n.  3),  which  are  usually  far 
from  favorable  to  strangers. 

(1)  Principles. — The  dominant  principles  of  the 
legislation  are  most  succinctly  given  in  two  pas- 
sages:   lie   "loveth  the   ger  in  giving 

1.  Legal  him  food  and  raiment"  (Dt  10  IS); 
Provisions  "And  if  a  ger  sojourn  with  thee  [variant 
"you"]  in  your  land,  ye  shall  not  do 
him  wrong.  The  ger  that  sojourneth  with  you  shall 
be  unto  you  as  the  home-born  among  you,  and  thou 
shalt  love  him  as  thyself;  for  ye  were  gerim  in  the 
land  of  Egypt"  (Lev  19  33  f).  _This  treatment  of 
the  stranger  is  based  partly  on  historic  recollection, 
partly  on  the  duty  of  the  Israelite  to  his  God.  Be- 
cause the  ger  would  bo  at  a  natural  disadvantage 
through  his  alienage,  ho  becomes  one  of  the  favorites 
of  a  legislation  that  gives  special  protection  to  the 
weak  and  helpless. 

(2)  Rules. — In  nationality  the  freeman  followed 
his  father,  so  that  the  son  of  a  ger  and  an  Israeli!  ess 
was  himself   a  ger   (Lev  24  10-22).     Special   can- 
was  to  be  taken  to  do  him  no  judicial  wrong  (Dt 
1  16;    24  17;    27  19).     In  what  may  roughly  be 
called  criminal  law  it  was  enacted  that  the  same 
rules  should  apply  to  gcrlm  as  to  natives  (Lev  18 
26,   which   is  due  to   the  conception  that   certain 
abominations  defile  a  land;   20  2,  where  the  motive 
is  also  religious;    2410-22;    see  S£L,  84  ff;    Nu 
36  15).     A  free  Israelite  who  became  his  slave  was 
subject  to  redemption  by  a  relative  at  any  time  on 
payment   of   the   fair   price    (Lev  25  47  ff).     This 
passage  and  Dt  28  43  contemplate  the  possibility  of 
a  stranger's  becoming  wealthy,  but  by  far  the  greater 
number  of  the  legal  provisions  regard  him  as  prob- 
ably  poor.     Thus   provision   is   made   for   him   to 
participate  in  tithes  (Dt  14  29;    26  12),  gleanings 


of  various  sorts  and  forgotten  sheaves  (Lev  19 
10;  23  22;  Dt  24  19.20.21),  and  poor  hired  serv- 
ants were  not  to  l>e  oppressed  (Dt  24  11). 

Nearly  all  the  main  holy  davs  apply  to  the  g<~r. 

Hewastorost  on  the  Sabbath  (K\20  10;  23  12,  etc), 

to  rejoice  on   Weeks  and  Tabernacles 

2.  Relation    (Dt   16),  to  observe  the  Day  of  Atone- 
to  Sacrifice    mont   (Lev  16  29),  to  have  no  leaven 
and  Ritual     on  the   Festival  of   I'nleavened   Bread 

(Ex  12  19).  But  he  could  not  keep 
the  Passover  unless  lie  underwent  circumcision 
(12  48).  I  le  could  not  eat  blood  at  any  rat  e  during 
the  wilderness  period  (Lev  17  10-12),  and  for  that 
period,  but  not  thereafter,  ho  was  probihited  from 
eating  that  which  died  of  itself  (Lev  17  15;  Dt. 
14  21)  under  pain  of  being  unclean  until  the  oven. 
He  could  offer  sacrifices  (Lev  17  8  f;  22  IS;  Nu 
16  14  f),  and  was  subject  to  the  same  rules  as  a 
native  for  unwitting  sins  (15  22-31),  and  for  puri- 
fication for  uncleanness  by  reason  of  contact  with  a 
dead  body  (Nu  19  10-13). 

The  historical  circumstances  were  such  as  to 
render  the  position  of  the  resident  alien  important 

from  the  first.     A  "mixed  multitude" 

3.  Histori-     went  up  wit  li  the  Israelites  from  Egypt, 
cal  Circum-  and  after  the  conquest  we  find  Israel- 
stances  ites  and  the  races  of  Pal  living  side 

by  side  throughout  the  country.  Wo 
repeatedly  read  of  resident  aliens  in  the  historical 
books,  e.g.  Uriah  the  Hittite.  According  to  2  Ch 
2  17  f  (Ileb  16  f)  there  was  a  very  large  number  of 
such  in  the  days  of  Solomon,  but  the  figure  may  be 
excessive.  Those  seem  to  have  been  the  remnant 
of  the  conquered  tribes  (1  K  9  20  f).  Ezokiol 
in  his  vision  assigned  to  genm  landed  inheritance 
among  the  Israelites  (47  22  f).  Hospitality  to  the 
ger  was  of  course  a  religious  duty  and  the  host  would 
go  to  any  lengths  to  protect  his  guest  (Gen  19; 
Jgs  19  24). 

//.  The  toshabh. — Of  the  toshabh  we  know  very 
little.  It  is  possible  that  the  word  is  practically 
synonymous  with  ger,  but  perhaps  it  is  used  of 
less  permanent  sojourning.  Thus  in  Lev  22  10  it 
appears  to  cover  anybody  residing  with  a  priest. 
A  toshabh  could  not  eat  the  Passover  or  the  "holy" 
things  of  a  priest  (Ex  12  45;  Lev  22  10).  His 
children  could  be  purchased  as  perpetual  slaves, 
and  the  law  of  the  Jubilee  did  not  apply  to  them 
as  to  Israelites  (Lev  25  45).  lie  is  expressly  men- 
tioned in  the  law  of  homicide  (Nu  35  15),  but 
otherwise  we  have  no  information  as  to  his  legal 
position.  Probably  it  was  similar  to  that  of  the 
ger. 

III.  The  nokhri. — The  nokhri  or  ben  nekhar  was 
a  foreigner.  The  word  is  far  wider  than  those 
considered  above.  It  covers  everything  of  alien  or 
foreign  character  regardless  of  the  place  of  resi- 
dence. By  circumcision  a  foreign  slave  could  enter 
into  the  covenant  with  Abraham.  Foreigners  wore 
of  course  excluded  from  the  Passover  (Ex  12  43), 
but  could  offer  sacrifices  to  Israel's  God  at  the 
religious  capital  (Lev  22  25).  The  Israelite  could 
exact  interest  of  them  (Dt  23  20)  and  the  payment 
of  debts  in  cases  where  an  Israeli! ish  debtor  was 
protected  by  the  release  of  Dt  15  (ver  3).  Moses 
forbade  the  appointment  of  a  foreigner  as  a  ruler 
(Dt  17  15,  in  a  law  which  according  to  MT  relates 
to  a  "king,"  but  in  the  preferable  text  of  LXX 
to  a  ruler  generally).  Later  the  worship  of  God 
by  foreigners  from  a  distance  was  contemplated 
and  encouraged  (1  K  8  41-43;  Isa  2  2f;  66  3.6 f; 
etc),  while  the  case  of  Naaman  shows  that  a  for- 
eigner might  worship  Him  abroad  (2  K  5  17). 
A  resident  foreigner  was  of  course  a  ger.  The  dis- 
tinction between  those  three  words  is  perhaps  best 
soon  in  Ex  12  43. 45. 48  f.  In  the  first  of  these 
verses  we  have  ben  nekhar,  used  to  cover  "alien" 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Stranger 
Stumbling-block 

generally;  in  the  last  the  <jcr  is  contemplated  as 
likely  to  undergo  a  complete  naturalization;  while 
in  ver  45  the  toxhahlt  is  regarded  as  certain  to  be 
outside  the  religious  society. 

In   the  earlier   period   marriages  with  foreigners 
are     common,     though     disliked     (e.g.     <  ien  24  3; 
27  46  ff;     Nu  12  1;     Jgs  14  3,    etc). 
Marriage  The  Law  provides  for  some1  unions  of 
'    this  kind(Dt  21  10  ff;    ef  Nu  31  18), 
but  later  Judaism  became  more  stringent.      Moses 
minimi  the  high   priest   to  marry  a  virgin  of  his 
own   people   (Lev  21  14);    Ezekiel   limited   all  de- 
scendants of  Zadok  to  wives  of  the  house  ot   Israel 
(44  22);    Ezra  and  Nehemiah  carried  on  a  vigorous 
polemic' against  the  intermarriage  of  any  Jew  with 
foreign  women  (Ezr  10;    Neh  13  23  31). 

Dt  further  takes  up  a  hostile  attitude  to  Ammon- 
ites and  Moabites,  excluding  them  from  the  assembly 
of  the  Lord  even  to  the  tenth  genera- 
2.  Exclu-       t ion.  while  the  children  of  the  third  gen- 
sion  from       eration    of    Edomites   and    Egyptians 
Assembly      could    enter    it     (23  3-8    [Heb  4-9]). 
From  1    K  9  20.21.24;    1  Ch  22  2  we 
learn  of  the  existence  of  foreign  quarters  in  Israel. 

IV.  The  zar.  —The  remaining  word  zar  means 
"stranger"  and  takes  its  coloring  from  the  context. 
It,  mav  mean  "stranger  in  blood,"  e.g.  non-Aaronite 
(Nu  16  40  [Ileb  17  5]),  or  non-Levite  (e.g.  1  51), 
or  a  non-member  of  some  other  defined  family 
(Dt  25  5).  In  opposition  to  priest  it  means  "lay" 
(Lev  22  10-13),  and  when  the  contrast  is  with 
holv,  it  denotes  "profane"  (Ex  30  9).  See  FOR- 
EIGNER; (IENTILK;  PHOSELYTE;  CHERETHITES; 
PELETIIITES;  MARRIAGE;  COMMERCE. 

HAROLD  M.   \\  IEXER 

STRANGER  AND  SOJOURNER  (IN  THE  APOC 
AND  NT):  The  technical  meaning  attaching  to 
the  Ileb  terms  is  not,  present  in  the  (ir  words  tr'1 
"stranger"  and  "sojourner,"  and  the  distinctions 
made  by  EV  are  partly  only  to  give  uniformity 
in  the  tr.  For  "stranger"  the  usual  C.r  word  is 
£<?i/os,  xeitos,  meaning  primarily  "guest"  and  so 
appearing  in  the  combination  "hatred  toward 
guests"  in  Wisd  19  13  (/juffo^evia,  misoxenia). 
Xcnos  is  the  most  common  word  for  "stranger" 
in  the  NT  (Mt  25  35,  etc),  but  it  seems  not  to  be 
used  by  itself  with  this  force  in  the  Apoc.  Almost, 
equally  common  in  the  NT  is  dXXorptos,  allotrios, 
"belonging  to  another"  (Mt,  17  25.26;  Jn  10  5 
[?n'.s]),and  this  is  the  usual  word  in  the  Apoc  (Sir  8 
18;  1  Mace  1  38,  etc),  but  for  some  inexplicable 
reason  RV  occasionally  translates  by  "alien" 
(contrast,  e.g.  1  Mace  i  38;  2  7).  Cf  the  corre- 
sponding vb.  d7ra\\orpt6w,  apollotrido  (Eph  2  12; 
4  18;  Col  1  21).  With  the  definite  meaning  of 
"foreigner"  are  a\\oyevris,  allogents,  "of  another 
nation,"  RV  "stranger"  (1  Esd  8  S3;  1  Mace  3 
45  [AV  "alien"];  Lk  17  18  [RVm  "alien"]),  and 
dXX60uXos,  aUophnlos,  "of  another  tribe,"  RV 
"stranger"  (Bar  65;  1  Mace  4  12,  etc)  or  "of 
another  nation"  (Acts  10  28).  For  "to  sojourn 
the  commonest  form  is  Trapoi/c^w,  paroikco,  "to 
dwell  beside,"  RV  always  "to  sojourn"  (Jth  5  7; 
Sir  41  19;  Lk  24  18  [AV  "to  be  a  stranger  ] 
He  11  9)  The  corresponding  noun  for  "sojourner' 
is  TrdpoiKos,  pdmiko*  (Sir  29  26  f  [AV  "stranger"]; 
Acts  7  6.26;  Eph  2  19;  1  Pet  2  11),  with 
Trapot/a'a,  ixiroikia,  "sojourning"  (Wisd  19  10;  Sir 

16  8;     Acts  13  17    [AV   "dwelling   as   strangers"]; 

1  Pet  1  17).     In  addition,  &rt5i?/u<*w,  e.pidcmeo, 

be  among  people,"  is  trd  "to  sojourn"  in  Acts  2  10; 

17  21   and  its  compound  TrapeTr/Sijjoos,  parepidemos, 
as  "sojourner"  in  1  Pet  1   1   (in  He  11   13;    1  Pet 

2  11    "pilgrim").  BUUTON  SCOTT  EASTON 


2806 


STRANGLED,  stran'g'ld  (£:n ,  hanak; 
pniktus,   from   vb.   TrvLyu>,  pnigo,    "to   choke,"   "to 


smother,"  "to  strangle"  [cf  choking  of  swine  in 
the  lake,  Mk  5  13;  the  seed  are  choked  by  the 
thorns,  Mt,  13  7;  the  servant-  takes  his  fellow- 
servant  hi/  the  throat,  AV  Mt  18  28]):  As  adj. 
"strangled."  vised  of  animals  deprived  of  life  by 
choking,  and  so  without  the  shedding  of  the  blood. 
Flesh  thus  killed  was  forbidden  as  food  among  the 
Hebrews,  because  it  contained  the  blood  (Lev  17 
12).  Even  Jewish  Christians  in  the  Jems  council 
thought  it  best  to  forbid  things  strangled  to  be  eaten 
by  gentile  converts,  so  as  not  to  give  offence  to 
Jewish  sentiment,  and  doubtless  also  to  prevent 
participation  in  heathen  sacrificial  feasts  (Acts  15 
20;  21  25).  EDWARD  BAGHY  POLLARD 

STRANGLING,  stran'g'ling.     See  PUNISHMENTS 

STRAW,  stro,  STUBBLE,  stnb"l:  The  cognates 
of  Heb  l^P ,  h-hlit'it,  "straw,"  and  SJJ2 ,  hash, 
stubble,"  have  been  retained  in  the  modern  Arab, 
terms  tibn  and  kaxhxh.  Tihn  applies  to  the  straw 
which  has  been  cut,  up  into  short  pieces  and  more 
or  less  split  by  the  threshing  operations.  It  is  com- 
monly used  throughout  the  East  as  a  coarse  fodder 
or  roughage  for  domestic  herbivorous  animals  (cf 
Gen  24  25.32;  Jgs  19  19;  1  K  4  28;  Isa  11  7; 
65  25).  Hay  and  similar  cured  crops  are  practically 
unknown.  Barley,  peas  and  other  grain,  when  fed 
to  animals,  are  mixed  with  the  tihn.  The  animals 
will  frequently  reject  the  tibn  unless  there  is  gram 
in  it.  They  "often  nose  about  the  tibn  until  the 
grain  settles  to  the  bottom  so  that  they  can  eat  the 
latter  without  the  straw.  Straw  left  in  the  manger 
is  t  hrown  out  in  the  stall  to  form  part,  of  the  bedding 
(cf  Isa  25  10). 

Tibn  is  mixed  with  clay  for  plastering  walls  or 
for  making  sun-dried  bricks.  It  is  also  mixed  with 
lime  and  sand  for  plastering.  The  children  of 
Israel  had  their  task  of  brickrnakmg  made  more 
arduous  by  being  required  to  gather  stubble  and 
prepare  it  by  chopping  it  up  instead  of  being 
given  the  already  prepared  straw  of  the  threshing- 
floors  (Ex  5  7  IT). 

Kaxhsti  (lit.  "dried  up")  refers  to  the  stalks  left 
standing  in  the  wheat  fields  or  to  any  dned-up 
stalks  or  stems  such  as  are  gathered  for  burning. 
Camels  and  other  flocks  sometimes  supplement  their 
regular  meals  by  grazing  on  the  stubble,  otherwise 
it  has  no  use.  In  the  Bible  stubble  is  used  to  typify 
worthless  inflammable  material  (Ex  15  7;  Job  13 
25;  41  28.29;  Ps  83  13;  Isa  5  24,  etc;  1  Cor  3 
12,  Ka\d[j.-r),  kiilf'une). 

inr,^  ,  mathbcn,  is  trd  "straw"  in  Isa  25  10. 

JAMES  A.  PATCH 

STRAWED,  strod:  Past  part,  of  "to  strew," 
"scatter  "  or  "spread  about."  as  powder  (of  the  golden 
calf  Ex'32  20,  RV  "strewed");  branches  (Mt  21  8, 
RV  "spread");  seed  (Mt  25  24.26,  RV"  "scatter  ). 

STREAM,  strem:  (1)  *n3 ,  nahal,  EV  "stream," 
as-  "Behold,  he  smote  the  rock,  so  that  waters 
gushed  out,  and  streams  overflowed"  (Ps  78  20) 
Often  "valley,"  as  "the  valley  [AV  "river  ]  of 
the  Arnon"  (Dt  2  24);  or  "brook,"  as  "the  brook 
[\V  "river"]  of  Egypt"  (Josh  15  4;  see  BROOK  OF 
EGYPT)'  or  "river,"  as  "the  river  Kishon  (Jgs  4 
7).  (2)  "^n:  ,  nahar  (Aram,  "in: ,  n'hur  [Dnl  7  10]; 

cf  Arab.  ^ •  nahr'  "river"):  "He  bindcth  the 
streams,"  AV  "floods"  (Job  28  11);  "the  River" 
(Euphrates)  (Ex  23  31,  etc);  "Abanah  and  Phar- 
par,  the  rivers  of  Damascus"  (2  K  5  12).  (3)  1?$  , 
pelegh,  V  ^B  ,  pdlagh,  "to  split,"  "to  divide,"  hence 
"cleft  "  "channel":  "a  tree  planted  by  the  streams 
[AV  "rivers"]  of  water"  (Ps  1  3);  "There  is  a  river, 


2867 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Stranger 
Stumbling-block 


the  streams  whereof  make  glad  the  city  of  God" 
(Ps  46  4);  but:  "The  king's  heart  is  ....  as  the 
watercourses"  (AV  "rivers  of  water")  (Prov  21  1  ). 

(4)  p^ES  ,  'dphlk,   V  p?^  ,   'uphak,  "to  be  strong," 
hence   "channel,"    "valley,"   as  holding,    confining 
(HDIi):    "the  streams   in   the  South"    (Ps  126  4); 
elsewhere  "brook,"  as  "the  brooks  [AV  "rivers"]  of 
Judah"  (Joel  3   IS);   or  "channel,"  as  "the  channel 
of  brooks"    (Job  6   15);    or  "watercourses"   (RVm 
"ravines,"     AV     "rivers")      (Ezk  6  3,      etc).      (5) 
"ITS"1,  y'Ttr,  from  Egyp  'iotr,  'in'r,  esp.  of  the  Nile, 
as:    "Seven  other  kine  came  up  after  them  out    of 
the  river"  (Gen  41  3);    RV  "stream,"  AV  "river" 
(Ex  7   19;      8  5);      RV    "stream,"     AV    "brook"; 
"The  streams  [m  "'canals"]  of  Egypt,  shall  be  dimin- 
ished and  dried  up"    (Isa  19  6).      (6)   5IP  ,  yablial, 
V  "— ?  ,    yab/idl,    "to    bear    along":      "brooks    and. 

streams  of  waters"  (Isa  30  25);  cf  25^ ,  ytlbhal, 
"river,"  "that  spreadeth  out  its  roots  by  the  river" 
(Jer  17  S);  bl'X ,  Tibfial,  "the  river  I'lai"  (Did 
8  2).  (7)  '"T:  ,  nazal,  "to  flow,"  "to  trickle":  "He- 
brought  streams  also  out  of  the  rock"  (Ps  78  16). 

(5)  "iE?X ,   'cxhcdh,  "the  slope  of  the  valleys,"  AV 
"the  stream  of  the  brooks"  (Nu  21  15);  cf  P"~ll"X  , 
'dshedhoth,  "the  slopes"   (Josh  10  40);   "the  slopes 
[m   "springs"]  of  Pisgah"   (Dt   3  17).     (9)  TTOTO.^, 
polainos,  "The  stream  brake  against  that  house"  (Lk 
6  4s. 49);   elsewhere  "river,"  as  "the  river  Jordan" 
(Mk  1  5).     (10)  K\Aduv,  kludon,  "stream,"  AV  Wisd 
19  7  (RV  "surge").     See  BROOK;   CANAL;   CHAN- 
NEL; RIVER;  VALE;  WATERCOURSE 


STREET,  stret,     See  CITY. 


ALFRED  ELY  DAY 


STRENGTH,  strength,  OF  ISRAEL:  For  "the 
strength  of  the  children  of  Israel,"  applied  to  Jeh 
in  AV  Joel  3  16,  RV  reads  "a  stronghold  to  the 
children  of  Israel." 

STRIKE,  strlk:  The  vbs.  "to  strike"  and  "to 
stroke"  (latter  not  in  EV)  have  the  same  derivation, 
and  originally  "strike"  was  the  intrans,  "stroke" 
the  trans  form.  "Strike,"  however,  became  used 
in  both  senses  (always  trans  in  EV),  while  "to 
stroke"  took  on  the  meaning  "to  rub  gently." 
But  in  AV  this  last  force  still  belonged  sometimes 
to  "strike"  and  is  so  found  in  2  K  5  11,  "strike 
his  hand  over  the  place"  (RV  "wave"),  and  per- 
haps Ex  12  7.22;  Tob  11  11.  Otherwise  AV's 
uses  of  the  simple  "strike"  are  modern,  including 
"strike  sail"  (Acts  27  17;  here  and  in  Tob  11  11 
with  an  archaic  preterite  "strake,"  elsewhere 
"struck").  RV's  "They  lowered  the  gear"  is  a 
more  precise  tr,  not  a  modernizing  of  AV's  Eng. 
The  combination  "to  strike  through,"  however,  is 
not  modern  Eng.,  and  was  used  by  AV  as  meaning 
either  "to  pierce"  (Jgs  5  26;  Job  20  24;  Prov 
7  23;  Lam  4  9)  or,  as  an  intensive,  "to  strike 
violently,"  "to  crush"  (Ps^llO  5).  RV  has  at- 
tempted to  distinguish  only  in  Hab  3  14,  "pierce," 
m  "smite."  "Striking  hands"  is  a  common  cus- 
tom at  the  conclusion  of  a  bargain  (Ad  Est  14  S"), 
but  in  Job  17  3;  Prov  61;  17  18;  22  26;  RVm 
11  15,  the  ceremony  is  used  technically  for  an  agree- 
ment to  be  surety  for  another.  Striking  (RVm 
"firing")  stones  to  produce  a  fire  is  mentioned 
(2  Mace  10  3). 

The  past  part,  of  "strike"  is  stricken  (modern 
Eng.  "struck")  (cf  Prov  23  35;  Jer  5  3;  Lam  4 
9).  So  Isa  1  5,  "Why  will  ye  be  still  stricken?" 
is  equivalent  to  "Why  should  ye  receive  anymore 
blows?"  (cf  16  7;  53"  4.8  m).  But  in  the  phrase 
"stricken  in  age"  (Gen  18  11,  etc)  "strike"  has 
an  older  meaning,  "advance." 


Striker  is  found  in  1  Tim  3  3;  Tit  1  7  as  a 
literal  tr  of  TTXT^TT/S,  /iltkt(~n.  A  hot-tempered  man, 
prone  to  physical  outbursts,  is  meant.  A  stroke  is 
simply  a  "blow,"  but  in  Dt  17  X;  21  5,  "stroke" 
is  used  technically  for  "assault." 

BURTOV  SCOTT  EASTOX 

STRINGED,  stringd,  INSTRUMENTS.  See 
Music. 

STRIPES,  strips.     See  PUXISIIMEXTS. 
STRIVE,  strlv.     Sec  GAMES,  II,  2. 

STRONGHOLD,  strong'hdld.  See  FORTIFIED 
CITIES,  IV,  1. 

STUBBLE,  stub"l  (TTp_ ,  Av/.s//  [Ex  5  12,  etc]; 
KaX.d|j.T),  kaldnid  [Wisd  3  7;  1  Cor  3  12]):  These 
Ileb  and  Gr  forms  are  used  of  the  stalks  of  wheat, 
etc,  left  knee-high  in  the  field' by  the  reapers. 
"ni-1 ,  tcbhc-n  (Job  21  18),  is  a  mixture  of  chopped 
straw  and  chaff  produced  in  threshing,  which  is 
winnowed  out  by  the  fan  (cf  Jer  23  28;  Isa  5  24; 
Mt  3  12).  When  Irbhen  was  withheld  from  them 
the  Israelites  had  to  utilize  kash  for  the  manufacture 
of  their  bricks  (Ex  5  12). 

STUDS,  studz  (P1™jX  ,  n'kwldoth,  "engraving," 
"stud"):  Ornaments  consisting  of  small  silver 
points  which  it  was  proposed  (Cant  111)  to  affix 
to  the  new  golden  "plaits"  (RV)  or  "borders"  (AV). 
and  which  were  to  replace  the  strung  beads  of  the 
bride's  necklace. 

STUFF,  stuf  (~>*2  ,  k'-ll;  o-i«vos,  xkcitox):  "Mate- 
rial" for  any  purpose  (Ezk  12  3.4.7);  or  "supplies" 
in  a  more  general  sense  (Ex  36  7.  Ileb  m'lakhdh; 
cf  AV,  ERV  1  S  10  22;  25  13;  30  24  [ARV 
substitutes  "baggage"]);  frequently,  "household 
possessions"  (Gen  31  37;  45  20;  F>x  22  7;  Josh 
7  11;  Neh  13  8;  Jth  16  19;  AV  15  11  [xkeiuis- 
mata,  RV  "furniture"];  AV  Lk  17  31,  where 
RV  reads  "goods").  "Mingled  stuff"  is  the  tr  of 
shcfatnez  in  RV  instead  of  "garment  of  divers  sorts" 
AV  (Dt  22  11). 

STUMBLING-BLOCK,  stum'bling-blok,  STUM- 
BLING-STONE (biOrip,  nrikhsliol,  nbirps  ,  makh- 
sheldh;  irpoo-KO|i|Aa,  proskomma,  o-Ka.v8aX.ov,  skdnda- 
IOP):  These  are  the  most  important  of  the  varied 
renderings  of  either  of  two  cognate  Ileb  words,  or 
of  two  different  Gr  words.  Sometimes  the  Gr  word 
for  "stone"  (Xi#os,  lithos)  accompanies  the  principal 
word.  There  is  no  import  ant  difference  in  the  mean- 
ing of  the  words  or  of  their  renderings.  RV  generally 
substitutes  "stumbling"  for  "offence"  of  AV. 

The  literal  meaning  of  the  Ileb  words — an  ob- 
ject which  causes  one  to  stumble  or  fall — appears 
in  such  passages  as  Lev  19  14:  "Thou  shalt  not 
....  put  a  stumblingblock  [mikhshol]  before  the 
blind"  (cf  Jer  6  21).  But  the  expression  is  ordi- 
narily figurative,  referring  to  that  which  causes 
material  ruin  or  spiritual  downfall,  which  were 
closely  connected  in  OT  thought  (Ps  119  165;  Ezk 
21  15).  The  things  that  lead  astray  are  silver  and 
gold  (Ezk  7  19);  idols  (Ezk  14  3;  Zeph  1  3,  etc). 

One  of  the  NT  words,  a-Kdi>Sa\ov,  skdndalon, 
lit.  means  the  stick  of  a  trap  to  which  the  bait  is 
attached,  and  which  when  touched  springs  the  trap. 
Figuratively  either  word  refers  to  a  thing  or  a  per- 
son that  leads  one  to  fall  into  error,  into  sin  or  into 
destruction:  the  cross  of  Christ  (Gal  5  11;  Horn  11 
9);  another's  liberty  (1  Cor  8  9);  Peter  in  Mt  16 
23;  Christ,  whose  life  and  character  were  so  dif- 
ferent from  Jewish  expectation  (Rom  9  33).  See 
also  OFFENCE.  GEORGE  RICE  HOVEY 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Sua 
Suffering 

SUA,  su'a  (SovdL,  Soud;  AV  Sud) :  Name  of  a 
family  of  temple-servants  who  went  up  from  exile 
with  Zerubbabel  (1  Esd  5  29)  =  "Sia"  of  Neh  7  47; 
"Siaha"  of  Ezr  2  44. 

SUAH,  sfi'a  (JTC  ,  ,s (<"/)):  Son  of  Zophah,  of  the 
tril>e  of  Asher  ("l  Ch  7  3(5). 

SUBAI,  su'ba-I,  su'bi  (2x>pae£,  Si/hmi):  Name 
of  a  family  of  temple-servants  who  returned  with 
Zerubbabel  (1  Esd  5  30)  =  "Shamlai"  of  Ezr  2  46; 

"Salmai"  of  Xeh  7  48. 

SUB-APOSTOLIC  LITERATURE.  See  LITEKA- 
TUHI:,  SUB-APOSTOLIC. 

SUBAS,    sii'bas    (Soupds,    Soubds;     AY    Suba) : 

Name  of  a  family  of  "the  sons  of  the  servants  of 
Solomon"  returning  with  Zerubbabel  (1  Esd  5  34), 
wanting  in  the  lists  of  Ezr  2  57;  Xeh  7  59. 

SUBORN,  sub-orn'  (v-rro|3a.X.Xa>,  hupnballo  [Acts 
611;  only  here  in  the  XT]):  The  word  means  to 
introduce  by  collusion,  to  put  one  person  in  the 
place  of  another,  to  employ  anyone  in  a  secret 
manner  and  instruct  such  a  one  to  act  for  and  as 
though  he  were  another  person. 

SUBSTANCE,  sub'stans  (1T13"] ,  rkhush;  v-n-6- 
o-Taeris,  hit /><'>xi<ixix) :  Lit.  that  which  stands  under, 
is  in  the  Bible  used  chiefly  of  material  goods  and 
possessions.  In  the  OT  it  is  the  tr  of  numerous 
Heb  words,  of  which  rrkhush,  "that  which  is  gathered 
together,"  is  one  of  the  earliest  and  most  significant 
(Gen  12  5;  13  <>;  15  14;  1  Ch  27  31;  Ezr  8  21, 
etc).  In  the  XT  "substance"  appears  in  a  few- 
passages  as  the  tr  of  OIIH'HI,  "being,"  "subsist ence" 
(Lk  15  13),  hiijHtrj-ix,  ''goods,"  "property"  (He 
10  34),  hn/>drch(»ita,  "things  at  hand"  (Lk  8  3). 
Special  interest  attaches  to  He  11  1,  AY  "Now  faith 
is  the  substance  of  things  hoped  for,"  etc,  where  the 
word  is  used  in  its  proper  etymological  sense  as 
the  tr  of  hiip<>Kt(i*ii.s,  "that  which  stands  under." 
RY  changes  to  "assurance,"  m  "the  giving  substance 
to,"  which  last  seems  best  to  bring  out  the  idea  of 
faith  as  that  which  makes  the  things  hoped  for 
real  to  the  soul.  The  same  (Ir  word  hupoxloxix 
is  rendered  "substance"  in  He  1  3  RY,  instead  of 
AY  "person."  with  reference;  to  Christ,  "the  very 
image  [in  "impress"]  of  his  substance,"  i.e.  of  (lod's 
invisible  essence  or  being,  the  manifestation  of  (Jod 
Himself.  W.  L.  WALKKH 

SUBTIL,  sub'til,  SUBTLE,  sut"l,  SUBTLETY, 
sut"l-ti,  SUBTILTY  (E^n ,  hakfium,  '": ,  nakhnl, 
rrOT\*/2  ,mirmdh;  86\os,  tlolos):  These  words  arc 
used  (1)  in  a  good  sense:  2  S  13  3,  hakham,  "wise," 
"Jonadab  was  a  very  subtil  [AHY  "subtle"]  man" 
(discreet);  Prov  1  4,  \)rmdfi,  "prudence,"  "to  give 
subtilty  to  the  simple,"  ARY  and  ERVm  "pru- 
dence"; Wisd  7  22,  leptds,  "thin,"  said  of  the  spirit 
in  Wisdom  (very  fine  or  refined) ;  8  8,  strophe,  "wind- 
ing," "subtilties  of  speeches";  Ecclus  39  2,  "subtil 
parables,"  RV  "the  subtilties  of  parables";  (2)  in  a 
bad  sense:  Gen  3  1,  ''arum,  "crafty,"  "Now  the 
serpent  was  more  subtil  than  any  beast  of  the  field," 
ARV  "subtle." 

Gen  27  '55,  mirm<~ili,  "deceit,"  "fraud."  "Thy 
brother  came  with  subtilty,"  RV  "with  guile";  Ps  105 
25,  nakhal,  "to  deceive,"  AV  "deal  subtilly,"  ARV 
"subtly";  Prov  7  10,  nafor,  "to  watch,"  "guard,"  "to 
be  hidden  or  subtle  of  heart,"  HV  "wily,"  m  "'close,' 


28(>8 


Heb  'guarded'";  2  K  10  li»,  'ok'bhd/t,  "deceit"  or 
"treachery"  (here  only);  Jth  5  11,  kntasophlzd, ."to 
use  subtlety";  Ecclus  19  25,  panourgta,  "cunning," 
"unscrupulousness,"  "There  is  au  exquisite  subtilty,  and 
the  same  is  unjust";  2  Cor  11  :}.  "The  serpent  beguiled 
Eve  through  his  subtilty,"  RV  "in  his  craftiness"; 


Mt  26  4,  dolox  "deceit,"  "that  they  might  take  Jesus 
by  subtlety,  and  kill  him";  Acts  13  10,  "O  full  of  all 
subtilty  and  all  mischief,"  RV  "  all  guile  and  all  villany." 

ERV  has  "subtilty"  for  "wisdom"  (Prov  8  5.12), 
m  and  ARV,  "prudence";  for  "with  subtilty" 
(ERV  Mk  14  1,  AV  "by  craft")  ARV  has  "with 
subtlety."  W.  L.  WALKKK 

SUBURBS,  sub'urbz.     See  CITY. 

SUBVERT,  sub-vurt'  (rT17 ,  'dwalh;  avarpt'-iuo, 
nndln'.po):  Occurs  5  t:  (1)  in  the  sense  of  over- 
turning, etc,  as  the  tr  of  *dwath,  "to  make  bent  or 
crooked"  (Lam  3  30),  "to  subvert  a  man  in  his 
cause";  of  anaskcndzo,  primarily,  "to  pack  up 
baggage";  then,  "to  ravage,"  etc  (Acts  15  24, 
"subverting  your  souls");  of  anatrcpd,  "to  turn 
upside  down,"  "to  overturn"  (Tit  1  11.  "who 
subvert  whole  houses,"  RV  "overthrow");  of 
ktilaxtrophc.,  "overthrow,"  "destruction"  (2  Tim  2 
14,  "to  the  subverting  of  them  that  hoar");  (2)  in 
the  sense  of  perverting:  ckNtn'phd,  "to  turn  or  twist 
out,"  "to  turn  about"  (Tit  3  11,  "such  is  sub- 
verted," RV  "perverted").  For  "overthrown  me" 
(Job  19  0)  RV  has  "subverted  me  [in  my  cause]," 
m  "overthrown  me";  for  "pervcrteth"  (Prov  19 
3),  "subverted!. "  W.  L.  WALK.KK 

SUCATHITES,  su'kath-Its  (Z'T^.t) ,  xukhdltnm; 
B,  Su>x.a9i€t|i,  tiorhdthie'nn,  A,  ScjKa0i«ip.,  ,S'o/,v/- 
thie'nn;  AY  Suchathites) :  These  are  named  only 
once  (1  Ch  2  55),  a  family  of  scribes  living  at 
Jabez. 

SUCCEED,  siik-siid',  SUCCESS,  suk-ses'  (Tin? , 
7/anv.s7i,  bZ'Tp ,  sdkhnl;  €vr|n«pia,  cue  men  a):  "To 
succeed"  means.  (1)  and  originally,  "to  follow  after"; 
(2)  mostly  in  modern  Eng.,  "to  prosper";  in  AY, 
with  one  exception,  the  word  has  a  qualifying  adjec- 
tive.  (1)  In  the  first  sense  it  is  the  tr  of  yaranh, 
"to  seize"  or  "to  take  possession"  (Dt  2  12; 
12  29,  ARV  "dispossesses!, "  ERV  "possessest");  of 
ku/n,  "to  rise  up"  (Dt  25  (i,  "shall  succeed  in  the 
name  of  his  brother") ;  of  diadechomai  (Ecclus  48  8, 
"prophets  to  succeed  after  him").  (2)_In  the  sense 
of  ])rospering,  "success"  is  the  tr  of  sakhal,  "to  be 
wis(>,"  "to  prosper"  (Josh  1  8,  "Thou  shalt  have 
good  success,"  AVm  "do  wisely,"  RVm  "deal 
wisely";  cf  AYmJob  22  2;  Ps  111  10;  Prov  3  4); 
"good  success"  occurs  in  Tob  7  12,  euoddsei  td  kdl- 
liKla;  \Yisd  13  11),  cpituchia;  Ecclus  20  9,  euodia, 
RV  "prosperity,"  "There  is  a  prosperity  that  a  man 
tindeth  in  misfortunes;  and  there  is  a  gain  that 
turneth  to  loss";  38  13,  citodia  (so  X  C — thisword  = 
"sweet  savor,"  "fragrance";  cf  Phil  4  18;  Eph  5  2; 
2  Cor  2  15).  See  further  EUODIA.  RV  "the  issue 
for  good";  1  Mace  4  55,  cuodoo;  8  23,  Av/W.s,  etc. 
"Success,"  simply  (as  "prosperity,"  euemeria), 
2  Mace  10  28,  "a  pledge  of  success  and  victory"; 
"successor"  occurs  (Ecclus  46  1,  "Joshua  .... 
was  the  successor  [diddochos\  of  Moses";  2  Mace  9 
23;  14  26).  W.  L.  WALKER 

SUCCOR,  suk'er,  SUCCORER,  suk'er-er  (ITS  , 
'dzar;  $oT\6i<a,  boethco,  irpoo-ToiTis,  prostdtis) :  Is  the 
tr  of  'dzar,  "to  gird"  (2  S  8  5,  etc);  of  bocthed, 
"to  come  in  aid  of"  (2  Cor  6  2,  "In  a  day 
of  salvation  did  I  succor  thee";  He  2  18,  "He  is 
able  to  succor  them  that  are  tempted");  ofprostatis, 
"one  standing  before"  (Rom  16  2,  ARV  "helper  of 
many");  of  ant'ilepsis  (Ecelus  51  7,  AV  "1  looked 
for  the  succour  of  men,  but-  there  was  none");  of 
phugadeuttrion  (1  Mace  1  53,  "flee  for  succor,"  RV 
"place  of  refuge");  of  sozo  (2  44,  "for  succor,"  RV 
"for safety");  of  skcpc  (2  Mace  5  9,  RV  "shelter"); 
"succors"  occurs  (Wisd  17  12,  AV  bocihema,  "for 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Sua 
Suffering 


four  is  nothing  else  but  a  betraying  [RV  ''surrender"] 
of  the  succours  which  reason  oifereth");  "succoreth" 
(1  Mace  12  15,  boethed,  "help  from  heaven  that 
succourcth  us,"  RV  "to  help  us").  RV  has  "succor" 
for  "help"  (I  Ch  18  5);  "()  thou  my  succor,"  for 
"O  my  strength"  (Ps  22  19).  W.  L.  WALKER 


SUCCOTH,  suk'oth,  suk'dth  (rfDP  ,  snkkoth, 
"booths";  2KT|vai,  Hlccnai,  2oK\4i9,  Sokchdth,  etc): 
After  parting  with  Esau,  Jacob  journeyed  to  Suc- 
coth,  a  name  which  he  gave  to  the  place  from  the 
"booths"  which  he  erected  to  shelter  his  cattle 
(den  33  17).  It  was  in  the  territory  of  (lad,  and 
is  mentioned  with  Beth-nimrah  (Josh  13  27).  In 
his  pursuit  of  Zeba  and  Zalmunnah,  did  con  seems 
to  have  retraced  the  path  followed  by  Jacob,  passing 
Succoth  before  Penuel  (Jgs  8  off).  Their  churlish- 
ness on  that  occasion  brought  dire  punishment 
upon  the  men  of  Succoth.  Gideon  on  his  return 
"taught  them"  with  thorns  and  briers  (ver  10). 
In  the  soil  of  the  valley  between  Succoth  and 
Zarethan,  which  was  suitable  for  the  purpose, 
the  brass  castings  of  the  furniture  for  Solomon's 
Temple  were  made  (1  K  7  4(i;  2  Ch  4  17). 
Jerome  (on  den  33  17)  says  that  in  his  day  it  was 
a  city  beyond  Jordan  in  the  district  of  Scythopolis. 
From  the  above  data  it  is  clear  that  Succoth  lay  on 
the  E.  of  the  Jordan  and  X.  of  the  Jabbok.  From 
Ps  60  6;  108  7,  we  may  infer  that  it  was  close 
to  the  Jordan  valley,  part  of  which  was  apparently 
known  by  its  name.  Neubauer  (Geog.  du  Talm,  248) 
gives  the  Talmudic  name  as  Tar^ala.  Merrill  (East 
af  the  Jordan,  386)  and  others  compare  this  with 
Tell  Dcir  ''Alia,  the  name  of  an  artificial  mound 
about  a  mile  N.  of  the  Jabbok,  on  the  edge  of  the 
valley,  fully  4  miles  E.  of  the  Jordan.  There  is  a 
place  called  Sdkilt  W.  of  the  Jordan,  about  10  miles 
S.  of  Hainan.  This  has  been  proposed  by  some;  but 
it  is  evident  that  Succoth  lay  E.  of  the  river.  No 
trace  of  the  name  has  been  found  here. 

W.  EWINC, 

SUCCOTH  (nisp,  ?ukkolh;  SOKX^O,  Kokchoth 
[Ex  12  37;  13  20;  Nu  33  »]):  The  first  station  of 
the  Hebrews  on  leaving  Rameses  (see  EXODUS). 
The  word  means  "booths."  The  distance  from 
ETHAM  (q.v.)  suggests  that  the  site  may  have  lain 
in  the  lower  part  of  Wady  Tumcilut,  but  the  exact 
position  is  unknown.  This  region  seems  possibly 
to  have  been  called  T-K-u  by  the  Egyptians  (see 
PITHOM).  Brugsch  and  other  scholars  suppose  this 
term  to  have  been  changed  to  Succoth  by  the  OT 
writer,  but  this  is  very  doubtful,  Succoth  being 
a  common  Heb  word,  while  T-K-u  is  Egyp.  The 
Ilcb  s  does  not  appear  ever  to  be  rendered  by  t 
in  Egyp.  The  capital  of  the  Scthroitic  nome  was 
called  T-K-t  (Pierret,  Vocab.  hieroglyph.,  697), 
and  this  word  means  "bread."  If  the  region  of 
T-K-u  was  near  this  town,  it  would  seem  to 
have  lain  on  the  shore  road  from  Edom  to  Zoan, 
in  which  case  it  could  not  be  the  Succoth  of  the 

Exodus.  C.    II.    CONDER 

SUCCOTH-BENOTH,  suk'oth,  -oth-be'noth, 
-noth  (rn:?  rii^Q  ,  sukkoth  b'-noth;  'Poxx«>0pai- 

V6i0e£,  Rhochchothbaineithei,  A  [better], 
1.  The  2oKxw0pevie«i,  Sokchothbenithei):  The 

Meaning  name  of  an  idol  made  by  the  Babylo- 
according  nians  sent  into  exile  at  Samaria  by  an 
to  the  Assyr  king  (Shalmaneser),  and  men- 

Hebrew  tioned  among  the  (Unties  of  the  various 

nationalities  there  assembled  (2  K  17 
30).  In  Heb,  Succoth-benoth  means  "booths  of 
daughters,"  and  has  been  explained  as  the  chambers 
wherein  the  Babylonians  placed  women  for  prosti- 
tution; or  booths  or  tabernacles  in  which  images 
of  certain  goddesses  were  worshipped. 


The  parallelism,  however,  requires  a  deity,  like 

the  Nergal  of  the  Cutheans,   the   Ashirna  of  the 

Hamathitcs,  etc,  and  not  a  chamber 

2.  Sir  H.        or  shrine.     This  consideration  caused 
Rawlinson's  Sir  II.  Rawlinson  to  suggest  an  identi- 
Identifica-     fi cat  ion  of  Succot  h-benot  h  wit  h  the  Bab 
tion  of  the     Zer-panilum    (  =  Zer-bamtum),    whose 
Name  name  was  probably  pronounced  Z<~r- 

pnnlth,  the  spouse  of  Merodach  (the 
god  of  Babylon),  as  the  "seed-creatress."  The 
difference  in  the  first  component,  z<~r,  was  regarded 
as  due  to  its  possible  Hamitic  (  =  Sumerian)  equiva- 
lent, or  to  a  Sem  mistranslation,  both  of  which 
explanations  arc  now  known  to  be  untenable. 

As  the  people  who  made  Succoth-benoth  were 

Babylonians,  we  should  expect  here  either  a  name 

of  Merodach,  the  god  of  Babylon,  or 

3.  Is  Sue-      one  of  the  deities  identified  with  him. 
coth  the          At  present  the  only  suggestion  which 
Babylonian    can  be  made   is   that   Benoth   is   for 
Sakut?  PI   15,    ban    walk,    i.e.     ban'(i)    mdti, 

"creator  of  the  land."  Both  the 
Scm  and  the  bilingual  creation-stories  speak  of 
Merodach  as  the  creator  of  the  world,  with  its 
products,  and  the  great  cities  of  Babylonia;  and 
"father  Enlil,"  who  bore  the  title  "lord  of  the 
world,"  bestowed  the  same  upon  Merodach  at  the 
creation,  thus  identifying  Merodach  with  himself. 
Now  there  is  a  group  which  may  be  read  either 
Dikut,  "the  Judge,"  or  Hukn(,  "the  Counsellor," 
and  if  we  can  read  Succoth-benoth  as  Sakut(h)ban' 
wdt(h),  "the  Counsellor,  creator  of  the  land,"  a 
satisfactory  explanation  of  this  puzzling  name  will 
be  furnished.  The  terminal  i  of  the  Bab  has  been 
preserved  in  the  «,  ei,  of  the  dr.  The  adoption  of 
such  a  descriptive  name  of  Enlil-Mcrodach  would 
form  a  compromise  between  abandoning  their  old 
objects  of  worship  and  accepting  "the  god  of  the 
land"  (2  K  17  26).  T.  d.  PINCHES 

SUCHATHITES,  su'kath-Its.     See  SUCATHITES. 
SUD,  sud:  AV  =  RVSuA  (q.v.). 

SUDIAS,  su'di-as  (SouSias,  ,SVmr/m.s) :  In  1  Esd 
5  23,  a  Levitical  family  that  returned  with  Zerub- 
babel,  called  in  Ezr  2  40  "Hodaviah  "  and  in  Neh 
7  43  "Hodevah"  (q.v.). 

SUFFERING,  suf'er-ing:  A  great  variety  of 
Heb  and  dr  expressions,  too  large  to  be  here  enu- 
merated, have  been  tr'1  by  "suffering"  and  other 
forms  derived,  from  the  same  vb.  The  most 
obvious  meanings  of  the  word  are  the  following: 
(1)  The  commonest  meaning  perhaps  in  the  EV 
is  "to  permit,"  "to  allow,"  "to  give  leave  to": 
"Moses  suffered  to  write  a  bill  of  divorcement,  and 
to  put  her  away"  (Mk  10  4).  (2)  "To  experience," 
"to  go  through,"  "to  endure":  "I  have  suffered 
many  things  this  day  in  a  dream  because  of  him" 
(Mt  27  19).  A  woman  "had  suffered  many  things 
of  many  physicians"  (Mk  5  26).  Other  common 
phrases  are  "to  suffer  affliction"  (1  Thess  3  4; 
He  11  25,  RV  "share  ill-treatment"),  "to  suffer 
hardship"  (2  Tim  2  9),  "to  surfer  adversity" 
(He  13  3  AV,  RV  "to  be  ill-treated"),  "to  suffer 
dishonor"  (AV  "shame,"  Acts  6  41),  "to  surfer 
violence"  (Mt  11  12),  "to  suffer  wrong"  (Acts 
7  24),  "to  suffer  terror"  (Ps  88  15),  "to  suffer 
shipwreck"  (2  Cor  11  25),  "to  suffer  hunger" 
(Ps  34  10;  Prov  19  15),  "to  suffer  thirst"  (Job 
24  11).  (3)  "To  put  up  with,"  "to  tolerate": 
AV,  "For  ye  suffer  fools  gladly  [RV  "ye  bear  with 
the  foolish  gladly"],  seeing  ye  yourselves  are  wise" 
(2  Cor  11  19).  (4)  "To  undergo  punishment": 
"Think  ye  that  these  Galileans  were  sinners  above 
all  the  dalileans,  because  they  have  suffered  these 


Suffocation 
Sure,  Surely 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2870 


things?"  (Lk  13  2).  (5)  "To  sustain  loss":  "If 
any  man's  work  shall  lie  burned,  he  shall  suffer 
loss"  (1  Cor  3  15;  also  Phil  3  S).  (0)  "To  suffer 
death."  Here  the  clearest  references  are  to  the 
suffering  or  passion  of  Christ,  which  indeed  includes 

1  lie  enduring  of  unl  old  hardships  and  afflict  ion,  till  of 
which  culminate  in  His  vicarious  death  for  man  (Mt 
16  21;    Mk  8  31;   9  12;    Lk  9  22;    17  2f>;    22  15; 
24  26.40;   Acts  3  18;   17  3;  26  2)5;   1  Pet  3  IS). 

Suffering  belongs  to  the  discipline  of  all  Christ's 
followers  (Horn  8  17;  2  Cor  1  7;  Clal  3  4;  Phil 
3  10;  1  Thcss  22;  2  Thess  1  5;  2  Tim  2  12; 
3  12;  Jtis  5  10;  1  Pet  2  20  f;  3  14.17;  4  1.13.1(5; 
6  10).  Such  suffering  is  called  a  suffering  for  God's 
or  Christ's  sake  (Jer  15  15;  Acts  9  16;  Phil  1  29; 

2  Tim  1   12).     This  fellowship  in  suffering  unites 
us  with  the  saints  of  (Jod  in  all  times  (Jus  6   10), 
and  is  indeed  a  fellowship  with  the  Lord  Himself 
(Phil  3   10),   who   uses   this  discipline  to  mold   us 
more  and  more  according  to  His  character. 

II.    L.    E.    LUERING 

SUFFOCATION,  suf-5-ka'shun.  See  PUNISH- 
MENTS. 

SUICIDE,  su'i-sid.     See  CRIMES. 

SUKKIIM,  suk'i-im  (B^SO  ,  sukkujlm):  Named 
in  2  Ch  12  3  as  a  tribe  that  took  part  with  Libyans 
and  Cretans  in  the  invasion  of  Judaea  by  Shishak. 
The  identification  is  uncertain. 

SULPHUR,  sul'fur.     See  BRIMSTONE. 

SUMMER,  sum'er  (V.j?  ,  Jv/.y/f;  Aram.  TTp.  , 
kai/it  [Dnl  2  35],  from  "pp  ,  l?uf,  tTp  ,  kilt,  "to 
cut  off,"  "to  pluck  or  gather  fruit,"  hence  the 
time  of  fruit,  summer  [2  S  16  1.2;  Jer  40  10.12]; 
e^pos,  /Arms  [Alt  24  32;  Lk  21  30]):  The  Heb 
vb.,  mentioned  above,  occurs  in  Isa  18  f>,  "to  sum- 
mer," used  of  the  ravenous  birds  feeding  upon  car- 
cases of  the  slain.  The  term  "summer  parlor"  in 
Jgs  3  20  (cf  ver  24)  is  lit.  "upper  room,"  and  is  so 
rendered  in  R.V.  The  summer  was  the  dry  season 
extending  from  April  to  October  when  usually  no 
rain  falls.  Hence  the  "drought  of  summer"  (Ps 
32  4).  See  SEASONS.  II.  PORTER 


SUMMER-HOUSE  Cpp.n  P.^S  ,  bfth  h 
Am  3  15  notes  it  as  part  of  the  judgment  on 
Israel  that  Jeh  would  smite  "the  winter-house 
with  the  summer-house."  It  belonged  to  the  lux- 
ury of  the  period  that  kings  and  wealthy  persons 
had  separate  residences  for  the  cold  and  hot  seasons. 
This  is  the  only  mention  of  "the  summer-house," 
but  Eglon's  "cool  upper  room"  (Jgs  3  20,  AV 
and  ERV  "summer  parlour,"  not  in  this  case  a 
separate  building)  may  be  compared.  See  WINTER- 

HOUSE. 

SUN.     See  ASTRONOMY,  I,  2. 

SUN  (Figurative):  Poetical  conceptions  for  the 
sun  are  frequently  found  in  the  Scriptures,  though 
the  strictly  figurative  expressions  are  not  common. 
Undoubtedly  the  Jewish  festivals,  religious  as  well 
as  agricultural,  were  determined  by  the  sun's 
movements,  and  this  fact,  together  with  the  poetical 
nature  of  the  Hebrews  and  their  lack  of  scientific 
knowledge,  had  a  tendency  to  multiply  spiritual 
and  metaphorical  expressions  concerning  the 
"greater  light"  of  the  heavens.  Some  of  these 
poetical  conceptions  are  very  beautiful,  such  as 
the  sun  having  a  habitation  (Hub  3  11),  a  taber- 
nacle (Ps  19  4  f  )  set  for  him  by  Jeh,  out  of  which 
he  comes  as  a  bridegroom  from  his  chamber,  rejoic- 
ing as  a  strong  man  to  run  a  race.  The  sun  is  also 


given  as  the  emblem  of  constancy  (Ps  72  5.17),  of 
beauty  (Cant  6  10),  of  the  law  of  God  (Ps  19  7), 
of  the  purity  of  heavenly  beings  (Rev  1  16;  12  1), 
and  of  the  presence  and  person  of  God  (Ps  84  11). 
The  ancient  world  given  to  personifying  the  sun  did 
not  refrain  from  sun-worship,  and  even  the  Hebrew 
in  the  time  of  the  kings  came  perilously  near  this 
idolatry  (2  K  23  11).  See  SUN-WORSHIP. 

C.  E.  SCHENK 
SUN,   CHARIOTS  OF  THE.     See  HORSES  OF 

THE    SUN. 


SUN  GATE.     See  EAST  (  IATE. 


SUN,  HORSES  OF  THE. 

SUN. 


See  HORSES  OF  THE 


SUN-IMAGES.     Sec  IMAGES. 
SUNDAY,  sun'da.     See  LORD'S  DAY. 

SUNRISING,  sun'm-ing:  A  frequent  designa- 
tion in  the  OT  for  t lie  East  (Nu  21  11;  Dt  4  41.47; 
Josh  1  15,  etc).  In  Rev  7  2,  II V  has  "sunrising" 
for  AV  "east." 

SUN,  SMITING,  smlt'ing,  BY:  Exposure  of  the 
uncovered  head  to  the  heat  of  the  sun  is  likely  to 
produce  either  of  two  conditions;  the  commoner  is 
heat  exhaustion  with  faint  ness,  the  rarer  is  heat- 
stroke with  fever  and  paralysis  of  the  heat-regulat- 
ing apparatus  of  the  nervous  system.  Tins  con- 
dition is  described  as  siriasis.  The  two  fatal  in- 
stances recorded  were  probably  of  the  latter  kind. 
One,  the  case  of  the  Shunammite's  son  (2  K  4  1!)), 
was  apparently  very  acute,  like  some  of  the  cases 
described  by  Manson  and  Sambon.  Of  the  other 
case,  that  of  Manasseh,  Judith's  husband,  we  have 
no  particulars  (Jth  8  3),  except  that  it  was  like- 
wise brought  on  by  exposure  in  the  harvest  field, 
and  occurred  at  the  time  of  barley  harvest,  that 
is,  early  in  May.  Jonah's  attack  was  one  of  heat 
syncope,  as  he  fainted  from  the  heat  (Jon  4  S). 
According  both  to  psalmist  (Ps  121  6)  and  to  prophet 
(Isa  49  10),  the  people  of  God  are  protected  from 
the  stroke  of  the  sun  as  well  as  from  that  of  the 
moon.  The  latter  was  supposed  to  cause  lunacy 
(hence  the  name),  and  epilepsy,  so  in  Mt  4  24 
the  word  rendered  "lunatic"  (AV)  for  "epileptic" 
(RV)  is  scleniazomenous,  lit.  "moon  struck."  See 
MOON.  ALEX.  MACALISTER 

SUNSTROKE,  sun'strok.     See  SUN,  SMITING  BY. 

SUN-WORSHIP,  sun'wur-ship:  The  splendor 
of  the  sun  makes  it  a  natural  object  of  adoration, 
once  the  purer  idea  of  the  one  true  God  (Rom  1  20. 
21)  is  parted  with,  and  in  most  ancient  nations  the 
worship  of  the  sun  was  an  outstanding  feature.  It 
is  found  in  Bab  and  Assyr  (Samas;  special  seats 
of  sun-worship  were  Sippara  and  Larsa) ;  in  Egypt 
it  is  a  leading  feature  of  the  religion  (Ra,  and,  under 
special  phases,  Horus,  Turn,  At  en;  a  special  seat 
of  sun-worship  was  Heliopolis,  the  OT  On,  called 
in  Jer  43  13  Beth-shemesh,  "house  of  the  sun"). 
Other  cities  bore  the  same  name:  Beth-shemesh 
(Josh  15  10=Ir-shemesh;  19  41,  in  Judah;  Josh 
19  22,  in  Issachar;  19  38,  in  Naphtali;  see  BETH- 
SHEMESH).  Allusions  to,  and  warnings  against, 
sun-worship  are  frequent  in  the  OT,  as  in  Lev  26 
30;  2  Ch  14  5;  34  4.7;  Isa  17  8;  27  9;  Ezk  6 
4.6,  in  which  passages  for  AV  "images,"  "idols," 
RV  has  "sun-images"  (q.v.);  Job  31  26.27  and 
numerous  passages  show  that,  this  form  of  idolatry 
latterly  penetrated  deeply  into  Judah — even  into 
its  temple-worship  (2  K  23  5.11,  "horses  .... 
given  to  the  sun"  [see  under  HORSES  OF  THE  SUN, 


2S71 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Suffocation 
Sure,  Surely 


"Chariots  of  the  Sun"];  and  Ezk  8  10).  Josiah's 
reformation  look  account  of  these  abuses  (2  K  23 
5.11  i'f;  2  Ch  34  4.7),  and  Ezekiel  strenuously  de- 
nounced them  (8  16  fT).  JAMKS  (>RR 

SUP,  SUPPER,  sup'er.     See  MKALS. 

SUPERFLUOUS,  su-pur'flo7>-us,  SUPERFLUITY, 

su-per-floo'i-t  i  ("^  ,  ,s«/-(/';  irtpio-cros,  /KT/.SW.S-  [2  Cor 
9  1|,  TT€  pier  ere  ia,  pcrixsciti)'.  According  to  the  Leviti- 
cal  Law,  "a  blind  man,  or  a  lame,  or  he  that  hath  a 
flat  nose,  or  anything  superfluous"  could  not  fulfil 
priestly  functions  (Lev  21  IS;  22  2:5).  According 
to  Dillmann  (Baentsch,  BDtt)  the  word  should  be 
rendered  "a  limb  too  long,"  but  Ewald  (following 
the  LXX)  suggests  "having  cropped  ears."  The 
only  instance  of  superfluity  occurs  in  Jas  1  21,  AV 
"superfluity  of  naughtiness";  according  to  Mayor 
"overflowing  ebullition  of  malice"  (RV  "overflowing 
of  wickedness,"  in  "malice");  but  the  (!r  word  is 
used  in  other  connections,  e.g.  of  "grace"  (Horn  5 
17);  "joy"  (2  Cor  8  2).  T.  LKWIS 

SUPERSCRIPTION,  su-per-skrip'shun  (t-iri- 
•ypacjj^,  c/»'(/r<t]>h?}:  (1)  The  legend  on  a  coin  desig- 
nating the  person  in  whose  honor  or  bv  whose 
authority  it  is  issued  (Mt  22  20;  Mk  12  1(5; 
Lk  20  24).  (2)  The  accusation  on  the  cross  of 
Jesus  (Mk  15  2(5;  Lk  23  3X).  According  to  Horn 
custom  an  inscription  bearing  the  charge  or  ground 
of  a  criminal's  condemnation  was  fixed  to  the  cross 
on  which  he  was  crucified.  The  use  of  such  an 
inscription  at  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus  is  mentioned 
by  all  four  evangelists.  The  fullest  description  is 
that  of  Mark,  "the  superscription  of  his  accusa- 
tion" (T?  lTTiypa<f)r)  T??S  airias  dvrov,  he  epigmphf; 
tf-x  (tilias  aittoti)  (15  20).  Matthew  calls  it  more 
briefly  "his  accusation"  (TIJV  airlav  CLVTOV,  ten  aitian 
autou)  (27  3<S),  while  Luke  styles  it  merely  "a 
superscription"  (epigraphe)  (23  38).  In  the  Fourth 
Ciospel  it  is  called  a  "title"  (rir\ov,  tillon)  (Jn  19 
19).  The  text  of  the  superscription  is  given  by  the 
four  evangelists  in  varying  terms  and  with  various 
degrees  of  fulness.  RUSSKLL  BKNJAMIN  MILLER 

SUPERSTITION,  su-per-stish'un.  SUPERSTI- 
TIOUS, SU-per-Stish/US  (8eicri.Scu(J.ov(a,  deixia<ti- 
nion'ia,  "fearing  demons"):  The  Bib.  use  of  these 
words  is  limited  to  that  of  the  former  in  Acts  25 
19  AV,  and  of  the  latter  in  Acts  17  22.  In  the 
former  reference,  Festus  speaks  of  the  Jews'  "super- 
stition" (RV  "religion"),  thus  artfully  dodging  an 
avowal  of  his  own  convictions  "respecting  the  Heb 
faith."  In  Acts  17  22  AV  Paul  tactfully  refers  to 
the  Athenians  as  being  "too  superstitious"  (RV 
"too  religious"),  thus  using  the  term  correctly  from 
both  their  and  his  point  of  view.  They  were  truly 
too  "religious"  \vith  their  superstitions. 

LEONARD  W.  DOOLAN 

SUPH,  soof  (EHC ,  silph;  -n-Xtio-iov  rf\<s  €px>0pds 
[0a\acrcrT)s],  pleslon  its  cruthrds  [thaldsses]',  AV  Red 
Sea):  As  the  verse  stands,  the  place  where  Moses 
addressed  the  children  of  Israel  is  indicated  as 
"beyond  the  Jordan  in  the  wilderness,  in  the  Arabah 
over  against  Suph"  (Dt  1  1).  AV,  following  LXX, 
takes  the  name  as  a  contraction  of  yam  $uph  (see 
RED  SEA).  The  abbreviation  is  not  found  else- 
where. The  name  of  the  sea  was  not  derived  from 
that  of  a  city;  so  we  need  not  look  in  that  direct  ion. 
Knobel  suggested  Nakh  es-8afa,  a  pass  about  25 
miles  W.S.W.  of  the  Dead  Sea.  But  it  is  "unsuit- 
ably situated;  nor  does  the  name  agree  phonetically 
(for  (jO  agrees  with  £  ,  not  with  0  )"  (Driver, 
"Dt,"  ICC,  4).  No  identification  is  possible. 

W.    E\VING 


SUPHAH,  s<7o'fa  (HD^O  ,  .s/7/;//«//,  for  HE*  S3  3rr  , 
irdfichh  be§uphah;  LXX  reads  TTJV  Zcuu>(3  t^Xo-ytcre, 
t$n  Zoob  cphloginc;  AV  Rea  Sea):  Suphah  is  the 
region  in  which  Vaheb  is  situated  (Nil  21  14). 
It  is  probably  identical  with  Suph  of  I  )t  1  1. 
Tristram  (Land  of  Monh,  50  f)  suggested  identifica- 
tion with  (Ihur  e§-Sdfiyeh,  a  small  oasis  E.  of  the 
mudflats  of  E$-Sebkhah,  S.  of  the  Dead  Sea;  but 
"the  sibilants  do  not  correspond,  and  Siljh/ch.  is  a 
specifically  Aral),  term  (Wet/stein  in  Delitzsch,  den*, 
.r)Sti,  n.  2)  which  does  not  seem  to  be  a  likely  explana- 
tion of  Suphah"  (dray,  "Nu,"  ICC,  2x5  f  i.  This, 
and  other  questions  of  identification,  must  wait 
for  solution  until  a  more  thorough  exploration  of 
the  whole  district  has  been  accomplished. 

\V.  EWIN-U 

SUPPER,   sup'er.     See   MKAI.S. 

SUPPER,  LORD'S.     Sec-  LORD'S  STPPKU. 

SUPPLY,  su-pli':     Phil  4  10  for  w\r,p6w,   plerno; 

1  Cor  16  17;    Phil   2  30  for  a.va.Tr\T]pi)u ,  (inaplerod; 

2  Cor  9  12  (AV);  11  9  for  irpoaavaTrX-ripou,  proaaua- 
pleroo.     All  three  vbs.  mean  "to  fill,"  the  3d  con- 
taining the   additional  connotation    "fill   up    to  a 
certain  point."     Eph  4  10;   Phil  1  10  for  the  noun 
^Trixoprjyia,  epichoregia,  lit.  "an  additional  supply." 
But  no  special  force  of   "additional"  seems  to  be 
contained  in  the  passages.     In  2  Cor  9   \()a:  Gal 

3  ;">;    Col  2  0;    2  Pet    1  5.11,   we  have  firixoptiyfa, 
cpichoregcd,  "to  furnish  besides,"  i.e.  fully  supply; 
in   2  Cor  9   106;    1  Pet  4   11    the   simple    rhorcged, 
"to  furnish."  BUKTOX  SCOTT  EASTOX 

SUR,  sur  (B,  'Ao-o-ovp,  Assoiir,  A,  2ovp,  Sour) : 
Those  that  dwelt  in  Sur  arc  mentioned  along  with 
the  inhabitants  of  Sidon,  Tyn>,  Ocina,  etc,  as  dread- 
ing the  approach  of  Holofemes  and  the  Assyr 
army  (Jth  2  28).  The  names  rim  from  N.  to  S., 
and  Sur  immediately  follows  Tyre  (modern  Kiir), 
with  which,  therefore,  it  can  hardly  be  identified. 
No  probable  identification  has  been  suggested.  See 
also  JERUSALEM. 

SURE,  shoor,  SURELY,  shoor'li:  In  modern 
Eng.  is  used  chiefly  in  the  phrases  "to  be  sure" 
or  "to  make  sure,"  and  as  a  simple  adjective  it  is 
usually  either  archaic  or  exceedingly  colloquial. 
The  adjectival  use,  however,  is  common  (chiefly 
for  ""CS  ,  'dman,  "to  confirm,"  and  its  derivatives) 
in  EV,  where  modern  Eng.  would  prefer  "secure" 
or  "certain"  (1  S  2  35;  Sir  40  25;  Acts  13  34, 
etc).  "To  be  sure  that"  is  also  fairly  common  in 
AV,  and  occasionally  (as  in  Dt  12  23,  "Be  sure  that 
thou  eat  not  the  blood,"  for  pTH  ,  hazak,  "to  be 
firm")  it  has  rather  more  emphasis  than  in  modern 
Eng.  But  usually  the  phrase  is  a  mere  periphrasis 
for  some  word  meaning  "to  know"  (cf  RV  Ex  3 
19;  Lk  10  11;  Rom  22,  etc).  In  Prov  6  3,  AV 
has  "Make  sure  thy  friend"  for  2rn  ,  rdfuibh,  "be 
boisterous,"  "beset,"  RV  "importune."  The  sense 
is  "Force  him  to  pay  his  debt." 

Surely  in  EV  is  used  almost  always  to  qualify 
an  entire  phrase,  as  in  Gen  28  1(5,  "Surely  Jeh  if 
in  this  place."  In  modern  Eng.  "surely"  used  in 
this  way  suggests  that  t  he  statement  is  being  argued 
and  is  therefore  slightly  doubtful,  but  in  Elizabethan 
Eng.  the  purpose  is  to  exclude  all  doubt  ("beyond 
question").  \Yith  this  force  AV  uses  "surely"  to 
translate  almost  any  emphatic  form,  and  RV  has 
conformed  to  AV's  use,  and  such  changes  as  have 
been  made  by  RV  (Mt  26  73;  Lk  4  23;  Rev  22 
20,  etc)  are  merely  to  preserve  uniformity  of  rendi- 
tion. The  most  common  use  of  "surely"  in  this 
sense  is  to  translate  a  vb.  when  emphasized  by  its 
own  part,  (absolute  inf.  in  Ileb),  as  "Thou  shalt 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Surety 

Susanna  (History) 

surely  die"  (On  2  17)  for  "dying  thou  shalt  die" 
(cf  Gen  22  17  for  the  Heb  construction).  In  this 
sense  "surely"  is  sometimes  varied  by  "of  a  surety" 
(On  15  13,  etc)  without,  the  slightest  difference 
in  meaning  (cf  On  9  5  and  26  <)).  In  addition, 
"surely"  is  used  occasionally  as  a  simple  advb. 
where"  modern  Eng.  would  prefer  "securely"  or 
"certainly"  (cf  Prov  10  (.)  and  AV  Lk  1  1,  "surely 
believed,"  RV  "fulfilled,"  RVin  "fully  established"). 

Surety,  besides  its  vise  in  "of  a  surety  "  appears 
in  the  ( >T  to  translate  1^2  ,  \lrahh,  "to  be  surety,' 
and  in  lie  7  22  for  tyyvos,  eggnos,  "guarantor,'' 
"giverof  security."  Modern  Eng.  prefers  "security  ' 
as  does  even  AV  in  Acts  17  9.  "Suretiship"  (ARV 
"suretyship")  in  Prov  11  1")  for  "P-V  >  ta^a  > 
"to  strike  [hands]."  See  STKIKK;  STKETY. 

Brirrox  SCOTT  EASTON 

SURETY,  shoor'ti:    This  word  is  used  in  three 
different  connections  or  groups: 

(1 )  A  s  a  deriratire  of  Hit:  word  "sure"  it  means  "of 
a  ccrtain.ty"  or  "surely."— In  On  15  13  the  infini- 
tive absolute  of  the  vb.  is  used  to  give  emphasis 
to  the  idea  of  the  vb.  and  is  rendered  "of  a  surety. 
In  (len  18  13  the  Hcb 'omnam  is  trd  "of  a  surety. 
In  C.en  26  9  'atch  is  similarly  rendered,  and  has 
the  force  of  our  "indeed."     In  Acts  12   11  dXijflws, 
alnhox,  is  tr'1   in   AY   "of  a  surety,"  but  better  in 
RV  "of  a  truth." 

(2)  //(.  (he  sense  of  security  or  pledge  for  a  person.— 
This  means  that  one  person  may  become  security 
for  another,  that  such  a  one  will  do  a  certain  thing 
at  a  time  in  the  future.     Judah  was  "surety"  to  his 
father  Jacob  that   Benjamin  would   safely  return 
from    Egypt     (Gen  43  9).     He    pledged    his    life 
that,  the  younger  brother  would  return  safely.     He 
tells   Joseph    (Gen  44  32)    ho\v    he    had    become 
surety  for  Benjamin,  and  offers  to  become  Joseph's 
slave' for  the  sake  of  his  brother.     Job  says  (Job 
17  3),  "Give  now  a  pledge,  be  surety  for  me  with 
thyself;  who  Ls  there  that  will  strike  hands  with  me?" 
The  striking  of  hands  refers  to  the  action  or  gesture 
by  which  the  surety  or  pledge  was  publicly  mani- 
fested and  thus  ratified.     Job  here  beseeches  God 
to  become  surety  for  him,  to  pledge  him  that  some 
time  in  t  lie  future  He  will  cause  Job's  innocence  to  be 
made  known  and  be  acknowledged  by  God  Himself. 
In  Isa  38  UHezekiah  says,  "()  Lord,  I  am  oppressed, 
be  thou  my  surety."     He  wishes  God  to  give  him 
a  pledge  of  some"  kind,  to  go  security  for  him  m 
such  a  way  that  he  will  surely  be  saved  out  of  his 
sickness  aiid  distress.     Jesus  is  called  "the  surety 
[eyyvos,   e//<inos}  of  a  better  covenant"    (He  7  22). 
Jesus  is  the  pledge  or  surety  that  through  Him  we 
may  obtain  the  assurance  and  certainty  that  a  more 
excellent,  covenant  has  been  established  by  God,  and 
are  assured  also  of  the  truth  of  the  promises  con- 
nected with  it. 

(3)  II  is  used  to  describe  the  practice  of  going  se- 
curity for  another  by  striking  hands  with  that  person 
and  becoming  r<sj>onsib!e  for   moncy_  or  any  object 
loaned.— The  Book  of  Prov  unhesit  at  ingly  condemns 
the   practice.     No   mention  is   made   of   it   in   the 
Mosaic  Law,  as  if  the  custom  were  then  practically 
unknown.     The  Book  of  Prov  makes  no  distinction 
between   a   stranger   and   a   neighbor;   the   person 
who  does  such  a  thing  is  likened  unto  an  animal 
caught  in  a  trap.     He  is  exhorted  to  sleep  no  more 
until  he  has  got  out  of  the  trap,  or  freed  himself 
from  this  obligation   (Prov  6  l-o).     The  wisdom 
of  such   advice  has  been   abundantly  verified  by 
experience.     It     does     not     necessarily     preclude 
certain  special  cases,  where  the  practice  may  be 
justified.     The    international   relationships    of    the 
jews  in  the  period  of  the  monarchy,  together  with 
the  unsettled  condition  of  the  country  (Nch  5  3) 
and    people,    needed   such    commercial   strictness. 


2872 


Their  trade  was  mostly  in  the  hands  of  the  Phoe- 
nicians and  other  foreigners,  and  the  pressure  of 
taxation  for  the  payment  of  foreign  tribute,  etc, 
was  heavy  (Neh  5  4f).  Prov  11  15;  17  IS  de- 
clare one  "void  of  understanding"  who  thus  goes 
security  for  another.  Prov  20  16  seems  to  contain 
an  exclamation  of  contemptuous  rebuke  for  the  man 
who  goes  security.  Prov  22  20;  27  13  contain 
like  admonitions.  Sec  DEHT;  PLEDGE;  SECURITY; 
STRIKE.  JAMES  JOSIAH  REEVE 

SURNAME,    sur'nam    (rC3  ,    hdndh;    e-iri.KaX.eiv, 

ci)iknlr'ni):  A  word  derived  from  the  Fr.,  meaning 
"an  additional  name";  in  modern  Eng.  always  the 
family  name  of  a  person.  Indeed,  the  spelling 
"surname"  in  AV  1  Mace  1  10;  2  2;  6  43  may 
be  due  to  a  confusion  with  "sire's  name."  But  the 
custom  of  family  names  was  entirely  unknown 
among  the  Hebrews.  The  word  is  used  twice  in 
AV  of  the  OT,  viz.  Isa  44  f>;  45  4.  The  Heb 
word  means  "to  give  flattering  or  honorary  titles." 
In  the  former  passage  foreigners  are  so  envious  of 
the  prosperity  of  the  Jews  that  they  are  anxious 
to  be  surnamed  by  the  name  of  Israel,  i.e.  to  be 
enrolled  as  members  of  the  Jewish  nation.  In 
the  latter  case  Jeh  gives  Cyrus  an  honorary  title, 
viz.  "servant  of  Jeh,"  and  thus  appoints  him  to  be 
His  instrument  in  the  restoration  of  His  people. 
The  same  word  is  rendered  in  Job  32  21,  AV  "give 
flattering  titles."  Elihu  declares  his  intention  to 
examine  the  situation  without  fear  or  favor,  lie 
will  not  allow  such  high-sounding  titles  as  "Your 
Worship"  or  "My  Lord"  to  stand  in  his  way.  He 
will  not  be  overawed  by  Job's  social  position.  In 
the  NT  the  word  is  used  in  t  lie  case  of  Peter  —  Simon 
whose  surname  is  Peter  (Acts  10  5.32;  11  13);  of 
Mark  —  John  whose  surname  was  Mark  (Acts  12  12. 
2.1;  15  37);  of  Judas  —  surnamcd  Iscariot  (Lk  22  3); 
of  Barsabbas  —  who  was  surnamed  Justus  (Acts  1 
23);  and  of  Judas  —  surnamed  Barsabbas  (Acts  15 
22).  It  was  a  widespread  custom  in  the  ancient, 
world  to  give  honorary  and  symbolical  titles.  Our 
Lord  surnamed  Simon  Peter  (Mk  3  10),  and  James 
and  John  Boanerges  (Mk  317).  Acts  15  37  AV 
has  "surname"  for  the  simple  "call"  (so  RV). 

T.  LEWIS 

SUSA,  su'sa,   soo'sa   (Ad   Est    11  3).     See  Sur- 
BHAN. 


shushan'- 


SUSANCHITES,  sfi-san'klts  (X^' 
khdye').     See  SHUSHANCMITES. 

SUSANNA,  sfl-zan'a,  THE  HISTORY  OF: 

1.  Nil  me 

2.  Canonicity  and  Position 

;$.    ('oiitcnts 

4.  Fact  or  Fiction? 

5.  Date 

6.  Original  Language 

This  novelette  has,  in  the  LXX,  the  bare  title 
"Susanna"  (Zovffdwa,  ftousdnna,  from  Hcb  nSTTTtT  , 

shoshanndh,  "lily").  So  also  in  the 
1.  Name  Syro-Hexapla.  In  Cod.  A  (9)  it  is 

designated  "Opa<m  a,  Horasis  a  (Vision 
!)•  see  BEL  AND  THE  DKACJON,  I.  In  the  Har- 
klensian  Syr  (Ball's  W2)  its  title  is  "The  Book  of 
Little  [or  the  child?]  Daniel." 

Sus  was  with  the  other  Additions  included  in  the  Bible 
Canon    of    the    Or,    Syrian    and    Lat   churches.     Julius 
Africanus    (c   230    AD)    was    the    flrst    to 
2    Canon-       dispute    the   right  of    Sus    to   a    place    in 
.   .,  \         tin-  Canon,  owing  to  its  improbable  char- 

icity  ana  actcr.  Origrn  replied  to  him,  strongly 
Position  maintaining  its  historicity  (see  Schiirer, 
GJV*  III,  455;  //.//',  II,  3,  p.  ISO,  where 
the  references  are  given).  In  the  LXX,  Syro-Hexapla 
and  Vulg,  Sus  is  ch  14  of  Dnl,  but  in  e  (ABQ)  it  opens 
Dnl  preceding  ch  1,  a  position  implied  in  AV  and  KV 
which  are  based  on  0,  formerly  believed  to  be  the  true 


2S73 


THE  INTKUXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Surety 

Susanna  (History) 


LXX.  Yet  it  is  probable  that  even  in  0  the  original 
place  agreed  with  that  in  the  true  LXX  (Swete's  S7j; 
so  Koth  (Kautzsch,  Die  Apok.,  172)  and  Driver  (Comm. 
on  Dnl,  Cambridge  Bible,  xviii).  See  BEL  AND  THE 
DRAGON. 

The  story  of  Sus  is  thus  told  in  Q  (Thcodot ion's 

version),     and   therefore   in   KV   which   follows   it. 

Susanna  was  the  beautiful  and  devout 

3.  Contents  wife  of  Joakiin  who  resided  in  Babylon 

in  the  early  years  of  the  exile,  and 
owned  a  fine  park  which  was  open  to  his  fellow- 
exiles  (vs  1-0-  Two  of  these  last  were;  elders  and 
judges  who,  though  held  in  high  esteem,  suffered 
impure  thoughts  toward  Susanna  to  enter  their 
minds.  One  day,  meet  ing  in  the  park,  they  divulged 
to  each  other  their  lustful  passion  toward  this 
beautiful  woman,  and  resolved  together  to  seize  the 
first  opportunity  to  waylay  her  in  the  park  and  to 
overpower  her  (vs  5-15).  A  joint  attempt  was 
made  upon  Susanna,  who  resisted,  notwithstand- 
ing threats  of  false  accusation  (vs  22-20).  The 
elders  make  a  false  charge,  both  in  private  and  in 
public,  and  she  is  accordingly  condemned  to  death 
(vs  27-41).  On  the  way  to  execution  she  is  met 
by  Daniel  (  =  judge  "of  God")  who  has  the  case 
reopened,  and  by  a  system  of  cross-examination  of 
the  two  elders  succeeds  in  convincing  the  people 
that  Susanna  is  innocent,  of  the  charge  brought 
against  her.  She  is  acquitted,  but  her  accusers  are 
put  to  death. 

The  story  told  in  LXX  (87)  is  essentially  (he  same, 
though  varying  somewhat  in  details.  Vs  1-4  seem  to 
have  been  prefixed  for  clearness  by  0,  for  in  ver  7  of 
LXX  Susanna  is  introduced  for  the  first  time:  "These 
seeing  a  woman  of  beautiful  appearance  called  Susanna, 
the  wife  of  one  of  the  Israelites,"  etc.  The  original 
text  began  therefore  with  ver  5,  though  in  a  slightly 
different  form.  LXX  omits  vs  15-18  which  tell  of  the 
two  elders  concealing  themselves  and  watching  as  Su- 
sanna entered  the  park  and  took  her  bath.  Then;  is  not  a 
word  in  LXX  concerning  the  threats  of  the  elders  to 
defame  Susanna  in  the  event  of  her  refusing  what  they 
desired  (vs  20  tf) ;  this  omission  makes  the  LXX  form 
of  the  story  obscure,  suggesting  that  this  sect  urn  has  fallen 
out  by  error.  Nor  does  the  LXX  mention  the  crying  out 
of  Susanna  and  the  elders  (ver  24).  The  trial  took  place 
in  the  house,  according  to  ©  (and  EV)  (ver  2S),  but, 
according  to  LXX,  in  the  synagogue  (ver  2S).  In  LXX 
(ver  30)  it  is  said  that  the  number  of  Susanna's  relatives, 
servants  and  servant-maids  present  at  the  trial  was  500; 
0  is  silent  on  this.  LXX  (ver  35)  makes  Susanna  pray 
to  God  before  her  condemnation,  but  0  (EV,  vs  42-44) 
after.  According  to  LXX  the  young  man  whom  the 
elders  falsely  said  they  found  with  Susanna  escaped 
unobserved  'because  masked;  0  says  he  got  away 
because  the  elders  had  not  strength  to  hold  him  (ver  39). 
LXX  is  silent  about  the  two  maids  who,  according  to 
0  (ver  30),  accompanied  Susanna  to  the  bath.  0  does 
not  speak  of  the  angel  who  according  to  LXX  imparted 
to  Daniel  the  wisdom  he  displayed  (but  cf  0.  ver  50); 
but  on  the  other  hand  he  adds  the  words  ascribed  to 
Daniel  (ver  51,  EV),  though  he  leaves  out  the  words 
imputed  to  him  by  LXX  (  =evcn  elders  may  lie).  LXX 
omits  the  words  of  the  people  addressed  to  Daniel: 
"What  mean  these  words  which  thou  hast  spoken?" 
(ver  47,  0,  EV).  According  to  ©  (ver  50)  the  people 
entreated  Daniel  to  act  as  judge  among  them;  LXX 
omits  this  statement.  Two  questions  were  put  to  the 
elders,  according  to  LXX:  "Under  what  kind  of  tree?" 
"In  what  part  of  the  park?"  but  only  one,  according  to 
0  (and  EV):  "Under  what  kind  of  tree?"  LXX  has 
it  that  as  a  punishment  the  two  elders  were  hurled  down 
the  precipice;  according  to  0  they  were  slain  (ver  02). 
In  the  last  two  verses  (vs  63  f)  LXX  points  the  moral 
of  the  story,  but  ©  closes  by  describing  the  joy  of  Susan- 
na's relatives  at  the  happy  issue  of  the  trial  and  the  in- 
creased respect  in  which  Daniel  came  to  be  held.  For 
the  dependence  of  the  VS  see  TEXT  AND  VERSIONS. 

It  is  quite  evident  that  the  story  is  a  fabrication 

and  that  it  came  to  be  attached  to  Dnl  on  account 

of   the   part   played   in    it    by    Daniel 

4.  Factor      the    judge.     (1)     The    form     of     the 
Fiction?          story  differs  in  LXX,  6  and  the  various 

Syr  recensions,  showing  that  it  was  a 
floating  legend,  told  in  manifold  ways.  (2)  No 
confirmation  of  what  is  hero  narrated  has  been 
discovered  in  written  or  epigraphic  sources.  (3) 
The  grounds  on  which  Susanna  was  condemned  are 


trivial  and  wholly   inadequate.      (4)  The   conduct 
of  the  judge,  Daniel,  is  unnatural  and  arbitrary. 

Though,  however,  the  story  is  fictitious,  it  rests 
in  part  or  wholly  on  older  sources.  (1)  Ewald 
(Geschichte3.  IV,  386)  believed  that  it  was  .sug- 
gested by  the  Bab  legend  in  which  two  old  men  are 
seduced  by  the  goddess  of  love  (cf  .Koran  2  9Gj. 
(2)  Briill  (D<is  apokryphische  tiuK-Jincli,  1877), 
followed  by  Ball  (Speaker's  A/>oc,  II,  323-31), 
Marshall  and  R.  II.  Charles,  came  to  the  following 
conclusions:  (a)  That  the  first,  half  of  the  story 
rests  on  a  tradition  regarding  two  elders  (Ahab  and 
Zedekiah)  who  seduced  certain  women  by  persuad- 
ing them  that  they  would  thus  become  the  mother 
of  the  Messiah.  This  trad  it  ion  has  its  origin  prob- 
ably in  Jer  29  21-23,  where  it  is  said  that  Jeh 
would  sorely  punish  Ahab  and  Zedekiah  because 
they  had  '  committed  villany  in  Israel,'1  having 
"committed  adultery  with  their  neighbours'  wives" 
(AV).  We  can  trace  the  above  story  amid  many 
variations  in  the  writings  of  Origen  and  Jerome  and 
in  sundry  rabbinical  works,  (b)  The  trial  scene 
is  believed  to  have  a  wholly  different  origin.  It  is 
said  to  have  arisen  about  100-96  BC,  when  Simon 
ben  Shetach  was  president  of  the  Sanhedrin.  His 
son  was  falsely  accused  of  a  capital  offence  and  was 
condemned  to  death.  On  the  way  to  execution  the 
accusers  admit  ted  that  he  was  innocent  of  the  crime; 
yet  at  his  own  request  the  son  is  executed  in  order 
that  the  father's  hands  might  be  st  rengthened  in  the 
inauguration  of  new  reforms  in  the  administration 
of  justice.  The  Pharisees  and  Sadducees  differed 
as  to  the  punishment  to  be  meted  out  to  false 
witnesses  where  the  death  sentence  was  involved. 
The  first  party  advocated  a  stricter  examination  of 
witnesses,  and  a  severer  penalty  if  their  testimony 
could  be  proved  false.  The  Sadducee  party  took 
up  a  more  moderate  position  on  both  points.  Sus 
has  been  held  to  be  a  kind  of  tract  setting  forth  by 
example  the  views  of  the  Pharisee  party.  If  this 
opinion  of  the  origin  of  Sus  bo  accepted,  this  tract 
was  written  by  a  Palestinian  Jew,  a  position 
rendered  probable  by  other  considerations. 

If,  as  the  Gr,  Lat  and  Syr  churches  held  and  hold, 
Sus  forms  an  integral  part  of  Dnl,  the  date  of  this  last 

book  (see  DAM  EL)  is  the  date  of  Sus. 
6.  Date  But  there  is  conclusive  evidence  that  the 

three  "Additions"  circulated  independ- 
ently, though  we  have  no  means  of  iixing  the  date  with 
any  certainty.  Perhaps  this  piece  arose  during  the 
struggles  between  the  Pharisees  and  Sadducees  about 
94-89  BC;  see  preceding  section.  In  that  case  90  BO 
would  be  a  suitable  date.  On  the  date  of  Theodotion's 
tr  see  DANIEL;  BEL  AND  THE  DUAOON;  TEXT  AND 
VERSIONS. 

Our  materials  for  judging  of  the  language  in 
which  the  author  wrote  are  slender,  and  no  great 
probability  can  at  present  be  reached. 
6.  Original  The  following  scholars  argue  for  a 
Language  Gr  original:  Fritzsche,  De  Wette, 
Keil,  Herzfeld,  Graf,  Holtzmann.  The 
following  are  some  of  the  grounds:  (1)  There  are 
several  paronomasias  or  word-plays,  as  in  vs  54  f, 
(rxtvov,  schinon  ["under  a  mastick  tree"]  .... 
ffxlffei,  schisei  ("will  cut");  vs  58  f,  Trpivov,  prlnon 
["under  a  holm  tree"]  ....  irpi<ra.i,  prisai  ("to 
cut").  But  this  last  word  (prisai)  is  absent  from 
the  true  LXX,  though  it  occurs  in  6  (Swete's 
text,  ver  59,  has  kataprise  from  the  same  root).  If 
the  word-play  in  vs  58  f  is  due  to  a  t  r  based  on  LXX, 
the  first  example  (vs  54  f),  found  in  LXX  and  0, 
is  as  likely  to  be  the  work  of  the  translator  of  those 
verses  from  the  Heb.  (2)  It  is  said  that  no  trace  of 
a  Heb  original  has  been  discovered;  but  up  to  a 
few  years  ago  the  same  statement  could  have  been 
made  of  Sir. 

There  is  a  growing  opinion  that  the  author  wrote 
in  Heb  (or  Aram.?);  so  Ball,  J.  T.  Marshall,  R.  H. 
Charles.  (1)  The  writer  was  almost  certainly  a 


Susi 
Swine 


THI-:  I XTKR NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2874 


Palestinian  Jew,  and  ho  would  be  far  more  likely 
lo  write  in  his  own  language,  esp.  as  he  seems  to 
have  belonged  to  the  Pharisaic  party,  who  were 
ardent  nationalists  (see  preceding  section,  at  end). 
(2)  There  is  a  goodly  number  of  Hebraisms,  rather 
more  than  one  would  expecl  had  the  writer  composed 
in  Hellenistic  Gr. 

For  versions  and  literature  sec  UKI.  AND  THK  DRAGON; 
I)\MI:L;  the  Oxford  Apoc.  cd  by  K.  II.  Charles,  638  ff. 
T.  WITTON  DA  VIES 

SUSI,  su'si,  soT/sI  pyvo  ,  .s-».s-7):  Father  of  Gaddi, 
one  of  th(>  spies,  who  represented  the  tribe  of  Ma- 
nasseh  (Nu  13  11).  See  dray,  II1'X,02. 

SWADDLE,    swod"l,     SWADDLING-BAND, 

swod'ling-band  (vb.  -PH ,  liftlhal,  "enwrap," 
"swaddle"  [Fzk  16  4],  noun  nSPn ,  /id/huUali, 
"swaddling-band"  [Job  389];  vb.  o-irapyavow, 
spari/an('>r>,  "to  wrap  in  swaddling  clothes"  [Lk 
2  7.12),  noun  erirap-yava,  X/H'U-I/IIII/I  (])!.),  "swaddling 
clothes"  [Wisd  7  •!].  A\'  also  has  "swaddle" 
[Lain  2  22]  for  n?1^  ,  ta/iln/h,  lit .  "to  extend."  But 
the  word  means  "to  carry  on  the  outstretched  palms 
of  the  hands"  [cf  DTJ^ v ,  tippuhlm,  "dandled  in 
the  hands,"  Lam  2  2()[, 'whence  KV's  "to  dandle") : 
"To  swaddle"  and  "to  swathe1"  are  really  the  same 
word,  both  forms  going  back  to  an  AS  form 
swcthd,  "a  bandage,"  but  "swaddle"  hus_  become 
the  technical  term  for  the  wrapping  of  an  infant  in 
the  Orient-  or  elsewhere.  The  oriental  swaddling- 
clothes  consist  of  a  square  of  cloth  and  two  or  more 
bandages.  The  child  is  laid  on  the  cloth  diagonally 
and  the  corners  are  folded  over  the  feet  and  body 
and  under  the  head,  the  bandages  then  being  tied  so 
as  to  hold  the  cloth  in  posit  ion.  This  device  forms 
the  clothing  of  the  child  until  it  is  about  a  year  oil. 
and  its  omission  (K/k  16  4)  would  be  a  token  that 
the  child  had  been  abandoned.  The  mention  of 
darkness  as  a  "swaddling-band"  at  the  birth  of  the 
sea  (.Job  38  9)  is  only  a  poetic  way  of  saying  that 
the  sea.,  at  its  creation,  was  covered  with  clouds  and 
darkness,  and  to  find  any  idea  of  restraint  involved 
is  fanciful.  BURTON  SCOTT  EA.STON 

SWALLOW,  swal'f)  p^l ,  drror;  <rTpox)66s, 
xtroulh('>s,  in  Prov  and  Pss,  \eX.i.Su>v,  chcliilon,  in  Isa; 
Lat  Hinntilo  rustica):  A  small  long-winged  bird  of 


Swift  (Cypselus  opus). 


exhaust  less  flight,  belonging  to  the  family  Hirundi- 
n  iilac.  D'ror  means  the  bird  of  freedom,  and  as 
the  swallow  is  of  tireless  wing,  it  has  been  settled 
upon  as  fit  ting  the  requirements  of  the  text.  In  the 
passages  where  'ut/lnlr  is  tr'1  "swallow,"  there  is  a 
mistake,  that  word  referring  to  the  crane.  There 
is  also  a  word,  sus  or  sis,  that  means  a  rushing 
sound,  that  is  incorrectly  tr'1  "swallow,"  when  it 
should  be  "swift"  (Cypselus  a  pus). 


These  birds  are  near  relatives  and  so  alike  on  the 
wing  as  to  be  indistinguishable  to  any  save  a  close 
>bserver.  Yet  the  Hebrews  knew  and  made  a  difference, 
rhe  swallow  is  a  trifle  larger  and  different  in  color.  It 
remains  all  the  year,  while  in  numerous  instances  the 
swift  migrates  and  is  a  regular  sign  of  returning  spring. 
The  swallow  is  of  long  and  tireless  flight.  The  swift 
is  so  much  faster  that  the  sound  of  its  wings  can  be 
•icard  when  passing.  The  swallow  plasters  a  mud  nest 
under  eaves,  on  towers,  belfries,  and  close  to  human 
habitations.  Tin-  swifts  are  less  intimate,  building  in 
deserted  places,  under  bridges  and  on  rocky  crevices. 
The  swallows  utter  constantly  a  rather  sweet  low  note; 
the  swifts  chatter  harshly  and  incessantly  at  their  nests. 
These  differences  are  observable  to  t  he  most  careless 
people.  Scientists  separate  t  lie  birds  on  account  of 
anatomical  structure  also.  Despite  this,  the  birds  are 
confused  in  most  of  our  tr9. 

"  Like  a  swallow  or  a  crane,  so  did  I  chatter; 

1  did  moan  as  a  dove;    mine  eyes  fail  with  looking 
upward; 

O  Ijord,  I  am  oppressed,  be  thou  my  surety' 

(Isa  38   14). 

Here  'ayhur  is  tr'1  "swallow"  and  .s/7.s  ''crane," 
which  is  clearly  interchanging  words,  as  the  Arab. 
for  "swifl"  is  KHK,  the  same  as  the  Heb.  The  line 
should  read,  '"swift  and  crane."  And  another 
reason  for  changing  swallow  to  swift,  in  this  pas- 
sage, lies  in  the  fact  that  of  the  two  birds  the  swift 
is  the  incessant  and  raucous  chatterer,  and  this 
was  the  idea  in  the  mind  of  llezekiah  when  he  sang 
his  Trouble  Song.  Another  incorrect  reference  is 
found  in  Jer  8  7:  "Yea,  the  stork  in  the  heavens 
knoweth  her  appointed  times;  and  the  turtle-dove 
and  the  swallow  and  the  crane  observe  the  time  of 
their  coming;  but  my  people  know  not  the  law  of 
Jeh."  Few  swallows  migrate.  Returning  swifts  are 
one  of  the  first  signs  of  spring. 

"As  the  sparrow  in  her  wandering,  as  the  swallow  in  her 
So  t  he  curse  that  is  causeless  alighteth  not  "  (Prov  26  12>. 
This  reference  might  apply  to  either,  remembering 
always  that  the  swift  took  its  name  from  its  excep- 
tional flight,  it  being  able  to  cover  over  SO  miles  an 
hour.  However,  the  swallow  is  credited  with  800 
miles  in  a  night. 

"Yea    the  sparrow  hath  found  her  a  house. 
And  the  swallow  a  nest  for  herself,  where  she  may 

lay  her  young, 

Even  thine  altars,  O  Jeh  of  hosts, 
My  King,  and  my  God"  (Ps  84  3). 

Here  is  one  instance,  at  least,  where  the  swallow 
is  at  home  and  the  tr  correct.  The  swift  might 
possibly  have  built  in  the  temple:  the  swallow  was 
sure  to' be  there.  GENE  STRATTON-PORTER 

SWAN,  swon  (r^'il"!?  ,  tinxhcutcth,  "chameleon," 
"tree-toad,"  "water-lien,"  "owl";  KVKVOS,  kiiknos; 
Lat  ci/aiiux;  AS  swan  and  swnn):  Mentioned  only 
in  old  VSS  and  11  Vm  in  Lev  11  IS:  "the  swan,  and 
the  pelican,  and  the  gier  eagle,"  and  in  Dt  14  16 
(LXX  iropQvplwv ,  porphurion  =  "water-hen";  Vulg 
ibis).  In  RY  this  is  rightly  changed  to  "the  horned 
owl,  and  the  pelican,  and  the  vulture."  A  bird  of 
the  duck  family  wrongly  placed  among  the  abomi- 
nations in  old  VSS  of  the  Bible,  now  changed  to 
horned  owl. 

White  and  gray  swans  spend  their  winter  migratory 
season  on  the  w'aters  of  the  Holy  Land.  They  are 
among  the  most  ancient  birds  of  history;  always  have 
been  used  for  food;  when  young  and  tender,  of  fine  flesh 
and  delicious  flavor;  so  then;  is  no  possibility  that  they 
were  ever  rightfully  placed  among  the,  birds  unsuitable 
for  food.  Their  feeding  habits  are  aquatic,  their  food 
in  no  way  objectionable. 

GENE  STRATTON-PORTER 

SWEARING,  swar'ing.  See  OATH;  PERJURY; 
CRIMES;  PUNISHMENTS. 

SWEAT,  swet  (T&l,  ze'ah  [Gen  3  19],  ^ , 
yczii-  [K/k  44  18];  ISpcSs,  hidr&s  [2  Mace  2  26; 
Lk  22  44]):  "In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou 
eat  bread"  (Gen  3  19).  Somewhat  difficult  is  the 


2875 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Susi 
Swine 


passage,  which  RV  renders:  "But,  (lie  priests  the 
Levites,  the  sons  of  Zadok  ....  shall  have  linen 
tires  upon  their  heads,  and  shall  have  linen  breeches 
upon  their  loins;  they  shall  not  gird  themselves 
with  anything  thtit  can  set  h  sweat,"  lit.  "they  shall 
not  gird  themselves  with  sweat"  (E/k  44  If). IX). 
The  idea  is  evidently  that  profuse;  perspiration  would 
make  their  ministrations  unpleasant.  The  rule  was 
of  special  importance  in  the  sultry  climate  of  1'al. 

Luke,  tin;  physician,  describing  the  agony  of  the 
Lord  in  Gethsemane,  says:  "His  sweat  became  as  it 
were  great  drops  [dptinpoi,  Ihromboi]  of  blood  falling 
down  upon  the  ground"  (Lk  22  44,  RY,  following 
X"  AB,  etc,  notes  in  in:  "Many  ancient  authorities 
omit  vs  43.44").  There  are  two  difficulties  of  inter- 
pretation in  this  passage,  apart  from  the  difficulty 
which  the  physiological  explanation  of  the  phe- 
nomenon presents:  (1)  the  word  (Opt>/u.[3ost  thrdmbos) 
tr'1  "drop"  means  lit.  "a  clot  of  blood,"  "a  lump," 
"a  curd,"  and  is  nowhere  else  used  in  the  sense  of 
drop.  (2)  It  has  been  generally  accepted  that  the 
sweat  of  the  brow  of  Jesus  had  become  bloody  in 
appearance  and  in  character,  a  symptom  called 
in  ancient  medicine  cu/xarwS^s  ISpus,  haimatddes 
hidros,  "bloody  sweat."  It  must,  however,  be 
observed  that  this  tr  would  make;  the  (!r  particle 
w<m,  hosi'l,  superfluous,  by  which,  not:  the  identity 
of  the  sweat  with  drops  of  blood,  but  a  certain 
similarity  or  comparison  must  be  intended.  Ch. 
Th.  Kuinoel,  in  his  Lat,  comin.  on  the  historical 
books  of  the  NT  (Leipzig,  1X00,  II,  (>f>4),  has  given 
all  known  parallel  instances  in  history  and  legend, 
which  seem  to  prove  that  under  certain  psycho- 
logical or  physiological  conditions,  though  rarely, 
haimatddes  hidros  has  occurred. 

Olshausen  in  his  Comm.,  II,  469,  thinks  that  the 
following  points  of  comparison  might  have  been 
in  the  mind  of  Luke:  (1)  the  sweat  may  have 
appeared  on  the  forehead  of  Jesus  in  heavy  drops; 
(2)  these  may  have  dropped  visibly  to  the  ground, 
just  as  drops  of  blood  fall  from  a  wound;  (3)  in 
addition,  possibly  a  reddish  color  may  have  been 
noticeable,  owing  to  an  exudation  of  the  arteries, 
though  the  latter  is  not  directly  expressed  in  the 
words  of  the  evangelist.  See  also  Dr.  Stroud, 
On  the  Physical  Cause  of  the  Death  of  Christ,  183; 
Bynaeus,  De  nwrie  Christ i,  II,  33. 

The  people  of  Pal  in  Gr-Rom  times  were  generally 
provided  with  handkerchiefs,  used  esp.  to  wipe  off  the 
perspiration.  The  fashion  was  derived  from  Koine, 
whence;  the  name  of  those  napkins  became  <roi'6dptor, 
Knuiliirinn,  Lat  nu<larium.  The  late  legend  of  St.  Berenice 
or  St.  Veronica,  who  presented  her  handkerchief  to  the 
Saviour  on  His  way  to  be  crucified,  and  who  found, 
when  it  had  been  returned  to  her  by  the  Lord,  that  His 
features  had  boon  imprinted  upon,  the  cloth,  is  a  reminis- 
cence of  this  use.  These  handkerchiefs  were  frequently 
used  to  tie  up  small  bundles  of  certain  possessions,  money, 
ete(Lk  19  20).  As  a  rule  the  dead  had  their  faces  covered 
with  one,  or  had  it  tied  around  the  head  (Jn  11  44;  20  7). 
In  Kphesus  the  handkerchiefs  of  St.  Paul  were  carried  to 
the  sick,  and  achieved  miraculous  cures  (Acts  19  12). 

The  vb.  If>p6u>,  hidroo,  "to  sweat,"  is  found  in  a  rather 
difficult  passage  of  the  Didache,  (i.O),  which  is  introduced 
as  a  quotation,  the  source  of  which,  however,  we  do  not 
know:  "  Let  thy  alms  sweat  into  [in?]  thy  hands,  until 
thou  knowest  to  whom  thou  givost."  The  context 
seems  to  show  that  we  have  hen;  a  fret;  repetition  of  the 
arguments  of  Sir  12  1  ff.  so  that  the  meaning  would  be: 
"In  giving  charity,  do  not  give  indiscriminately  or 
thoughtlessly,  but  consider  carefully  so  that  no  one  who 
is  unworthy  receive  your  benefaction."  Still  it  is  not 
impossible  that  the  text  is  corrupt  in  the  passage. 

H.  L.  K.  LUEIUXU 
SWEET  CANE,  swet  kan.     See  REED. 

SWEET  INCENSE.     See  SPICES. 

SWELL,  swel  (fQS  ,  ylbhah):  In  the  ordeal  of 
the  Water  of  Jealousy  described  in  Nu  5  11-31  (P), 
the  effect  on  the  unfaithful  wife  of  the  drinking  of 
the  holy  water  was  to  cause  the  thigh  to  fall  away 
(RV)  or  rot  (AV)  and  the  abdomen  to  "swell." 


This  ceremonial  was  a  direct  appeal  to  the  judg- 
ment of  (!od,  for  there  was  nothing  in  the  holy 
water  (taken  from  the  laverj  or  the  dust  of  the 
temple  which  was  mixed  with  it,  to  produce  this 
effect.  In  the  Talmudic  tract  Xoldh  there  are 
given  many  rabbinical  opinions  and  particulars 
as  to  the;  procedure  in  later  times.  Apparently 
from  the  passage  in  Nu,  the  judgment  speed ilv 
followed  the  appeal,  but  according  to  Xiitah,  hi. 4, 
it  might  be  postponed  even  for  four  years,  and 
in  v.  1 ,  it  is  said  to  have  produced  the  same  effect 
on  the  adulterer  as  on  the  unfaithful  wife.  "Wo 
have  no  details  as  to  the  nature  or  permanency 
of  the  swelling. 

"Swell"  as  the  tr  of  another  word,  bac,ek,  is  used 
in  the  sense  of  blistering  of  the  feet  from  long 
tramping.  _  Both  in  Dt  8  4  and  Neh  9  21  it  is  said 
that  in  spite  of  their  long  wilderness  marches  the 
feet  of  the  _  Israelites  did  not  swell.  This  was  a 
token  of  Divine  protection.  See  SWOLLEN. 

ALEX.   MACALISTER 

SWELLING,  swel'ing:  The  vb.  HSW ,  gad!,, 
meat™  "rise  up"  (Ezk  47  f>,  etc),  so  that  the  noun 
ga'awah  (Ps  46  3)  means  "arising."  The  "swell- 
ing" of  the  sea  that  shakes  the  mountains  is  a 
perfectly  good  tr,  and  ''pride"  (so  ARYm)  is  beside 
the  mark.  In  Jer  12  ">;  49  10  50  44;  Zee  11  3 
is  found  the  phrase  (/''on  ha-i/nrdrn,  "exaltation  of 
the  Jordan,"  which  AV  translates  "pride  of  Jordan" 
in  Zee  and  "swelling  of  Jordan"  in  Jer  (RV  has 
"pride"  throughout,  with  "swelling"  in  in  of  Jerj. 
What  is  described  is  a  place,  with  a  mass  of  vege- 
tation, easily  burned  (Zee  11  1-3),  a  lair  of  lions 
(Jer  49  10;  Zee  11  3),  and  a  particularly  danger- 
ous place  for  human  beings  (Jer  12  5).  The  luxuri- 
ant thicket  of  the  Jordan  bank  is  evidently  meant, 
which  could  well  be  spoken  of  as  "Jordan's  pride" 
(OIIL,  "majesty  of  the  Jordan"),  and  "swelling" 
is  quite  impossible. 

In  the  NT  "swelling"  is  used  in  2  Cor  12  20 
for  ff>v<riw<ris,  phusidsis,  "puffing  up,"  "blatant 
self-conceit,"  and  2  Pet  2  18  :,  Jude  ver  1(5  for 
u-n-^poyKos,  huperogkos,  "overgrown,"  "solemnly 
inane."  Brin'ox  SCOTT  EASTOX 

SWIFT.     See  SWALLOW. 

SWIFT  BEASTS  (prr,?-;?  ,  kirkaroth  [Isa 
66  20]):  AV  and  ERA'  "swift  beasts,"  ERVm  and 
ARV  "dromedaries."  In  Mic  1  13  (if  in  ,  rekhesh) 
a  horse  is  meant,  RV  "swift  sU'ed."  Sec  CAMEL; 
HORSE. 

SWINE,   swin    ("PTn,    hazir;   cf  Arab.    Jj'JLs.  , 

khinzir;  vs,  hux,  LXX  and  NT;  cf  CJr  o-xis,  sus, 
and  Lat  SUN;  adj.  vtios,  fn'tews,  as  subst .,  LXX; 
Xoipos,  choiros,  LXX  and  NT):  In  both  ancient 
and  modern  times  domestic  swine  have  been  little 
kept  in  Pal,  but  wild  swine  are  well  known  as 
inhabitants  of  the  thickets  of  the  Hulch,  the  Jordan 
valley,  the  Dead  Sea,  and  some  of  the  mountains. 
The  species  is  ft  us  scrofa,  the  wild  pig  of  Europe, 
North  Africa  and  Western  Asia. 

In  the  OT  the  swine  is  mentioned  in  Lev  11  7 
and  Dt  14  8  as  an  unclean  animal:  "And  the  swine, 
because  he  parteth  the  hoof,  and  is  clovenfooted, 
but  cheweth  not  the  cud,  he  is  unclean  unto  you." 
In  Isa  65  4  and  66  3.17  the  eating  of  swine's  flesh 
and  the  offering  of  oblations  of  swine's  blood  are 
referred  to  as  abominations.  LXX  also  refers  to 
swine  in  three  passages  where  these  animals  are  not 
mentioned  in  the  Heb  and  EV.  In  2  S  17  8  where 
EV  has  "as  a  bear  robbed  of  her  whelps  in  the 
field,"  LXX  adds  (tr)  "and  as  a  savage  boar  in  the 
plain."  In  1  K  21  19  (LXX  20  10),  where  EV 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Swollen 

Synagogue 

has  "in  the  place  where  dogs  licked  the  blood  of 
N-iboth  "  LXX  has  "where  the  swine  and  the  dogs 
licked";'  similarly  in  1  K  22  3S.  In  1  Mace  1 
17  there  is  reference  to  a  decree  of  Antiochus  order- 
ing the  sacrifice  of  swine.  In  2  Mace  6  and  7  there 
are  accounts  of  the  torture  and  death  of  Eleazar, 
an  aged  scribe,  and  of  a  mother  and  her  seven  sons 
for  refusing  to  taste  swine's  flesh.  Swine,  the 
property  of  Gentiles,  are  mentioned  in  the  account 
of  the  Gadarene  demoniac  (Mt  830.31.32;  Mk 
5  11  HM3.M. 10;  Lk  8  32.33),  and  in  the  parable 
of  the  Prodigal  Son  (Lk  15  IT). 10). 

Figurative:  We  find  the  following  figurative  ref- 
erences to  swine: 

"The  boar  out  of  the  wood  doth  ravage  it, 
And  t  he  wild  beasts  of  t  he  field  feed  on  it      (i.e.  on  the 
"vine  out  of  Kgypt  "i   (I'*   80    13); 

"  \s  a  ring  of  gold  in  a  swine's  snout. 
So  is  a  fair  woman  that  is  without  discretion 

"  The  Carmonlans1  [AV  Carmanians,  perhaps  of  Kirman 
or  ('armania,  in  Southwestern  Persia]  raging  in 
wrath  shall  go  forth  as  the  wild  boars  of  the  wood 

"The  dog  turning  to  his  own   vomit    again,  and  the 
sow    that    had    washed   to  wallowing  in   the  mire 
'('2   Pet   2   '2'2;    cf   1'rov   26    \\). 

ALFHKD  ELY  DAY 

SWOLLEN,  swoT'n  (irtfnrpao-etu,  pimprasihai, 
only  in  Acts  28  (i):  The  Melitans  expected  to  see 
Paul  poisoned  by  the  viper's  bite.  KV  and  A\ 
translate  it  "swollen,"  but  the  word  is  used  by  cer- 
tain medical  writers  in  the  sense  of  inflammation; 
see  Meander,  Thcriacn,  300;  Hesiod,  Theogonia, 
Soli,  expressing  thereby  the  burning  up  by  a 
thunderbolt.  Swelling  accompanies  the  local  lesion 
of  snake-bite  and  often  large  purpuric  exudation 
of  blood,  as  well  as  paralysis,  esp.  oi  the  lower 
limbs. 

SWORD,  sord.     See  ARMOR,  III,  />. 

SYCAMINE,  sik'a-mln,  TREE  (o-x)Kap.ivos, 
snkthnino*  [Lk  17  (>]):  This  is  generally  accepted 
'as  the  black  mulberry  tree  (Morus  nitjra;  N.O. 


287G 


mulberry,  .17 '.  alba,  has  white  and  less  juicy  fruit ,  and 
it  is  cultivated  largely  for  the  sake  of  its  leaves  with 
which  the  silkworms  of  the  Lebanon  are  fed. 

E.  \V.  (1.  MASTICUMAN 
SYCAMORE,  sik'a-mdr.     See  SYCOMOIU-;. 

SYCHAR,  sl'kar  (Zv\a.p,  8ncMr):  Mentioned 
only  once,  in  connection  with  the  visit  of  Jesus  to 
Jacob's  Well  (Jn  4  .">).  He  was  passing  through 


Sycamine  or  Black  Mulberry. 

Urticnc.cac),  known  in  Arab,  as  tut  shdmi,  "the 
Damascus  mulberry,"  a  fine  tree  which  grows  to  the 
height  of  30  ft.  It  produces  the  dark  blood-red 
mulberry  juice  referred  to  in  1  Mace  6  34  (nopov, 
moron),  "the  blood  of  ....  mulberries,"  which  was 
shown  to  the  elephants  of  the  Syrians.  The  white 


Fountain  at  'Askar. 

Samaria  on  His  way  to  Galilee,  "so  he  cometh  to  a 
city  of  Samaria,  called  Sychar,  near  to  the  parcel 
of  ground  that  Jacob  gave  to  his  son  Joseph:  and 
Jacob's  well  was  there."  Jerome  thought  the 
name  was  a  clerical  error  for  Sychem  (E/>.  SO).  In 
Onom  he  is  content  to  translate!  Eusebius,  placing 
Sychar  K.  of  Neapolis.  It  is  now  generally  admitted 
that  the  text  is  correct.  Some  have  held,  however, 
that  Sychar  is  only  another  name  for  Shechern 
("Sychem").  It  is  suggested,  e.g.,  that  it  is  a  nick- 
name applied  in  contempt  by  the  Jews,  being  either 
shikkor,  "drunken,"  or  shckar,  "falsehood."  Others 
think  the  form  has  arisen  through  change  of  m 
to  r  in  pronunciation;  as  /  to  r  in  Beliar.  These 
theories  may  safely  be  set  aside.  The  evidence 
that  Sychar 'was  a  distinct  place  E.  of  Sheehem  may 
be  described  as  overwhelming.  It  is  carefully  and 
perspicuously  marshaled  by  G.  A.  Smith  (IIGIlL, 
307  IT).  The  manner  in  which  it  is  mentioned 
shows  that  it  was  not  a  specially  well-known  place: 
"a  city  of  Samaria  called  Sychar."  No  one  familiar 
with  Pal  would  have  written  "a  city  of  Samaria 
called  Sychem."  It  is  mentioned  only  because  of 
its  nearness  to  the  well. 

As  to  the  position  of  the  well,  there  is  general 
agreement  (see  JACOB'S  WELL).  It  is  on  the  right 
of  the  road  where  it  bends  from  the  plain  of  Makhmh 
into  the  pass  of  Sheehem.  Fully  half  a  mile  off, 
on  the  edge  of  the  plain,  is  the  village  of  Askar, 
on  the  lower  slope  of  Ebal.  A  little  to  the  W  .  is  the 


2877 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Swollen 
Synagogue 


traditional  tomb  of  Joseph.  This  is  the  district 
E.  of  Shechcm  usually  identified  with  .Jacob's 
"parcel  of  ground."  Many  have  sought,  to  find 
Sychar  in  the  modern  M.s7iV//\  There  are  two 
difficulties.  The  first  is  UK;  initial  letter  V/t//.  in 
the  modern  name.  But,  G.  A.  Smith  has  shown  that 
such  a  change  as  this,  although  unusual,  is  not  im- 
possible. The  second  is  the  presence  of  the  copious 
spring,  *Ain  M.sA.w,  which  would  make  it,  unneces- 
sary for  the  villagers  to  carry  water  from  Jacob's 
Well.  This  cannot  easily  be  explained  away.  One 
could  understand  a  special  journey  tit  times,  if  any 
peculiar  value  attached  to  the  water  in  the  well; 
but  from  it,  evidently,  the  woman  drew  her  ordinary 
supplies  (ver  15).  This  difficulty  would  probably 
in  any  case  be  fatal  to  the  claim  of  the  village  at 
Mm  *  Ax/car  to  represent  the  ancient  Sychar. 
But  Professor  R.  S.  A.  Macalister  has  shown  reason 
to  believe  that  the  village  is  not  older  than  Arab 
t  imes  (I'EFS,  1907,  92  ff).  He  examined  the  mound 
Tclul  linlata,  nearly  f  mile  S.W.  of  M.s/cnr,  and  just 
W.  of  Joseph's  tomb.  There  he  found  evidence  of 
occupation  from  the  days  of  the  Hob  monarchy  down 
to  the  time  of  Christ.  Here  there  is  no  spring;  and 
it  is  only  |  mile  distant  from  Jacob's  Well — nearer 
therefore  to  the  well  than  to  *Askar.  In  other 
respects  the  site  is  suitable,  so  that  perhaps  here  we 
may  locate  the  Sychar  of  the  Gospel.  The  name 
may  easily  have  migrated  to  *Askar  when  the 
village  fell  into  decay.  W.  EWIXG 

SYCHEM,  sl'kem  (2v)x«V,  Ruchcm):  In  this  form 
the  name  of  Shechem  appears  in  Acts  7  16  AV,  in 
the  report  of  Stephen's  speech.  AV  is  a  tran- 
scription from  the  fir;  RV  in  accordance  with  its 
practice,  to  give  uniformity  in  the  Eng.,  follows  the 
II eb  form  of  the  name  given  in  the  OT. 

SYCOMORE,  sik'6-mor,  TREE  (rvajjin ,  shik- 
muh,  Aram.  XTOpptp  ,  shlkemu',  pi.  D^pTp  ,  shikinlm; 
in  LXX  wrongly  trd  by  o-uKclfjuvos,  sukdminos, 
''the  mulberry";  see  SYCAMINE  [1  K  10  27;  1  Ch 
27  28;  _  2  Ch  1  15;  9  27;  Isa  9  10;  Am  7  14]; 
PiTCpp,  shikmoth  [Ps  78  47];  o-uKOfxcopata,  suko- 
inurnla  [Lk  19  4]):  The  sycomore-fig,  Fie  us  syco- 
tnorus  (X.O.  Urticaceae) ,  known  in  Arab,  as 
Jumtnciz,  is  one  of  the  finest  of  the  lowland  trees 
of  Pal,  and  attains  still  greater  proportions  in  Lower 
Egypt.  It  is  evident  from  1  K  10  27;  2  Ch  1  15 
that  it  was  once  abundant,  and  at  a  later  period  it 
was  so  plentiful  in  the  neighborhood  of  what  is  now 
Haifa  as  to  give  the  name  Sykaminon  to  the  town 
which  once  stood  near  there.  It  is  a  tree  which 
cannot  flourish  in  the  cooler  mountain  heights; 
it  cannot  stand  frost  (Ps  78  47).  It  was  one  of 
the  distinguishing  marks  of  Lower,  as  contrasted 
with  Upper,  Galilee  that  the  sycomore  could  flourish 
there.  It  is  highly  improbable  that  sycomores 
could  ever  have  flourished  near  Tekoa  (cf  Am  7  14), 
but  it  is  quite  possible  that  the  town  or  individual 
inhabitants  may  have  held  lands  in  the  Jordan 
valley  or  in  the  Shephelah  on  which  these  trees 
grew.  Villages  in  Pal  today  not  infrequently  pos- 
sess estates  at  considerable  distances;  the  village  of 
(SY/imu  (Siloam),  for  example,  possesses  and  culti- 
vat  es  extensive  fert  ilc  lands  halfway  to  the  Dead  Sea. 
The  sycomore  produces  small,  rounded  figs,  about  an 
inch  long,  which  grow  upon  tortuous,  leafless  twigs 
springing  from  the  trunk  or  the  older  branches; 
tliey  are  more  or  less  tasteless.  It  would  appear 
that  in  ancient  times  some  treatment  was  adopted, 
such  as  piercing  the  apex  of  the  fruit  to  hasten  the 
ripening.  Amos  was  a  "nipper"  (053 ,  boles)  of 
sycomore  figs  (Am  7  14).  The  tree  not  uncom- 
monly attains  a  height  of  50  ft.,  with  an  enormous 
trunk;  in  many  parts,  esp.  where,  as  near  the  coast, 


the  tree  grows  out  of  sandy  soil,  t  he  branching  roots 
stand  out  of  the  ground  for  some  distance.  The 
timber  is  of  fair  quality  and  was  much  valued  in 
ancient  times  (1  K  10  27;  2  Ch  1  15;  9  27; 
Isa  9  10).  Mummy  cases  and  many  of  the  best 
preserved  wooden  utensils  of  ancient  Egyp  life 


Sycamore 


This  tree  must,  be  distinguished 
sycamore,     Acer    pseudo-platanus 


are  made  of  it. 

from    the    Eng. 

(NX).  Spinduceae),  the  "false  plane  tree,"  a  kind  of 

maple.  E.  \V.  Ci.  MASTEHMAN 


SYENE,  sl-e'no.     See  SKVENEII. 

SYMEON,  sim'e-on  (2u|A€u>v,  Sumcon):  RV  in  Lk 
3  30;  Acts  13  1;  15  14  for  AV  "Simeon"  (q.v.). 
The  persons  are: 

(1)  An  ancestor  of  Jesus  (Lk  3  30). 

(2)  Symeon,  called  Niger,  one  of  the  prophets  and 
teachers  in  the  church  at  Antioch  (Acts  13   1). 

(3)  For  Simon  Peter,  set;  PETER;    cf  Acts  15  14. 
See  SIMEON,  (4),  (5),  ((>). 

SYNAGOGUE,  sin'a-gog: 

1.  Name 

2.  Origin 

:5.   Spread  of  Synagogues 

4.  The  Building 

(1)  The  Site 

(2)  The  Structure 

(3)  The  Furniture 

5.  The  Officials 

(1)  The  Elders 

(2)  The  Killer 

.  (3)   The  Servant  (or  Servants) 

(4)  Delegate  of  the  Congregation 

(5)  The  Interpreter 

(6)  The  Almoners 
0.   The  Service 

(1)  Recitation  of  the  xlr  ,na' 

(2)  Prayers 

(3)  Reading  of  the  Law  and  the  Prophets 

(4)  The  Sermon 

(5)  The  Benediction 
LITERATURE 

Synagogue,  Gr  vwaywyri,  sunagoyt,  "gathering" 
(Acts  13  43),  "gathering-place"'  (Lk  7  5),  was 
the  name  applied  to  the  Jewish  place  of  worship 


Synagogue 
Synagogue,  Great 


TTTE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2878 


in  Inter  Judaism  in  and  outside  (if  P:il.     Proxctiche, 

"a   place   of   prayer"    (Acts  16  13),    was  probably 

more  of   the  nature   of   an    inclosure, 

1.  Name        marking  ol'f  the  sacred  spot  from  the 

profane  foot,  than  of  a  roofed  building 
like  a  synagogue,  tiabbutnon  in  Ant,  XV,  i,  t>,_2, 
most  probably  also  meant  synagogue.  In  the  Mish 
\vefind  for  synagogue  beth  ha-kcneseth,  in  thoTgs  and 
Talm  be-kh"nlshta',  or  sini])ly  k'nlshta'.  The  oldest 
Christ  ian  meet  ings  and  meet  ing-places  were  modeled 
on  the  pattern  of  the  synagogues,  and_  in  Christian- 
Palestinian  Aram,  the  word  kenlshtd'  is  used  for 
the  Christian  church  (cf  Zalm,  Tatian's  Diatessaron, 
335). 

That,  the  synagogue  was,  in  the  time  of  Our  Lord, 

one   of   the  "most    important,    religious   institutions 

of  the  Jews  is  clear  from  the_fact  that 

2.  Origin        it  was  thought  to  have  been  instituted 

by  Moses  (CAp,  ii,  17;  Philo,  DC  Vita 
.l/asv-.s,  iii.27;"cf  Tg  Jer  to  Ex  18  20).  It  must 
have  come  into  being  during  the  Bab  exile.  At  that 
time  the  more  devout  Jews,  far  from  their  native 
land,  having  no  sanctuary  or  altar,  no  doubt  felt 
drawn  from  time  to  time,  esp.  on  Sabbath  and  feast 
days,  to  gather  round  those  who  were  specially 
pious  and  God-fearing,  in  order  to  listen  to  the  word 
of  (Jod  and  engage  in  some  kind  of  worship.  That 
such  meetings  were  not  uncommon  is  made  prob- 
able by  Ezk  14  1;  20  1.  This  would  furnish  a 
basis  for  the  institution  of  the  synagogue.  After 
the  exile  tin;  synagogue  remained  and  even  devel- 
oped as  a  counterpoise  to  the  absolute  sacerdotal- 
ism of  the  temple,  and  must  have  been  fell  abso- 
lutely necessary  for  the  Jews  of  the  Dispersion. 
Though  at  first  it  was  meant  only  for  the  exposi- 
tion of  the  Law,  it  was  natural  that  in  the  course 
of  time  prayers  and  preaching  should  be  added  to 
the  service."  Thus  these  meetings,  which  at  first. 
were  only  held  on  Sabbaths  and  feast  days,  came 
also  to  be  held  on  other  days,  and  at  the  same  hours 
with  the  services  in  the  temple.  The  essential 
aim,  however,  of  the  synagogue  was  not  prayer, 
but.  instruction  in  the  Law  for  all  classes  of  the 
people.  Philo  calls  the  synagogues  "houses  of 
instruction,  where  the  philosophy  of  the  fathers 
and  all  manner  of  virtues  were  taught"  (cf  Mt  4  2)5; 
Mk  1  21;  6  2;  Lk  4  15.33;  6  (5;  13  10;  Jn  6  59; 
18  20;  CAp,  ii,  17). 

In  Pal  the  synagogues  were  scattered  all  over  the 

country,  all  the  larger  towns  having  one  or  more 

(e.g.  Nazareth,  Mt  13  54;  Capernaum, 

3.  Spread      Mt  12  9).     In  Jerus,   in  spite  of  the 
of  Syna-          fact   that   the  Temple  was  there,  there 
gogues  were  many  synagogues,  and  all  parts 

of  the  Diaspora  were  represented  by 
particular  synagogues  (Acts  6  9).  Also  in  heathen 
lands,  wherever  there  was  a  certain  number  of  Jews, 
they  had  their  own  synagogue:  e.g.  Damascus 
(Acts  9  2),  Salamis  (13  5),  Antioch  of  Pisidia 
(13  14),  Thessalonica  (17  1),  Corinth  (18  4), 
Alexandria  (Philo,  Ley  Ad  C<ti,  xx),  Rome  (ib,  xxiii). 
The  papyrus  finds  of  recent  years  contain  many 
references  to  Jewish  synagogues  in  Egypt,  from  the 
time  of  Euergetes  (247-221  BC)  onward.  Accord- 
ing to  Philo  (Quod  own  is  prohits  liber  sit,  xii,  et  al.) 
the  Essenes  had  their  own  synagogues,  and,  from 
'Abhoth  3  10,  it  seems  that  "the  people  of  the  land," 
i.e.  the  masses,  esp.  in  the  country,  who  were  far 
removed  from  the  influence  of  the  scribes,  and  were 
even  opposed  to  their  narrow  interpretation  of  the 
Law,  had  their  own  synagogues. 

(1)  The  site. — There  is  no  evidence  that  in  Pal 
the  synagogues  were  always  required  to  be  built 
upon  high  ground,  or  at  least  that  they  should  over- 
look all  other  houses  (cf  PEFS,  Julv,  1878,  126), 
though  we  read  in  the  Talm  that  this  was  one  of 
the  requirements  (Tos  M'ghillah,  ed  Zunz,  4  227; 


Shabbuth    llu).      From    Acts  16   13    it     does    not 

follow    that    synagogues    were    intentionally    bull! 

outside     the     city,     and     near    water 

4.  The  for    the    sake   of    ceremonial    washing 
Building          (cf  Monutssrhr.  fiir   Gesch.    und    Wis- 

sensch.  dcs  Judenthums,  1889,  167-70; 
HJP,  II,  370). 

(2)  The  structure. — Of  the  style  of  the  architecture 
we  have  no  positive  records.     From  the  description 
in  the  Talm  of  the  synagogue  at  Alexandria    (Tt>$ 
Sukkah,  ed  Zunz,  198  20;    Sukkah  516)  one  imag- 
ines the  synagogues  to  have  been  modeled  on^  the 
pattern  of 'the  temple  or  of  the  temple  court.     From 
the  excavations  in  Pal  we  find  that  in  the  building 
the  stone  of  the  country  was  used.     On  the  lintels 
of  the  doors  were  different  forms  of  ornamentation, 
e.g.    seven-branched    candlesticks,    an   open   flower 
between   two   paschal  lambs,    or  vine   leaves  with 
bunches  of  grapes,  or,  as  in  Capernaum,  a  pot  of 
manna    between    two    representations    of    Aaron's 
rod.     The   inside   plan    "is   generally   that   of   two 
double  colonnades,  which  seem  to  have  formed  the 
body  of  the  synagogue,  the  aisles  E.  and  W.  being 
probably    used    as    passages.     The    intercolumnar 
distance  is  very  small,  never  greater  than  9-i  ft." 
(Edersheim).     Because  of  a  certain  adaptation  of 
the  corner  columns  at  the  northern  end,  Edersheim 
supposes  that   a  woman's  gallery  was  once  erected 
there.      It  does  not  appear,  however,  from  the  OT  or 
NT  or  the  oldest  Jewish  tradition  that  there  was 
any  special  gallery  for  women.      It  should  be  noted, 
as  against  this  conclusion,  that  in  DC  Vita  Contempla- 
tira,  attributed  by  some  to  Philo,  a  certain  passage 
(sec.  iii)   seems  to  imply  the  existence  of  such  a 
gallery. 

(3)  ~  The  furniture. — We  only  know  that  there  was 
a  movable  ark  in  which  the  rolls  of  the  Law  and  the 
Prophets  were  kept.      It  was  called  '(iron  ha-kodhesh, 
but    chiefly   lebhah    (Wyhillah  3   1;   X"dharlm  5  5; 
Tn'nnltli   2  1.2),   and  it   stood  facing  the  entrance. 
According  to    Ta'anlth    15>i   it    was  taken  out.  and 
carried  in  a  procession  on  fast  days.      In  front  of  the 
ark,  and  facing  the  congregation,  were  the  "chief 
seats"  (see  CHIEF  SEATS)  for  the  rulers  of  the  syna- 
gogue and  the  learned  men  (Ml    23  6).     From  Neh 
8  4  and  9  4  it  appears  that  the&ema/i  (3eTUsMeghil- 
Idh  3   1),  a  platform  from  which  the  Law  was  read, 
although  it   is  not    mentioned    in   the   NT,  was  of 
ancient  date,  and  in  use  in  the  time  of  Christ. 

(1)  The  ciders.— These  officials  (Lk  7  3)  formed 
the  local  tribunal,  and  in  purely  Jewish  localities 

acted  as  a  Committee  of  Management 

5.  The  of    the    affairs    of    the    synagogue    (cf 
Officials         BTakhoth  4  7;  N'dharim  6  5;  Meghil- 

liih  31).  To  them  belonged,  most 
probablv,  among  other  things,  the  power  to  excom- 
municate (cf  Ezr  10  8;  Lk  6  22;  Jn  9  22;  12  42; 
16  2;  'Edhuyoih  6  6;  Ta'anith  3  8;  Middoth  2  2). 

(2)  The  rider. — Gr  archisundgogos  (Mk  5  35;  Lk 
8  41.49;  13  14;  Acts  18  8.17),  Heb  rosti  ha-keneseth 
(Sdtdk  1  7.S).    In  some  synagogues  there  were  several 
rulers   (Mk  5  22;   Acts' 13  15).     They   were  most 
probably  chosen  from  among  the  elders.     It  was  t  he 
ruler's  business  to  control  the  synagogue  services,  as 
for  instance  to  decide  who  was  to  be  called  upon  to 
read  from  the  Law  and  the  Prophets  (Yd  ma'  7  1)  and 
to  preach  (Acts  13  15;  cf  Lk  13  14);  he  had  to  look 
after  the  discussions,  and  generally  to  keep  order. 

(3)  The    scrrant     (or    servants}.— Gr   huperetes; 
Talm   hazzan  (Lk  4  20;    Yduia'  1  1;   Sotah  7  7.8). 
He  had  to  see  to  the  lighting  of  the  synagogue  and 
to  keep  the  building  clean.     He  it  was  who  wielded 
the  scourge  when  punishment  had  to  be  meted  out 
to   anyone  in   the   synagogue    (Mt  10  17;    23  34; 
Mk  13  9;     Acts  22  19;     cf    Makkoth    16).     From 
Shabbath  1  3  it  seems  that  the  hazzan  was  also  an 
elementary  teacher  (see  EDUCATION). 


'        '-'- 


2870 


THE  INTKRXAT10XAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Synagogue 
Synagogue,  Great 


(4)  The  delegate  of  the  cott(/re(/(di,on. — Heb  sh''llah 
gibbur(Ro'sh  ha-shdndli  4  !);  li'Tdkholk  5  f>).  This 
office  was  not  permanent,  hut  one  was  chosen  at- 
each  meeting  by  the  ruler  to  fill  it,  and  lie  conducted 
the  prayers.  According  to  M''</liilld/t  4  />,  he  who 
was  asked  to  read  the  Scriptures  was  also  expected 
to  read  the  prayers.  He  had  to  be  a  man  of  good 
character. 

(f>)  The  interpreter. — I  Tel)  methdrgemdn.  It  was 
his  duty  to  translate  into  Aram,  the  passages  of  the; 
Law  and  the  Prophets  which  were  read  in  Heb 
(M'tltiillah  3  3;  cf  1  Cor  14  2S).  This  also  was 
probably  not  a  permanent  office,  but  was  filled 
at  each  meet  ing  by  one  chosen  by  1  he  ruler. 

((>)  The,  almoners. —  (I)''/nd'7  3  1;  Kiihludrin  4  f>). 
Alms  for  the  poor  were  collected  in  the  synagogue 
(cf  Mt  62).  According  to  IT-'u/t,  8  7,  the  collect- 
ing was  to  be  done  by  at  least  two  persons,  and  the 
distributing  by  at  least  three. 

(1)  The-   recitation  of  the  "xfrmti*." — At  least  ten 
persons  had  to  be  present  for  regular  worship  (.!/'- 

(jhilluh  4  3;    8ftiihctlltnn  1  6).      There 
6.  The  were  special  services  on  Saturdays  and 

Service  feast  days.  In  order  to  keep  the  syna- 
gogue services  uniform  with  thoseof  t  he 
temple,  both  were  held  at,  tin1  same  hours.  The  order 
oi  service  was  as  follows:  the  recitation  of  the  xh''in<t\ 
i.e.  a  confession  of  (iod's  unity,  consisting  of  the 
passages  Dt  6  4-9;  11  13-21;  'Nu  15  37-41  (H-ra- 
hhuth  2  2;  Taniuik  5  1).  Before  and  after  the  recita- 
tion of  these  passages  "blessings"  were  said  in  con- 
nection with  the  passages  (B'Tdkhdlh  1  4).  This 
formed  a  very  important  part  of  the  liturgy.  It 
was  believed  to  have  been  ordered  by  Moses  (cf 
Ant,  IV,  viii,  13). 

(2)  I'ruj/crx. — The  most    important  prayers  were 
the  Sh'moneh  YN/V/I,  "Eighteen   Eulogies,"  a  cycle 
of    eighteen    prayers,    also    called    "The    Prayer" 
(B'rdkhoth  4  3;     TtfanWi  2  2).     Like   the    sti'ma* 
they  are  very  old. 

The  following  is  the  first,  of  the  eighteen:  "Blessed 
art  Thou,  the  Lord  our  Cod.  und  the  (iod  of  our  fathers, 
the  (iod  of  Abraham,  the  (!od  of  Isaac,  and  the  God 
of  Jacob:  the  great,  the  mighty  and  the  terrible  Cod. 
the  most  high  (iod  Who  showcst  mercy  and  kindness. 
Who  creates!  all  things.  Who  rememlierest  the  pious 
deeds  of  the  patriarchs,  and  wilt  in  love  bring  a  redeemer 
to  their  children's  children  for  Thy  Name's  sake;  ()  King, 
Helper.  Saviour  and  Shield!  Blessed  art  Thou,  O  Lord, 
the  Shield  of  Abraham." 

The  prayers  of  the  delegate,  were  met  with  a 
response  of  Amen  from  the  congregation. 

(3)  Tlie  re/ta ing  of  (he   Lain  and  the   Prophets. — 
After  prayers  the   pardshdh,  i.e.  the   pcricope  from 
the  Law  for  that  Sabbath,  was  read,  and  the  inter- 
preter tr'1  verse  by  verse  into  Aram.  (M''tjhilldh  3  3). 
The  whole  Pent  was  divided  into  lot  pericopes,  so 
that  in  the  course  of  3  years  it   was  read  through 
in  order.     After  the  reading  of  the  Law  came  the 
Hnplddrdh,    the    pcricope   from    the    Prophets   for 
that  Sabbath,  which  the  interpret  (T  did  not  neces- 
sarily translate  verse  by  verse,  but  in  paragraphs 
of  3  verses  (Meghilldh,  loc.  cit .). 

(4)  The  xcrnion. — After  the  reading  from  the  Law 
and  the  Prophets  followed  the  sermon,  which  was 
originally  a  casuistical  exposition  of  the  Law,  but 
which  in  process  of  time  assumed  a  more  devotional 
character.     Anyone  in  the  congregation  might    bo 
asked  by  the  ruler  to  preach,  or  might  ask  the  ruler 
for  permission  to  preach. 

The  following  example  of  an  old  (1st  cent.  AD)  rabbinic 
sermon,  based  on  the  words,  "He  hath  clothed  me  with 
the  garments  of  salvation"  (Isa  61  10,  a  verse  in  the 
chapter  from  which  Jesus  took  His  text  when  addressing 
the  synagogue  of  Xa/arcth),  will  servo  as  an  illustration 
of  contemporary  Jewish  preaching: 

"Seven  garments  the  Holy  One — blessed  he  He! — • 
has  put  on,  and  will  put  on  from  the  time  the  world 
was  created  until  the  hour  when  He  will  punish  the  wicked 
Edom  (i.e.  Rom  empire).  When  He  created  the  world, 


He  clothed   Himself  in   honor  and  majesty,  as  it   is  said 
(Is   104   1):    'Thou    art   clothed  in   honor  and  majesty' 
Whenever    He    forgave    the    sins    of    Israel,     He    clotlfed 
Himself   m  white,  for   we   read   (l)nl    7   !)) :    'His  raiment 
was  white  as  snow.'      When   He  punishes   tile   peoples  of 
the  world.   He  puts  on   the  garments  of  vengeance,  as  it 
is  said  (Isa  59    17):    'He  put  on  garments  of  vengeance 
for  clothing,    and    was  clad    with   zeal   as   a  cloke  '      The 
sixth  garment  He  will  put  on  when  the  Messiah  comes : 
then  He  will  clothe  Himself  in  a  garment  of  righteousness' 
lor  it  is  said   (ib) :    'He  put   on  righteousness  as  a  breast- 
plate, and  an  helmet  of  salvation  upon   His  head  '      The 
seventh    garment    He    will     put    on    when     He    punishes 
iMlorn;    then   He  will  clothe  Himself  in  'ndhfnn    i  e    'red  ' 
for  it   is   said    (Isa   63   2):     'Wherefore   art    Thou   red   in 
Ihme  apparel'."      Hut  the  garment   which   He  will   nut 
upon  the  Messiah,   this  will  shine    afar,  from  one  end  of 
the  earth  to  the  other,   for  it  is  said   (Isa  61    10)-    '  As  a 
bridegroom  decketh   himself  with  a  garland.'      And   the 
Israelites  will  partake  of  His  light,  and  will  say 
'  Blessed  is  the  hour  when  the  Messiah  shall  come! 
Blessed  the  womb  out  of  which  He  shall  come! 
Blessed   His  contemporaries  who  are  eye-witnesses! 
Blessed  the  eye  that  is  honored  with  a  sight  of  Him! 
For  the  opening  of  His  lips  is  blessing  and  peace; 
His  speech  is  a  moving  of  the  spirits; 

The  thoughts  of  His  heart  are  confidence  and  cheerful- 
ness ; 

The  speech  of  His  tongue  is  pardon  and  forgiveness- 
His  prayer  is  the  sweet  incense  of  offerings; 
His  petitions  are  holiness  and  purity. 

()  how  blessed  is  Israel,  for  whom  such  has  been  prepared' 
For  it   is  said   (Ps  31    1!)):     "How  great  is  Thy  goodness 

which  thou  hast  laid  up  for  them  that  fear  ihee 

(P'sikta',  ed  Buber). 

(n)  The  benediction. — After  the  sermon  the  bene- 
diction was  pronounced  (by  a  priest),  and  the 
congregation  answered  Amen'  (B'rakhoth  5  4;  Kotah 
7  2.3). 

LITERATURE. — L.  Zuuz,  Dir  gotlfsilicnstlichtn  Vor- 
triifie  fler  Juden.  2d  ed ;  Herzfeld,  (iexchichti-  <lrx  Vittkis 
Israel,  III,  129-H7,  l,S.'5-22<i;  Hausratll,  \entrxtament- 
liche  Zeitgesch.,  2d  ed,  7:?-,S();  HJP,  II,  :557-.SO;  GJ  V 
II,  497-544;  Kdersheim.  Life  and  Times  of  Jesus  the 
Messiah,  5th  ed.  I,  431-50;  Oesterly  and  Box.  "  The 
Religion  and  Worship  of  the  Synagogue."  Church  and 
Synagogue,  IX,  no.  2,  April,  1907,  p.  4(i;  W.  Bacher, 
art.  "Synagogue"  in  II DB;  Strack,  art.  "Synagogen" 
m  RE,  3d  ed.  XIX. 

PAUL  LEVEHTOFF 
SYNAGOGUE   OF  LIBERTINES.     See  LIBER- 


SYNAGOGUE  OF  SATAN.  See  SATA.Y,  SYNA- 
GOGUE OF. 

SYNAGOGUE,  THE  GREAT:  A  college  or 
assembly  of  learned  men,  originating  with  Ezra, 
to  whom  Jewish  tradition  assigns  an  important 
share  in  the  formation  of  the  OT  Canon,  and  many 
legal  enactments  (see  CANON  OF  THE  OT).  One 
of  its  latest  members  is  said  to  have  been  Simon 
the  Just  (c  200  BC).  The  oldest  notice  of  the  Great 
Synagogue  is  in  the  tract  of  the  Mish,  I'irkc  'Abhdth 
(c  200  AD);  this  is  supplemented  by  an  often- 
quoted  passage  in  another  tract  of  the  Mish,  lidhltd' 
linlhm  (14/>),  on  the  Canon,  and  by  later  traditions. 
It  tells  against  the  reliableness  of  these  traditions 
that  they  are  late,  and  are  mixed  up  with  much  that 
is  self-evidently  unhistorical,  while  no  corrobora- 
tion  is  found  in  Ezr  or  Neh,  in  the  Apoc,  or  in 
Jos.  On  this  account,  since  the  exhaustive  dis- 
cussion by  Kuenen  on  the  subject  (Over  tic  Munnen 
dcr  droote  Kyniujoye},  most  scholars  have  been  dis- 
posed to  throw  over  the  tradition  altogether,  regard- 
ing it  as  a  distorted  remembrance  of  the  great  con- 
vocation described  in  Neh  8-10  (so  W.  R.  Smith, 
Driver,  etc;  cf  art.  by  Solbie  in  HDH  in  support 
of  total  rejection).  This  probably  is  an  excess  of 
skepticism.  The  convocation  in  Neh  has  no  points 
of  resemblance  to  the  kind  of  assembly  recalled 
in  this  tradition;  and  while  fantastic  details  may 
be  unreal,  it  is  difficult  to  believe  that  declarations 
so  circumstantial  and  definite  have  no  foundation  at 
all  in  actual  history.  The  direct  connection  with 
Ezra  may  be  discounted,  though  possibly — indeed  it 
is  likelv — somebody  associated  with  Ezra  in  his  un- 


Synoptic 
Syria 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2880 


deniable  labors  on  the  Canon  may  have  furnished 
the  germ  from  which  the  instil ut ion  in  question  was 
developed  (see  the  careful  discussion  in  C.  II.  II. 
Wright,  Ecd,  1-10,  and  Excursus  III,  "The  Men 
of  the  Croat,  Synagogue"). 

For  the  rabbinical  quotations  and  further  impor- 
tant details,  see  C.  Taylor's  Sayings  of  the  Jewish 
Father*,  11  f  and  110  f.  JAMES  Oitu 

SYNOPTIC,  si-nop'tik,  GOSPELS.  See  GOS- 
PELS, SYNOPTIC. 

SYNTYCHE,  sin'ti-ke  (Suvrvxt],  Runtuche,  lit. 
"fortunate''  [Phil  4  2]j:  A  Christian  woman  in  the 
church  at  Philippi.  She  and  Euodia,  who  had  some 
quarrel  or  cause  of  difference  between  them,  are 
mentioned  by  name  by  Paul,  and  are  besought 
separately:  "I  beseech  Euodia,  and  I  beseech  Syn- 
tyche''  (AY)  to  be  reconciled  to  one  another,  to  be 
"'of  the  same  mind  in  the  Lord."  The  apostle  also 
entreats  an  unnamed  Christian  at  Philippi,  whom 
he  terms  "true  yokefellow,"  to  "help  these  women, 
for  they  labored  with  me  in  the  gospel."  What  he 
means  is  that  he  asks  the  true  yokefellow  to  help 
Euodia  and  Syntyche,  each  of  whom  had  labored 
with  Paul. 

This  refers  to  the  visit  which  he,  in  company  with 
Silas  and  Luke  and  Timothy,  paid  to  Philippi  (Acts 
16  112  IF),  and  which  resulted  in  the  gospel  being  intro- 
duced to  that  city  and  the  church  being  formed  there. 
Kuodia  and  Syntyche  had  been  among  the  first  converts 
and  had  proved  helpful  in  carrying  on  the  work.  The 
word  used  for  "labored"  signifies  "they  joined  with  me. 
in  my  struggle,"  and  probably  refers  to  something  more 
than'  ordinary  labor,  for  those  were  critical  times  of 
danger  and  suffering,  which  the  apostle  and  his  compan- 
ions and  fellow-workers  then  encountered  at  Philippi. 

That  workers  so  enthusiastic  and  so  honored 
should  have  quarreled,  was  very  sad.  Paul, 
therefore,  entreats  them  to  be  reconciled.  Doubt- 
less his  request  was  given  heed  to,  esp.  in  view  of 
his  promised  visit  to  Philippi.  See  ErouiA;  YORK- 
FELLOW  JOHN  RUTHBRFURD 

SYNZYGUS,  sin'zi-gus  (<r\>vlvyt,  xunznnc):  In 
Phil  4  3  it  is  rendered  "yokefellow."  WHin  (?6v- 
fi>7e,  Siiitziiye'),  Thayer,  Lex.  NT,  5<)4  (Stffirye, 
tiiiziiyc),  and  others,  take  it  as  a  proper  name  in  this 
passage.  See  YOKEFELLOW. 

SYRACUSE,  sir'a-kus,   sir-a-kiis'  (Sup<lKov<rai, 

SumkiniHai;  Lat  Syracusae,  Ital.  tiiraeusa):  Situ- 
ated on  the  east  coast  of  Sicily,  about  midway 
between  Catania  and  the  southeastern  extremity 
of  the  island. 

The  design  of  the  present  work  scarcely  permits 
more  than  a  passing  allusion  to  Syracuse,  the  most 
brilliant  Gr  colony  on  the  shores  of  the  Western 
Mediterranean,  where  Paul  halted  three  days,  on 
his  way  from  Melita  to  Rome  (Acts  28  12).  The 
original  Corinthian  colony  founded  in  734  BC 
(Thucydides  vi.3)  was  confined  to  the  islet  Ortygia, 
which' separates  the  Great  Harbor  from  the  sea. 
Later  the  city  spread  over  the  promontory  lying 
northward  of  Ortygia  and  the  harbor. 

Syracuse  assumed  a  preeminent  position  in  the 
affairs  of  Sicily  under  the  rule  of  the  tyrants 
Gelon  (485-478  BC;  cf  Herodotus  vii.  154-55)  and 
I  Heron  (478-407  BC).  It  nourished  greatly  after 
the  establishment  of  popular  government  in  400 
BC  (Diodorus  xi.08-72).  The  Syracusans  suc- 
cessfully withstood  the  famous  siege  by  the  Athe- 
nians in  414  BC,  the  narrative  of  which  is  the  most 
thrilling  part  of  the  work  of  Thucydides  (vi,  vii). 

Dionysius  took  advantage  of  the  fear  inspired  by 
the  Carthaginians  to  elevate  himself  to  despotic 
power  in  405  BC,  and  he  was  followed,  after  a  reign 
of  38  years,  by  his  son  of  the  same  name.  Although 
democratic  government  was  restored  by  Timoleon 


after  a  period  of  civil  dissensions  in  344  BC  (Plu- 
tarch, Timoleon),  popular  rule  was  not  of  long 
duration. 

The  most  famous  of  the  later  rulers  was  the  wise 
I  Heron  (275-210  BC),  who  was  the  steady  ally  of 
the  Romans.  His  grandson  and  successor  Hierony- 
mus  deserted  the  alliance  of  Rome  for  that  of 
Carthage,  which  led  to  the  celebrated  siege  of  the 
city  by  the  Romans  under  Marcellus  and  its  fall  in 
212  (Livy  xxiv.  21-33).  Henceforth  Syracuse  was 
the  capital  of  the  Rom  province  of  Sicily.  Cicero 
calls  it,  "the  greatest  of  Greek  cities  and  the  most 
beautiful  of  all  cities"  (Cicero  Verr.  iv.52). 

GKOK<;E  II.  ALLE\ 

SYRIA,  sir'i-a  (Svpta,  Suria  [Mt  4  24;  Lk  2  2]): 


1.  Name  and  Its  Origin 
•2.   Other  Designations 

3.  Physical 

(1)  The  Maritime  Plain 

(2)  First  Mountain  Belt 

(3)  Second  Mountain  Belt 

(4)  Great  Central  Valley 

(5)  The  Eastern  Belt 

(6)  Rivers 

(7)  Nature  of  Soil 

(8)  Flora 

(9)  Fauna 

(10)  Minerals 

(11)  Central  Position 

4.  History 

(1)  Canaanitic  Semites 

(2)  Sargon  of  Agade 

(3)  Babylonian  Supremacy 

(4)  Hittite  and  Aramaean 

(5)  Hittites  and  Egyptians 
(0)   Amarna  Period 

(7)  Kameses  II 

(8)  Philistines 

(9)  Tiglath-pileser  I 

(10)  Aramaean  States 

(11)  Peaceful  Development 

(12)  Shalmaneser  II 
(i:i)   Tiglath-pileser  III 

(14)  Shalmaneser  IV  and  Sargon 

(15)  Pharaon-necoh  and  Nebuchadnezzar 

The  name  does  not  occur  in  the  MT  nor  the  Posh 

of  the  OT,  but   is  found  in  the  LXX,  in  the  Posh 

of  the  NT  and  in  the  Mish.     In  the 

1.  Name        LXX  it,  represents  "Aram"  in  all  its 
and  Its  combinations,     as     Aram-zobah,     etc. 
Origin             The     name      itself     first    appears    in 

Herodotus  vii.  03,  where  he  says  that 
"Syrians"  and  "Assyrians"  were  the  Gr  and  bar- 
barian designations  of  the  same  people.  Otherwise; 
he  is  quite  vague  in  his  use  of  the  term.  Xenophou 
is  clearer  when  he  (Attah.  vii.  8,  25)  distinguishes 
between  Syria  and  Phoenicia.  Syria  is  undoubtedly 
an  extension  of  the  name  "Suri,"  the  ancient  Bab 
designation  of  a  district  in  North  Mesopotamia,  but 
later  embracing  regions  beyond  the  Euphrates  to 
the  N.  and  W.,  as  far  as  the  Taurus.  Under  the 
Seleucidae,  Syria  was  regarded  as  coextensive  with 
their  kingdom,  and  the  name  shrank  with  its 
dimensions.  Strabo,  Pliny  and  Ptolemy  give  its 
boundaries  as  the  Taurus  Mountains,  the  Euphrates, 
the  Syro-Arabian  desert  and  the  Mediterranean,  and 
the  territory  within  these  limits  is  still  politically 
designated  Syria,  though  popularly  Pal  is  generally 
named  separately. 

Homer  (Iliad  11.785)  and  Hesiod  (Theog.  304) 
call  the  inhabitants  of  the  district  "Arimoi,"  with 

which  cf  the   cuneiform   "Arirnu"   or 

2.  Other        "Aramu"  for  Aramaeans.    The  earliest 
Designa-        Assyr    name    was     "Martu,"     which 
tions  Hommel  regards  as  a  contraction  of 

"Amartu,"  the  land  of  the  "Amurru" 
or  Amoritcs.  In  Egyp  records  the  country  is 
named  "Rut  en"  or  "Luten,"  and  divided  into 
"Lower"  and  "Upper,"  the  former  denoting  Pal 
and  the  latter  Syria  proper. 

(1)  The  maritime  plain.  —  Syria,  within  the  boundaries 
given,  consists  of  a  series  of  belts  of  low  and  high  land 
running  N.  and  S.,  parallel  to  the  Mediterranean.  The 
first  of  these  is  the  maritime  plain.  It  consists  of  a 


2881 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Synoptic 
Syria 


broad  strip  of  sand  dunes  covered  by  short,  grass  an< 
low  hushes,  followed  by  a  series  of  low  undulating  hill.1- 
and  wide  valleys  which  gradually  rise  to  ; 
o  phvciral  height  <>f  about  500  ft.  Tliis  belt-  begin; 
rnybicdi  jn  xorth  Syria  with  the  narrow  Plain  o 
Issus,  which  extends  to  a  few  miles  S 
of  Alexandretta,  but  farther  S.  almost  disappears,  being 
represented  only  by  the  broader  valleys  and  the  smaller 
plains  occupied  by  such  towns  as  Latakia,  Tripolis  am 
Beirut.  S.  of  the  last  named  the  maritime  belt  is  con- 
tinuous, being  interrupted  only  where  the  Ladder  of  Tyrt 
and  Mt.  Channel  descend  abruptly  into  the  sea.  In  the 
Plain  of  Akka  it  has  a  breadth  of  8  miles,  and  from  Carme 
southward  it  again  broadens  out,  till  beyond  Caesarea 
it  has  an  average  of  10  miles.  Within  the  sand  dunes 
the  soil  is  a  rich  alluvium  and  readily  yields  to  cultiva- 
tion. In  ancient  times  it  was  covered  with  palm  trees, 
which,  being  thence  introduced  into  Greece,  were  from 
their  place  of  origin  named  pholnikcx. 

(2)  First  mountain  belt. — From  the  maritime  plain 
we  rise  to  the  first  mountain  belt.  It  begins  with  tin; 
Amanus,  a  branch  of  the  Taurus  in  the  N.  Under  that 
name  it  ceases  with  the  Orontes  valley,  but  is  continued 
in  the  Nuseiriyeh  range;  (Mt.  Oassius,  5,750  ft.),  till  the 
Eleutherus  valley  is  reached,  and  thence  rising  again  in 
Lebanon  (average  5,000  ft.),  Jebel  Suiinin  (8,7X0  ft  ) 
it  continues  to  the  Leontes  or  Quasmiyrh.  The  range 
then  breaks  down  into  the  rounded  hills  of  Upper  Galilee 
(:i,500  ft.),  extends  through  the  table-land  of  Western 
Pal  (2,500  ft.),  and  in  the  S.  of  Judaea  broadens  out  into 
the  arid  Badiet  et-Tih  or  Wilderness  of  Wandering. 

(.'?)  Second  mountain  hi  It. — Along  with  this  may  he 
considered  the  parallel  mountain  range.  Beginning 
in  the  neighborhood  of  Riblah,  the  chain  of  Anti-Lebanon 
extends  southward  to  Hermoii  (0.200  ft.),  and  thence 
stretches  out  into  the  plateau  of  the  Jaulan  and  Hauran 
where  we  meet  with  the  truncated  cones  of  extinct  vol- 
canoes and  great  sheets  of  basaltic  lava,  esp.  in  ct-Li-ja 
and  Ji-hel  ed-Druz.  The  same  table-land  continues  south- 
ward, with  deep  ravines  piercing  its  sides,  over  Gilead 
Moab  and  Edorn. 

(4)  Great  central  valley. — -Between  Lebanon  and  Anti- 
Lebanon  lies  the  great  valley  of  Coele-Syria.  It  is  con- 
tinued northward  along  the  Orontes  and  thence  stretches 
away  eastward  to  the  Euphrates,  while  southward  it 
merges  into  the  valleys  of  the  Jordan  and  the  Arabah 
From  the  sources  of  the  Orontes  and  Leontes  at  Baalbek 
(4.000  ft.)  it  falls  away  gently  to  the  N. ;  but  to  the  S  the 
descent  is  rapid.  In  Merj  'Ayun  it  has  sunk  to  1,800  ft 
at  Lake  Huleh  it  is  +7  ft.,  at  the  Lake  of  Tiberias 
-682  ft.,  and  at  the  Dead  Sea  —1,292  ft.,  and  thence  it 
rises  again  to  the  Gulf  of  Akabah.  This  great  valley  was 
caused  by  a  line  of  fault  or  fracture  of  the  earth's  crust 
with  parallel  and  branching  faults.  In  ancient  times  the 
whole  valley  formed  an  arm  of  the  sea,  and  till  the  Glacial 
period  at  the  end  of  the  Tertiary  (Pleistocene)  Age,  a  lake 
extended  along  the  whole  Jordan  valley  as  far  as  the 
//!//(//.  We  can  thus  understand  that  the  great  plain  and 
adjoining  valleys  consist  mainly  of  alluvial  deposits  with 
terraces  of  gravel  and  sand  on  the  inclosing  slopes.  See 
LEBANON;  NATURAL  FEATURES;  PALESTINE;  PHOENICIA. 

(o)  The  eastern  belt. —To  the  E.  of  the  Anti- 
Lebanon  belt  there  is  a  narrow  stretch  of  cultivated 
land  which  in  some  places  attains  a  breadth  of 
several  miles,  but  this  is  always  determined  by 
the  _  distance  to  which  the  eastern  streams  from 
Anti-Lebanon  flow.  Around  Damascus  the  Abana 
(Barada)  and  neighboring  streams  have  made  the 
district  an  earthly  paradise,  but  they  soon  lose 
themselves  in  the  salt  marshes  about  10  miles  E. 
of  the  city.  Elsewhere  the  fruitful  strip  gradu- 
ally falls  away  into  the  sands  and  rocks  of  the 
Syrian  desert,  barren  alike  of  vegetable  and  animal 
life. 

(G)  Rivers. — The  mountain  ranges  determine  the 
course  of  the  rivers  and  their  length.  The  streams 
flowing  westward  are  naturally  short  and  little  more 
than  summer  torrents.  Those  flowing  to  the  desert 
are  of  the  same  character,  the  only  one  of  impor- 
tance being  the  Abana,  to  which  Damascus  owes 
its  existence.  Only  the  great  central  valley  per- 
mits the  formation  of  larger  rivers,  and  there  we 
lind  the  Orontes  and  Leontes  rising  within  a  few 
feet  of  each  other  beside  Baalbek,  and  draining 
Coele-Syria  to  the  N.  and  S.,  till  breaking  through 
the  mountains  they  reach  the  sea.  The  Jordan  is 
the  only  other  stream  of  any  size.  In  ancient,  as 
also  in  modern  times,  the  direction  of  these  streams 
determined  the  direction  of  the  great  trade  route 
from  Mesopotamia  to  Egypt  through  Coele-Syria 
and  across  Pal,  as  also  the  position  of  the  larger 


towns,  but,  no!    being   themselves   navigable,    thev 
did  not  form  a  means  of  internal  communication. 

(7)  Nature  of  the  .so/7.  —The  varialion  in  allilude 
both  above  and  below  the  sea-level  is  naturally 
conducive  to  a  great  variety  of  climate,  while  the 
nature  of  the  disintegrating  rocks  and  the  alluvial 
soil  render  great  productivity  possible.  Both  of 
the  mountain  belts  in  their  whole  length  consist 
chiefly  of  cretaceous  limestone,  mixed  with  friable 
limestone  with  basaltic  intrusions  and  volcanic  prod- 
ucts. The  limestone  is  highly  porous,  and  during 
the  rainy  season  absorbs  the  moisture  which  forms 
reservoirs  and  feeds  the  numerous  springs  on  both 
the  eastern  and  western  slopes.  The  rocks  too  are 
soft  and  penetrable  and  can  easily  be  turned  into 
orchard  land,  a  fact  that  explains  how  much  that 
now  appears  as  barren  wastes  was  productive  in 
ancient  times  as  gardens  and  fruitful  fields  (Bab 
Talm,  M'gh.  6a). 

(S)  Flora. — The  western  valleys  and  the  rnarit  ime 
plain  have  the  flora  of  the  Mediterranean,  but  the 
eastern  slopes  and  the  valleys  facing  the  desert  are 
poorer.  On  the  southern  coasts  and  in  the  deeper 
valleys  the  vegetation  is  tropical,  and  there  we  meet 
with  the  date-palm,  the  sugar-cane  and  the  svco- 
morc.  Up  to  1,000  ft.,  the  products  include  the 
carob  and  the  pine,  after  which  the  vine,  the  fig  and 
the  olive  are  met  with  amid  great  plantations  of 
dwarf  oak,  till  after  3,000  ft.  is  reached,  then 
cypresses  and  cedars  till  the  height  of  <>,200  ft., 
after  which  only  Alpine  plants  are  found.  The 
once  renowned  "cedars  of  Lebanon"  now  exist 
only  in  the  Kadtsha  and  Baruk  valleys.  The  walnut 
ami  mulberry  are  plentiful  everywhere,  and  wheat, 
corn,  barley,  maize  and  lentils  are  widely  culti- 
vated. Pasture  lands  are  to  be  found  in  the 
valleys  and  plains,  and  even  during  the  dry  season 
sheep,  goats  and  cattle  can  glean  sufficient  pastur- 
age among  the  low  brushwood. 

(9)  Fauna. — -The  animal  world  is  almost  as  varied. 
The  fox,  jackal,  hyena,  bear,  wolf  and  hog  are  met 
nearly  everywhere,  and  small  tigers  are  sometimes 
seen  (cf  2  K  14  9).     The  eagle,  vulture,  partridge 
and  blue  pigeon  are  plentiful,  and  gay  birds  chirp 
everywhere.     The  fish  in  the  Jordan  and  its  lakes 
are  peculiar  and  interesting.     There  are  in  all  22 
varieties,  the  largest  being  a  kind  of  perch,  the  cont- 
emns,  which  is  known  elsewhere  also  in  the  Nile 
(Jos,  Ant,  III,  x,  8),  and  a  peculiar  old-world  variety 
locally  named  *Abu-musht. 

(10)  Minerals. — In    both    the    eastern    and    the 
western  mountain  belts  there  are  abundant  supplies 
of  mineral  wealth.     They  consist  chiefly  of  coal, 
iron,  bitumen,  asphalt  and  mineral  oil,  but  they  are 
mostly  unworked.     In  the  Jordan   valley   all   the 
springs  below  the  level  of  the  Mediterranean  are 
brackish,  and  many  of  them  are  also  hot  and  sul- 
phurous, the  best  known  being  those  at  Tiberias. 

(11)  Central    position. — The    country,    being    in 
virtue  of  its  geographical  configuration  separated 
into  small  isolated  districts,   naturally   tended   to 
break  up  into  a  series  of  petty  independent  states. 
Still  the  central  position  between  the  Mesopotamian 
empires  on  the  one  hand  and  Egypt  and  Arabia  on 
the  other  made  it  the  highway  through  which  the 
trade  of  the  ancient  world  passed,  gave  it  an  im- 
portance far  in  excess  of  its  si/e  or  productivity, 
ind    made   it   a   subject   of   contention   whenever 
East  and  West  were  ruled  by  different  powers. 

(1)  Canaanitic  Semites. — When  history  begins  for 
is  in  the  3d  millennium   BC,   Syria   was   already 
occupied  by  a  Sera  population  belong- 
4.  History     ing  to  the  Canaanitic  wave  of  immi- 
gration, i.e.  such  as  spoke  dialects  akin 
to  Heb  or  Phoen.     The  Semites  had  been  already 
settled  for  a  considerable  time,  for  a  millennium 
earlier   in   Egypt   we  find   Sem   names   for   Syrian 


Syria 

Syriac  Versions 


articles  of  commerce,  as  well  as  Semites  depicted 


asdoubtful 

references  to  earlier  relations  between  Babylon  a 
and  Syria,  we  may  consider  ourselves  on  solid 
groundy?n  accepting  the  statements  o  the  (men 
Tablets  which  toll  us  that  Sargon  of  Agade  (2750 
BC  four  times  visited  the  land  of  Martu  and  made 
fhe  peoples  of  one  accord.  His  son  Naram-sm, 
while  Sending  the  empire  in  other  A™*£™{ 
maintained  his  authority  here  also.  Commercial 
Sons  were  continued,  and  Babylonia  claimed 
at  least  a  supremacy  over  Martu,  and  at  times  made 
it  effective. 

(3)  Babylonian  supremacy.-  Hammurabi  and  als< 
his   great-grandson    Ammisatana   designate     hem- 
selves  in  inscriptions  as  kings  of  Martu    and  it  is 
very  1  kely  that  other  kings  maintained  the  tra- 
"l  1  ional  limits  of  the  empire.     The   ong-con  mued 
supremacy  of  Babylon  not  only  made  itself  felt  in 

OH  hg  place-names,  but  it  made  Assyrian  the 
language  of  diplomacy,  even  between  Syria  and 
Egypt  ,  as  we  see  in  the  Am  1  ab. 

(4)  Hittite  and  AromoeaM.—  By  the  middle  of  the 
2d  millennium  BC  we  find  considerable  change  in 
?ne     op  Cation.     The  Mitanni,    a   Hittite  people 
the  remains  of  whose  language  are  to  be  found    n 

he  still  undeciphered  inscriptions  at  Carchem.sh 
Marash,  Aleppo*  and  Hamath,  are  now  masters  of 
North  Syria.  See  HITTITKS. 


'Elsewhere  the  Aramaean  wave  has  become  the 
predominant  Sem  element  of  population,  the  Ca- 
SaaniUc  now  occupying  the  coast  towns  (Phoeni- 
cians) and  the  Canaan  of  the  C 

A)  Hittitc*  and  Egyptians.—**  this  time  Baby 
was  subject  to  the  Kassites,  an  alien  race  of 
and  when  they  fell,   about   1100  BC    they 

tl  i  r      l.  r,    ,-,(    ahra-i    mira- 


Hittites,  weakened  by  this  war,  were  further  en- 
croached upon  by  the  movements  of  northern 
races,  and  the  empire  broke  up  into  a  number  o 
small  separate  independent  states. 

(S)  Philistines.—  Among  the  moving  races  that 
helped  to  weaken  and  break  up  the  Hittite  influence 
in  Syria  were  the  Pulusati  (or  Purusati  ,  a  people 
whose  origin  is  not  yet  definitely  settled.  I  hey 
entered  Syria  from  the  N.  and  overcame  all  who 
met  them,  after  which  they  encamped  within  the 
Egyp  sphere  of  influence.  Ramescs  III  marched 
against  them,  and  he  claims  a  great  victory  Later, 
however  we  find  them  settled  m  Southeastern 
Pal  under  the  name  of  Philis.  Their  settlement  at 
that  time  is  in  harmony  with  the  Am  Tab  in  which 
we  find  no  trace  of  them,  while  m  the  1  1th  cent.  BC 
they  arc  there  as  the  inveterate  foes  ot  Israel. 

(9)  Tiglath-pilcaer  /.-Assyria   was   now   slowly 
rising  into  power,  but  it  had  to  settle  with  Babylon 
belote  it,  could  do  much  in  die  W.     Tiglath-pileser 
1    however,   crossed  the  Euphrates,   defeated  the 
Hittite  king  of  Carchemish,  advanced  to  the  coast 
of  \rvad,  hunted  wild  bulls  in  Lebanon  and  received 
sifts  from  the  Pharaoh,  who  thus  recognized  him  as 
the  successor  of  the  Hittites  in  North  Syria. 

(10)  Aramaean  states.  -When  the  Hit  t  it  e  empire 
broke  up,   the  Aramaeans  in  Central  Syria,   now 
liberated,  set  up  a  number  of  separate  Aramaean 
states,   which   engaged   in  war  with   one  another 
except  when  they  had  to  combine  against  a  common 
enemy      Such  states  were  established  in  Hamath, 
Hadrach,  Zobah  and  Rehob.     The  exact  position 
of    Hadrach   is   still   unknown,   but    Hamath   was 
evidently  met  on  its  southern  border  by   Rehob 
and  Zobah,  the  former  extending  along  the  Btqaa 
to  the  foot  of  Hermon,  while  the  latter  stretched 
along    the    eastern    slopes    of    Anti-Lebanon    and 
included   Damascus,   till  Rezon  broke  away  and 
there  set  up  an  independent,  kingdom,  which  soon 
rose  to  be  the  leading  state;   S.E.  of  Hermon  were 
the  two  smaller  Aramaean  states  of  Geshur  and 


U-m<r«      find    \\liun     LIH--Y     iv.n,     " 

gave  place  to  a  number  of  dynasties  of  short  dura- 
tion This  gave  the  Egyptians,  freed  from  the 
Hyksos  rule, "the  opportunity  to  lay  claim  to  Syria, 
and  accordingly  we  find  the  struggle  to  be  between 
the  Hitti.es"  and  the  \gyptums  Thothmes  , 
ibout  1600  BC,  overran  Syria  as  far  as  the  IAI 
ph?ates  and  brought  the  country ^  into ;  subject M,^ 
Thothmes  III  did  the  same,  and  he  has  lett  us  on 
the  walls  of  Karnak  an  account  of  his  campaigns 
and  a  list  of  the  towns  he  conquered 

(6)  Amarna  period.-ln  the  reign  of  Thothmes .IV 
the  Hittites  began  to  leave  ^™%^£%fm 
•md  more  and  to  press  forward  into  Uentral  bv.ru. 
The  Am  Tab  sholv  them  to  be  the  most  serious 
opponents  to  the  Egyp  authority  m  Syria  and  I  a 
during  the  reign  of  Amenhotep  IV  (c  1380  BC),  ami 
before  Set!  I  came  to  the  throne  the  power  of, the 
Pharaohs  had  greatly  diminished  in  Syi  a.  1  lie  n 
the  Egyp  sphere  only  reached  to  Carmel,  while  a 
neutrfizonl  extended  thence  to  Kadesh,  northward 
nf  which  all  belonged  to  the  Hittites. 

(7)  Rameses  II  —  Rameses  II  entered  energeti- 
cally into  the  war  against  Hat esar  king  of  the 
Hittites  and  fought  a  battle  near  Kadesh.  He 
claims  a  great  victory,  but  the  only  result  seems  to 
have  beeS  that  his  authority  was  further  extended 
into  the  neutral  territory,  and  the  sphere  of  Eg>p 
influence  extended  across  Syria  from  the  - 
(Dog  River)  to  the  S.  of  Damascus.  The  arrange- 
ment was  confirmed  by  a  treaty  m  which  North 
^yria  was  formally  recognized  as  the  Hittite  sphere 
confluence,  and,  on  the  part  of  the  Assyrians  who 
were  soon  to  become  the  heirs  of  the  Hittite  pre- 
renlns,  this  treaty  formed  the  basis  of  a  claim 
against  Egypt.  About  the  year  1200  BC 


Peaceful  development.  -For  nearly  three 
centuries  now,  Syria  and  Pal  were,  except  on  rare 
occasions  left  in  peace  by  both  Mesopotamia 
and  Egypt-  In  the  12th  cent,  BC  Babylonia  was 
wasted  by  the  Elamite  invasion,  and  thereafter  a 
m'ol  mgcHl  war  was  carried  on  between  Assyria 
ami  Babylonia,  and  although  a  lengthened  period 
J  "peace  succeeded,  it  was  wisely  used  by  the  peace- 
ful rnlors  of  Assyria  for  the  strengthening  of  their 
kingdom  internally.  In  Egypt  the  successors  of 
HI  were  engaged  against  the  aggressive 
Theban  hierarchy  .  During  the  XXlst  Dynasty 
the  hrone  was  usurped  by  the  high  priests  of  Amen 
while  the  XXIld  were  Lybian  usurpers,  and  the 
three  following  dynasties  Ethiopian  conquerors. 

(12)  Shahnaneser  //.—In  the  9th  cent,  Asshur- 
nazirpal  crossed  the  Euphrates  and  overran  the 
recently  established  state  of  Patm  m  the  Plain  of 
Antioch  He  besieged  its  capital  and  planted 
a  colony  in  its  territory,  but  the  arrangement  was 
not  final,  for  his  successor,  Shalmaneser  II,  had 
again  to  invade  the  territory  and  break  up  the 
kingdom  into  a  number  of  small  principalities. 
Then  in  854  BC  he  advanced  into  Central  Syria, 
but  was  met  at  Karkar  by  a  strong  confederacy 
consistin-  of  Ben-hadad  of  Damascus  and  his 
Syrian  aflies  including  Ahab  of  Israel  He  claims 
a  victory  but  made  no  advance  for  5  years.  .He 
fhln  Sade  three  unsuccessful  expeditions  agamst 
Damascus  but  in  842  received  tribute  from  lyre 
SidSi  and  Jehu  of  Israel,  as  recorded  and  depicted 
on  the  Black  Obelisk.  It  was  not.  till  he  year  797 
that  Ramman-nirari,  after  subduing  the  coast  ot 
PhoenST  was  able  to  reduce  Mari'a  of  Damascus 
to  obedSce,  at  which  time  also  he  seems  to  have 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAKDI A 


Syria 

Syriac  Versions 


carried  his  conquests  through  Eastern  Pal  as  far 
as  Edom.  The  Assyr  power  now  suffered  a  period  of 
decline,  during  which  risings  took  place  at  Hadrach 
and  Damascus,  and  Jeroboam  II  of  Israel  was  able 
(2  K  14  25)  to  extend  his  boundaries  northward 
to  the  old  limits. 

(13)  Tiglath-pileser  III. — It  thus  happened  that 
Tiglath-pileser  Hi  (745-728)  had  to  reconquer  the 
whole    of    Syria.      He    captured   Arpad    after    two 
years'    warfare    (742-740).     Then   he   divided   the 
territory  of  Hamath  among  his  generals.     At  this 
juncture  Ahaz  of  Judah  implored  his  aid  against 
He/in  of  Damascus  and  Remaliah  of  Israel.     Aha/ 
was  relieved,   but   was   made   subject   to   Assyria. 
Damascus  fell  in  732  BC  and  a  Great  Court  was  held 
there,   which    the   tributary    princes   of  Syria,    in- 
cluding Ahaz  (2  K  16  10),  attended.      The  Assyr 
empire;  now  possessed  the  whole  of  Syria  as  far  as 
the  River  of  Egypt.     Sibahe,  however,  encouraged 
revolt  in  what  had  been  the  Egyp  sphere  of  influ- 
ence, and  insurrections  took  place  in  Phoenicia  and 
Samaria. 

(14)  Shalmaneser  IV  and  Sargon. — After   some 
difficulty    Shalmaneser    IV    compelled    Tyre    and 
Sidon   to   submit   and   to   pay   tribute.     Samaria, 
too,  was  besieged,  but  was  not  taken  till  Sargon 
came   to   the   throne   in   722.     Hamath   and   Car- 
chemish  again  rose,  but  were  finally  reduced  in  720 
and  717  respectively.     Again  in  711  Sargon  over- 
ran Pal  and  broke  up  a  fresh  confederacy  consist  ing 
of  Egypt,  Moab,  Edom,  Judah  and  the  Philis.     In 
705  the  Egyptians  under  Sibahe  and  their  allies 
the  Philis  under  Hanun  of  Gaza  were  dcfeatctl  at 
Raphia. 

The  last  three  rulers  of  Assyria  were  in  constant 
difficulties  with  Babylonia  and  a  great  part  of  the 
empire  was  also  overrun  by  the  Scythians  (c  6'2l) 
BC),  and  so  nothing  further  was  done  in  the  W. 
save  the  annexation  of  the  mainland  possessions  of 
Phoenicia. 

(15)  Pharaoh-nccoh  and  Nebuchadnezzar. — In  GOO 
when  Assyria  was  in  the  death  grapple  with  Baby- 
lonia, Pharaoh-necoh  took  advantage  of  the  situa- 
tion, invaded  Syria,  and,  defeating  Josiah  en  route, 
marched  to  Carchemish.     In  (505,  however,  he  was 
there  completely  defeated  by  Nebuchadnezzar,  and 
the  whole  of  Syria  became  tributary  to  Babylonia. 
The  former  Syrian  states  now  appear  as  Bab  prov- 
inces, and  revolts  in  Judah  reduced  it  also  to  that 
position  in  586  BC. 

Under  Pers  rule  these  provinces  remained  as  they 
were  for  a  time,  but  nil  imately  "Ebir  nari"  or  Syria 
was  formed  into  a  satrapy.  The  Gr  conquest  with 
the  Ptolemies  in  Egypt  and  the  Seleucidae  in  Baby- 
lon brought  back  some  of  the  old  rivalry  between 
E.  and  W.,  and  the  same  unsettled  conditions. 
On  the  advent  of  Rome,  Syria  was  separated  from 
Babylonia  and  made  into  a  province  with  Antioch  as 
its  capital,  and  then  the  Sem  civilization  which  had 
continued  practically  untouched  till  the  beginning 
of  the  Christian  era  was  brought  more  and  more 
into  contact  with  the  W.  With  the  advent  of  Islam, 
Syria  fell  into  Arab  hands  and  Damascus  became! 
for  a  short  time  (6(51-750  AD)  the  capital  of  the  new 
empire,  but  the  central  authority  was  soon  removed 
to  Babylonia.  Thenceforward  Syria  sank  to  the 
level  of  a  province  of  the  caliphate,  first  Abbasside 
(750-1258),  then  Fatimite  (1258-1517),  and  finally 
Ottoman.  W.  M.  CHRISTIE 

SYRIA-MAACHAH,  sir'i-a-ma'a-ka.  See  MAA- 
CAH;  SYRIA. 

SYRIAC,  sir' i-ak:  In  Dnl  2  4,  for  AV  "Syriack" 
RV  has  "Syrian,"  and  in  m  "Or,  'in  Aramaic.'" 
See  ARAMAIC  LANGUAGE;  LANGUAGES  OF  THE  OT. 


Ll 


SYRIAC  VERSIONS: 

Analogy  of  Latin  Vulgate 

The  Designation  "Pcshito1 

Syriac  OT 

Syriac  NT 

Old  Syriac  Texts 

(1)  Ouretonian 

(2)  Tatian's  Dinli'ssnroii 
Oi)    Sinaitic  Syriac 

(4)    Relation  to  IVshito 
Probable  Origin  of  IVshito 
History  of  Peshito 
Other  Translations 
(1  )    The;  Philoxenian 

(2)  The  Harclcan 

(3)  The  .Jerusalem  Syriac 

TERATUKE 


("Pcshitta") 


As  in  the  account,  of  tin;  Lat  VSS  it  was  con- 
venient to  start-  from  Jerome's  Vulg,  so  the  Syr  VSS 
may  be  usefully  approached  from  the  Pesh,  which 
is  the  Syr  Vulg. 

Not  that  we  have;  any  such  full  and  clear  knowledge 

of  the  circumstances  under  which  the  Pesh  was  produced 

and   came   mto   circulation.      \Yhereas   the 

1.  Analogy     authorship  of  the  Lat  Vulg  has  never  been 
nf  latin  m  dispute,  almost  every  assertion  regard- 
"    ,  ing   the  authorship  of  the   Pesh,   and   the 
Vulgate  time  and  place  of  its  origin,  is  subject  to 

question.  The  chief  ground  of  analogy 
between  the  Vulg  and  the  Pesh  is  that  both  came  into 
existence  as  the  result  of  a  revision.  This,  indeed,  has 
been  strenuously  denied,  but  since  Dr.  Hort  in  his  In- 
tro to  Westcott  and  Hort's  A"7'  in  the  Oriijinal  (,'r,  fol- 
lowing Griesbach  and  Hug  at  the  beginning  of  the  last 
century,  maintained  this  view,  it  has  gained  many  adher- 
ents. So  far  as  the  Gospels  and  other  NT  books  are 
concerned,  there  is  evidence  in  favor  of  this  view  which 
has  been  added  to  by  recent  discoveries;  and  fresh  in- 
vestigation in  the  field  of  Syr  scholarship  has  raised  ifc 
to  a  high  degree  of  probability.  The  very  designation. 
"Peshito,"  has  given  rise  to  dispute.  It  has  been  applied 
to  the  Syr  as  the  version  in  common  use,  and  regarded 
as  equivalent  to  the  (Jr  /con-rj  (koint)  and  the  Lat  Yuly. 

The  wrord  itself  is  a  fern,  form  (peshttetka')  ,  mean- 

ing "simple,"  "easy  to  be  understood."     It  seems  to 

have    been    used    to    distinguish    the 

2.  The  version    from    others    which    are    en- 
Designation  cumbered    with    marks    and    signs    in 
"Peshito"      the   nature  of    an   apparatus  crilicus. 

However  this  may  be,  the  term  as  a 
designation  of  the  version  has  not  been  found  in 
any  Syr  author  earlier  than  the  9th  or  10th  cent. 

As  regards  the  OT,  the  antiquity  of  the  Version  is 
admitted  on  all  hands.  The  tradition,  however,  that 
part  of  it  was  tri  from  Heb  into  Syr  for  the  benefit  of 
Hiram  in  the  days  of  Solomon  is  a  myth.  That  a  tr 
was  made  by  a  priest  named  Assa,  or  Ezra,  whom  the 
king  of  Assyria  sent  to  Samaria,  to  instruct  the  Assyr 
colonists  mentioned  in  2  K  17,  is  equally  legendary. 
That  the  tr  of  the  OT  and  NT  was  made  in  connection  wit  h 
the  visit  of  Thaddaeus  to  Abgar  at  Edessa  belongs  also 
to  unreliable  tradition.  St.  Mark  has  even  been  credited 
in  ancient  Syr  tradition  with  translating  his  own  Gospel 
(written  in  Lat,  according  to  this  account)  and  the  other 
books  of  the  NT  into  Syr. 

But  what  Theodore  of  Mopsuestia  says  of  the 

OT  is  true  of  both:   "These  Scriptures  were  tr'1  into 

the  tongue  of  the  Syrians  by  someone 

3.  Syriac        indeed  at  some  lime,  but  who  on  earth 
OT  this  was  has   not  been   made   known 

down  to  our  day"  (Nestle  in  II  DH,  IV, 
6455).  Professor  Burkit  t  has  made  it  probable  t  hat 
t  he  tr  of  the  OT  was  the  work  of  Jews,  of  whom  there; 
was  a  colony  in  Edessa  about  the  commencement  of 
the  Christian  era  (Early  Eastern  Christianity,  71  ff). 
The  older  view  was  that  the  translators  were  Chris- 
tians, and  that  the  work  was  done  late  in  the  1st 
cent,  or  early  in  the  2<1.  The  OT  known  te>  the 
early  Syrian  church  was  substantially  that  e>f  the 
Palestinian  Jews.  It  contained  the  same  number 
e>f  books  but  it  arranged  the'in  in  a  different  order. 
First  there  was  the  Pent,  then  Job,  Je>sh,  Jgs,  1  and 
2  S,  1  and  2  K,  1  and  2  Ch,  Pss,  Prov,  Eccl,  Ruth, 
Cant,  Est,  Ezr,  Neh,  Isa  followed  by  the  Twelve 
Minor  Prophets,  Je'r  and  Lam,  Ezk,  anel  lastly  Dnl. 
Most  of  the  apocryphal  books  of  the  OT  are  found 


Syriac  Versions 
Syrians 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2884 


in  the  Syr,  anel  Iho  Rook  of  Sir  is  hold  to  have  been 
tr(I  from  (lie  Hob  and  not  from  the  LXX. 

Of  the   XT    attempt*  at    translation  must   have 
been  made  very  early,  and  among  the  ancient's  SS 
of  XT  Script uro  the  Syr  m  all  likeh- 
4    Svriac       hood  is  t he  earliest .     It  was  at  Antioch, 
NT  the  capital  of  Syria,  that  the  disciples 

of  Christ  were  first  called  Christians, 
and  it  seemed  natural  that  the  first  tr  of  the  Chris- 
tian Scriptures  should  have  been  made  there. 
tendency  of  recent  research,  however,  goes  to  show 
that  Eelessa,  the  literary  capital,  was  more  likely 
the  place. 

If  we  could  accept  the  somewhat  obscure  state- 
ment of  Eusebius  (HE,  IV,  xxii)  that  Hegesippus 
"made  some  quotations  from  the  Gospel  according 
to  the  Hebrews  and  from  the  Syr  G^eV'  we  should 
have  a  reference  to  a  Syr  XT  as  early  as  160-80  AD, 
the  time  of  that  Heb  Christian  writer.  One  thing 
is  certain,  that  the  earliest  XT  of  the  Syr  church 
lacked  not  only  the  Antilegomena— 2  I  et,  2  an. 
In  hide  and  Rev  —but  the  whole  of  the  Catholic 
Ep'p.  and  the  Apocalypse.  These  were  at  a  later 
date  tr'1  and  received  into  the  Syr  Canon  of  the  XI  , 
but  the  quotations  of  the  early  Syrian  Fathers  take 
no  notice  of  these  XT  books. 

From  the  5th  cent .,  however,  the  Pesh  containing 
both  OT  and  XT  has  been  used  in  its  present  form 
only  as  the  national  version  of  the  Syr  Scriptures. 
Tlii-  tr  of  the  XT  is  caret ul,  faithful  and  literal 
and  the  simplicity,  directness  and  transparency  ot 
the  style  are  admired  by  all  Syr  scholars  and  have 
earned  for  it  the  title  of  "Queen  of  the  VSS. 

It   is  in  the  Gospels,  however,  that  the  analogy 
between  the  Lat   Vulg  and  the  Syr  Vulg  can  In- 
established  by  evidence.     If  the  Pesh 
6    Old  is  the  result  of  a  revision  as  the  \  ulg 

Syriac  was,  t  hen  we  may  expect  to  find 

Texts  Syr   texts  answering   to   the  Old   Lat 

Such  texts  have  actually  been  found. 
Three  such  texts  have  been  recovered,  all  showing 
divergences  from  the  Pesh,  and  believed  by  compe- 
tent scholars  to  be.  anterior  to  it,  These  are  to 
take  them  in  the  order  of  their  recovery  in  modern 
times,  (1)  the  Curetonian  Syr,  (2)  the  Syr  of 
Tatian's  Diatessaron,  and  (3)  the;  Snmitic  Syr. 
They  are  known  respectively  as  »°,  ®,  »*,  the  J 
being  g">. 

(1)  Curetonian  Sj/rioc.— The  Curetonian  consists 
of  fragments  of  the  Gospels  brought   in  1842  from 
the  Xitrian  Desert  in  Egypt,  and  now  in  the  British 
Museum.     The  fragment  s  were  examined  by  Canon 
Cureton  of  Westminster  and  edited  by  him  in  1S5S. 
The   MS   from   which   the   fragments   have   come 
appears  to  belong  to  the  5th  cent      but  scholars 
believe  the  text  itself  to  be  as  old  as  the  2d  cent.     In 
tliis  recension  the  Gospel  according  to  St.  Matthew 
has  the  title  Evangelion  da-Mepharreshe,  which  will 
be  explained  in  the  next  section. 

(2)  Tatian's  "Diatessaron."— The  Diatessaron  of 
Tatian  is  the  work  which  Eusebius  ascribes  to  that 
heretic   calling  it  that  "combination  and  collection 
of  the  Gospels,  I  know  not  how,  to  which  he  gave 
the  title  Diatessaron."     It  is  the  earliest  harmony 
of  the  Four  Gospels  known  to  us      Its  existence  is 
amplv  attested  in  the  church  of  Syria,  but  it  had 
disappeared  for  centuries,  and  not  a  single  copy  ot 
the  Syr  work  survives. 

A  commentary  upon  it  by  Ephraem  the  Syrian, 
surviving  in  an  Armenian  tr,  was  issued  by  the 
Meehitarist  Fathers  at  Venice  in  183G,  and  after- 
ward trd  into  Lat,  Since  1S76  an  Arab,  tr  of  the 
Diatcxxiiron  itself  has  been  discovered;  and  it  has 
been  ascertained  that  the  Cod.  Fuldensis  of  the  Vulg 
represents  the  order  and  contents  of  the  Diatessaron. 
V  tr  from  the  Arab,  can  now  be  read  in  Eng.  in  Dr. 


J.  Ilamlyn  Hill's  The  Earliest  Life  of  Christ  Ever 
Compiled  from  the  Four  Gospels. 

Although  no  copy  of  the  Diatessaron  has  survived, 
the  general  features  of  Tatian's  Syr  work  can  be 
gathered  from  these  materials.  It  is  still  a  matter 
of  dispute  whether  Tatian  composed  his  Harmony 
out  of  a  Syr  version  already  made,  or  composed  it 
first  in  Gr  and  then  tr'1  it  into  Syr.  But  the  exist- 
ence and  widespread  use  of  a  Harmony,  combining 
in  one  all  four  Gospels,  from  such  an  early  period 
(172  AD),  enables  us  to  understand  the  iiile- Evan- 
gelion da-Mepharreshe.  It  means  "the  Gospel  of 
the  Separated,"  and  points  to  the  existence  of  single 
Gospels,  Mt,  Mk,  Lk,  Jn,  in  a  Syr  tr,  in  contra- 
distinction to  Tatian's  Harmony.  Theodoret, 
bishop  of  Cyrrhus  in  the  5th  cent,,  tells  how  he 
found  more  than  200  copies  of  the  Diatessaron  held 
in  honor  in  his  diocese  and  how  he  collected  them, 
and  put  them  out  of  the  way,  associated  as  they 
were  with  the  name  of  a  heretic,  and  substituted 
for  them  the  Gospels  of  the  four  evangelists  in 
their  separate  forms. 

(3)  The,  Sinaitic  Syriac.— In  1892  the  discovery 
of  the  3d  text,  known,  from  the  place  where  it  was 
found,  as  the  Sin  Syr,  comprising  the  four  Gospels 
nearly  entire,  heightened  the  interest  in  the  subject 
and  "increased    the    available;    material.     It    is    a 
ivilimpsest,   and   was  found   in   the  monastery   of 
St    Catherine  on  Mt,  Sinai  by  Mrs.  Agnes  S.  Lewis 
and  her  sister  Mrs.  Margaret  D.  Gibson.     The  text 
has  been   carefully   examined   and   many   scholars 
regard  it  as  representing  the  earliest  tr  into  Syr, 
and   reaching   back   into   the   2d   cent,     Like   the 
Curetonian,  it  is  an  example  of  the  Evangelion  da- 
Mepharreshe  as  distinguished  from  the  Harmony  of 

Tatian. 

(4)  Relation  to  Peshito.— The  discovery  of  these; 
texts  has  raised  many  questions  which  it  may  re- 
quire further  discovery  and  further  investigation  to 
answer  satisfactorily.     It  is  natural  to  ask  what   is 
the  relation  of  these  three  texts  to  the  Pesh       1 here 
are  still  scholars,  foremost  of  whom  is  G.  H.  Uwil- 
liam,    the   learned    editor   of    the   Oxford    Peshito 
(Tetraevangelium  sanctum,  Clarendon  Press,  1UU1), 
who  maintain  the  priority  of  the  Pesh  and  insist 
upon  its  claim  to  be  the  earliest  monument  of  Syrian 
Christianity.     But    the   progress   of    investigation 
into  Svr  Christian  lit,  points  distinctly  the  other 
wav     "From  an  exhaustive  study  of  the  quotations 
in  the  earliest  Syr  Fathers,  and,  in  particular,  of  the 
works  of  Ephraem  Syrus,   Professor  Burkitt  con- 
cludes that  the  Pesh  did  not  exist  in  the  4th  cent, 
He  finds  that  Ephraem  used  the  Diatessaron  in  the 
main  as  the  source  of  his  quotation,  although     his 
voluminous  writings  contain  some  clear  indications 
that  he  was  aware  of  the  existence  of  the  separate 
Gospels,  and  he  seems  occasionally  to  have  quoted 
from  them"  (Evangelion  da-Mepharreshe,  186).    Such 
quotations  as  are  found  in  other  extant  remains  of 
Syr  lit    before  the  5th  cent,  bear  a  greater  resem- 
blance to  the  readings  of  the  Curetonian  and  the 
Sinaitic  than  to  the  readings  of  the  Pesh.     Internal 
and  external  evidence  alike;  point  to  the  later  anel 
reviseel  character  of  the  Pesh. 

How  anel  where  and  by  whom  was  the  revision 
carried  out?     Dr.  Hort,  as  we  have  seen,  believed 

that   the   "revised      character   ot    u 
6.  Probable  Syr  Vulg  was  a  matter  of  certainty, 
Origin  of        and  Dr.  Westcott  and  he  connected  the, 
Peshito          authoritative  revision  which   resulted 

in  the  Pesh  with  their  own  theory, 
now  widely  adopted  by  textual  critics  of  a  revision 
of  the  Gr  text  made  at  Antioch  in  the  latter  part  of 
the  3d  cent,  or  early  in  the  4th.  The  recent  in- 
vestigations of  Professor  Burkitt  and  other  scholars 
have  made  it  probable  that  the  Pesh  was  the  work 
of  Rabbula,  bishop  of  Eelessa,  at  the  beginning  of 


2SS5 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Syriac  Versions 
Syrians 


the  oth  cent.  Of  this  revision,  as  of  the  revision 
which  plays  such  an  important  part  in  the  textual 
theory  of  West  cot  t  and  Hurt,  direct  evidence  is 
very  scanty,  in  the  former  case  altogether  wanting. 
Dr.  Burkitt,  however,  is  able  to  quote  words  of 
llabbula's  biographer  to  the  effect  that  "by  the 
wisdom  of  (lod  that  was  in  him  he  tr'1  the  NT  from 
Gr  into  Syr  because  of  its  variations,  exactly  as  it 
was."  This  may  well  be  an  account  of  the  first 
publication  of  the  Syr  Vulg,  the  Old  Syr  texts  then 
available  having  been  brought  by  this  revision  into 
greater  conformity  with  the  (Jr  text  current  at 
Antioch  in  the  beginning  of  the  5th  cent.  And 
Rabbiila  was  not  content  with  the  publication  of 
his  revision;  he  gave  orders  to  the  priests  and  the 
deacons  to  see  that  "in  all  the  churches  a  copy  of 
the  Evangelion  da-Mepharreshd  shall  be  kept  and 
read"  (ib  161  ff,  177  f).  It  is  very  remarkable  that 
before  the  time  of  Rabbula,  who  ruled  over  the 
Syr-speaking  churches  from  411  to  4)55,  there  is 
no  trace  of  the  Pesh,  and  that  after  his  t  ime  there  is 
scarcely  a  vest  ige  of  any  other  text.  lie  very  likely 
acted  in  the  manner  of  Theodoret  somewhat  later, 
pushing  the  newly  made  revision,  which  we  have 
reason  to  suppose  the  Pesh  to  have  been,  into 
prominence,  and  making  short  work  of  other  texts, 
of  which  only  the  Curetonian  and  the  Sinaitic 
are  known  to  have  survived  to  modern  times. 

The  Pesh  had  from  the  oth  cent,  onward  a  wide 
circulation  in  the  East,  and  was  accepted  and  hon- 
ored by  all  the  numerous  sects  of  the 

7.  History     greatly  divided  Syr  Christianity.     It 
of  Peshito      had  a  great   missionary  influence,  and 

the  Armenian  and  Georgian  VSS,  as 
well  as  the  Arab,  and  the  Pers,  owe  not  a  little  to  the 
Syr.  The  famous  Nestorian  tablet  of  Sing-an-fu 
witnesses  to  the  presence  of  the  Syr  Scriptures  in 
the  heart  of  China  in  the  7th  cent.  It  was  first 
brought  to  the  West  by  Moses  of  Mindin,  a  noted 
Syrian  ecclesiastic,  who  sought  a  patron  for  the 
work  of  printing  it  in  vain  in  Rome  arid  Venice, 
but  found  one  in  the.  Imperial  Chancellor  at  Vienna 
in  1555 — Albert  Widmanstadt.  He  undertook  the 
printing  of  the  NT,  and  the  emperor  bore  the  cost 
of  the  special  types  which  had  to  be  cast  for  its 
issue  in  Syr.  Immanuel  Tremellius,  the  con- 
verted Jew  whose  scholarship  was  so  valuable  to 
the  Kng.  reformers  and  divines,  made  use  of  it,  and 
in  lf>6(.)  issued  a  Syr  NT  in  Heb  letters.  In  1645 
the  (-I Hi i>  prince.pn  of  the  OT  was  prepared  by 
Gabriel  Sionita  for  the  Paris  Polyglot,  and  in 
16f>7  the  whole  Pesh  found  a  place  in  Walton's 
London  Polyglot.  For  long  the  best  edition  of  the 
Pesh  was  that  of  John  Leusden  and  Karl  Schaaf, 
and  it  is  still  quoted  under  the  symbol  Syr  Sch"-'if, 
or  SyrSlh.  The  critical  ed  of  the  Gospels  recently 
issued  by  Mr.  G.  II.  Gwilliam  at  the  Clarendon 
Press  is  based  upon  some1  50  MSS.  Considering  the 
revival  of  Syr  scholarship,  and  the  large  company 
of  workers  engaged  in  this  field,  we  may  expect 
further  contributions  of  a  similar  character  to  a 
new  and  complete  critical  edition  of  the  Pesh. 

(1)  The,  I'hiloxettian. — Besides  the  Pesh  there  an; 
other  trs  which  may  briefly  be  mentioned.     One  of 

these  is  the  Philoxenian,  made  by  Philo- 

8.  Other        xenus,  bishop  of  Mabug  (485-519)  on 
Translations  the  Euphrates,  from  the  Gr,  with  the 

help  of  his  Chorepiscopus  Polycarp. 
The  Pss  and  portions  of  Isa  are  also  found  in  this 
version;  and  it  is  interesting  as  having  contained  the 
Ant Uegomena — 2  Pet,  2  and  3  ,Jn,  and  Jude. 

(2)  The    Harclean. — Another    is    the    Harclean, 
which  is  a  revision  of  the  Philoxenian,  undertaken 
by  Thomas  of  llarkcl  in  Mesopotamia,  and  carried 
out  by  him  at  Alexandria  about  616,  with  the  help 
of  Gr  MSS  exhibiting  western  readings.     The  OT 
was  undertaken  at  the  same  time  by  Paul  of  Telia. 


The -NT  contains  the  whole;  of  the  books,  except 
Rev.  It  is  very  literal  in  its  renderings,  and  is 
supplied  with  an  elaborate  system  of  asterisks 
and  daggers  to  indicate;  the  variants  found  in  the 
MSS. 

(3)  The  Jerusalem  /S'yyrmc. — Mention  may  also 
be  made  of  a  Syr  version  of  the  NT  known  as  the 
Jerusalem  or  Palestinian  Syr,  believed  to  be  inde- 
pendent, and  not  derived  genealogically  from  those 
already  mentioned.  It  exists  in  a  Leclionary  of 
the  Gospels  in  the  Vatican,  but  two  fresh  MSS  of 
the  Lectionary  have  been  found  on  Mt.  Sinai  by 
Dr.  Rendel  Harris  and  Mrs.  Lewis,  with  fragments 
of  Acts  and  the  Pauline  Epp.  The  dialect  employed 
deviates  considerably  from  the  ordinary  Syr,  and 
the  Gr  text  underlying  it  has  many  peculiarities. 
It  alone  of  Syr  MSS  has  the  per/cope  aditllinn . 
In  Mt  27  17  the  robber  is  called  Jesus  Barabbas. 
Gregory  describes  10  MSS  (Tcxlkritik,  523  f). 

LITERATURE. — Nestle,  Kyrixr.he  Ut:l>rrxptzunnen,  PRE3, 
Si/riiic,  VSS,  II DB,  and  Intro  to  the  Textual  Criticism  of 
the  (,'r  XT,  9r,-l()(i;  G.  II.  (iwilliam,  Stiulia  liih/im  II 
1S90,  III,  1S91.  V,  19<«.  and  Tetrn<-r<nn,,'Unm  sanctum 
Surini-nm:  Scrivener,  Intro*.  (>~1O;  HurkiU.  "Kurly 
Eastern  Christianity,"  T<-.rtx  and  Ktudipx,  VII.  2  1-91, 
Evangelion  da-Mcpharrexhi.  I,  II,  and  "Syr  VSS  "  EB- 
(Iregory,  Textkritik,  479-52S. 

SYRIAN,  sir'i-an  (AV  SYRIACK),  LANGUAGE. 

See  SYRIAC. 

SYRIANS,  sir'i-anz  (2^5$,  'arum;  Svpoi,  Suroi; 
Assyr  Ara inn,  Aruinu,  Arimu): 

1.  Divisioii  of  Aram 

2.  A  Semitic   Race 
15.    Syria  and  Israel 

4.  Under  Nabathaeans  and  Pahnyrenes 

5.  A  Mixed  Race,  Semitic;  Type 
(i.   Religion 

The  terms  ''Syria"  and  ''Syrians"  are  used  in  two 
senses  in  the  Bible.  In  the  OT  they  are  uniformly 
"Aram,"  "Aramaean,"  while  in  the  NT  they  are  used 
in  a  wider  and  more  indefinite  sense  (Mt  4  24 • 
Acts  15  23;  18  IS;  Gal  1  21),  and  include  all  the 
dwellers  of  the  land  whether  Aramaeans  or  not. 

Aram  was  divided  into  several  districts,  com- 
prising, in  general,  the  region  to  the  E.  of  the 
Jordan,  but  extending  in  the  N.  over 

1.  Division    most  of  Northern  Syria,  or  from  the 
of  Aram         Orontes  eastward,  and  Northern  Meso- 
potamia.    This    latter    division    was 

called  Aram-naharairn — Aram  of  the  two  rivers,  i.e. 
Tigris  and  Euphrates— and  is  the  Nahrina  of  the 
Egyp  inscriptions.  It  is  also  called  Paddan-aram 
in  the  OT  (Gen  25  20)  or  field  of  Aram  (Hog  12  12). 
The  most  important  of  the  divisions  of  Aram  in  OT 
times  was  Aram-dammesek,  the  Syria  of  Damascus, 
which  sometimes  dominated  all  of  the  other  divi- 
sions lying  to  the  S.,  such  as  Rehob,  Tob,  Zobah, 
and  Maacah  (2  S  10  S).  Geshur  was  in  this 
region  and  should  be  reckoned  as  an  Aramaean  dis- 
trict (2  S  15  S). 

The  Aramaeans  were  of  Sem  stock  and  closely 

akin   to   the    He-brews.     Aram   is   called   a   son   of 

Shem    (Gen  10  22),    which    means    a 

2.  A  Sem-     descendant,    for    we   find    him    after- 
itic  Race        ward  called  a  grandson  of  Nahor,  the 

brother  of  Abraham  (Gen  22  21). 
The  Israelites  were  taught  to  say  "A  Syrian  [Ara- 
maean] ready  to  perish  was  my  father"  (Dt  26  5), 
and  the  kinship  of  the  Hebrews  and  Aramaeans  was 
further  cemented  by  the  marriage  of  Isaac;  with 
Rebekah,  the  sister  of  Laban  the  Syrian,  and  of 
Jacob  with  his  daughters  (Gen  24,  29).  The 
period  when  the  Aramaeans  first  appeared  in  Syria 
is  uncertain,  but  was  probably  later  than  2000  BC. 
When  Abraham  came  from  Haran,  Damascus  was 
already  occupied  (Gen  15  2),  and  this  may  have 
been  the  oldest  settlement  of  the  Aramaeans  in 


Syrians 
Tabernacle 


Till']  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Syria  proper,  although  it  is  not  mentioned  on  the 
monuments  until  long  after,  in  the  time  of 
Thothmes  III  of  Egypt,  about  147!)  BC.  The  Syri- 
ans were  generally  hostile  to  the  Hebrews  and  had 
wars  with  them  from  the  time  of  David  onward. 
David  subdued  them,  although  they  were  aided 
by  the  tribes  from  beyond  the,  Euphrates  (2  S  10), 
but  after  the  division  of  the  kingdom  they  often 
proved  too  strong  for  the  northern  Israelites. 

In  the  days  of  Omri  the  Syrians  of   Damascus 

brought  them  into  subjection,  but  Ahab  recovered 

all   the    lost    territory    and    Damascus 

3.  Syria          seems   to    have   been   subordinate   for 
and  Israel     a    time    (1   K  20  3t).      The   king   of 

Damascus  afterward  regained  the  su- 
premacy, as  appears  from  the  Assyr  records,  for  in 
the  war  of  Shalmaneser  11  with  the  peoples  of  Syria 
we  find  them  led  by  Ben-hadad  of  Damascus  and, 
among  his  subject  allies,  Ahab,  who  furnished 
2,000  chariots  and  10,000  men.  Ben-hadad  suc- 
ceeded in  uniting  most  of  the  petty  kingdoms  of 
Syria  together  in  opposition  to  Assyria,  but  could 
not  hold  them,  and  they  fell,  one,  after  another,  as 
well  as  Damascus  itself,  into  the  hands  of  the  great 
world-power.  Jeroboam  II  recovered  the  districts 
that  had  been  taken  from  Israel  by  the  Syrians  (2  K 
14  2~>),  but  this  was  only  a  temporary  success,  for 
Rezin  extended  his  authority  over  all  the,  East- 
Jordanic  region  as  far  as  Elath  on  the  Red  Sea 
(2  K  16  (V),  and  he  and  Pekah  joined  in  an  attack 
upon  Judah,  but  failed  on  account  of  the  Assyr 
advance  (2  K  16  f> -'.).).  Damascus  fell  into  the 
hands  of  Tiglath-pileser  in  732  BC,  and  the  power 
of  the  Syrians  was  completely  broken. 

The  Aramaic   peoples  became  prominent   again 

under  the  Nabathaeans  and   Palmyrcnes,  both  of 

whom    were    of    this    stock,    as    their 

4.  Under       language     is     clearly     Aramaic.     The 
Nabathae-     former  established  a  kingdom  extend- 
ans  and          ing   from    the    Euphrates   to   the   lied 
Palmyrenes  Sea,    their    capital   being    Petra,    and 

Damascus  was  under  their  control  in 
the  reign  of  their  king  Aretas  (el-llarith)  (2  Cor  11 
32).  This  kingdom  was  absorbed  by  Rome  in  the 
reign  of  Trajan.  The  Palmyrenes  did  not  come 
into  prominence  until  the  3d  cent.  AD,  but  became, 
for  a  short  time,  the  leading  power  in  Western  Asia. 
In  the  weakness  of  Rome,  under  Gallienus,  Odena- 
thus  and  his  still  more  distinguished  wife,  Zenobia, 
dominated  all  Syria,  and  the  latter  dared  to  dis- 
pute \vit  h  Aurelian  the  empire  of  the  East.  With 
her  fall  in  272  AD  the  power  of  the  Aramaeans  was 
extinguished  and  never  revived. 

The  Syrians  in  the  broader  sense  have  always  been 
a  mixed  people,  though  of  a  prevailing  Sem  type. 

The  earliest   layer  of  Sem  population 

5.  A  Mixed  was  the  Amorite  which  was  found  in 
Race  of  Syria  when  the  first  Bab  empire  ext  end- 
Semitic  ed  its  authority  over  the  land.    _  Later 
Type  appear    the    Canaanites,    Phoenicians, 

Jebusites,  Hivites  and  other  tribes, 
all  of  which  are  classed  together  as  descendants  of 
Canaan  in  (Jen  10,  but  their  Sem  character  in 
historic  times  is  undoubted.  The  Ilyksos  who  were 
driven  from  Egypt  to  Pal  and  Syria  were  of  the 
same  race,  as  would  appear  from  the  Egyp  records. 
The  Aramaeans  formed  the  next  wave  of  Sem  stock, 
but  there  were  others,  like  the  Hittites,  who  were 
not  Sem,  and  the  Philis,  whose  race  affinity  is  doubt- 
ful. The  Egyptians  occupied  the  country  for  a 


long  period,  but  did  not  contribute  much  to  the 
population.  Some  of  the  tribes  brought  in  by  the 
Assyrians  may  have  been  non-Sem,  but  most  of 
them  were  evidently  of  cognate  race  (2  K  17  24), 
and  the  racial  characteristics  of  the  Syrians  were 
not  changed.  When  Alexander  and  his  successors 
brought  in  the  (!r  and  Macedonian  elements  there 
was  a  decided  change  in  the  city  population,  but 
little  in  the  country  districts,  and  although  the 
(Jreeks  had  a  powerful  influence  upon  the  civiliza- 
tion of  the  country  the  Sem  type  overcame  the  ad- 
mixture of  Gr  blood  and  prevailed  in  the  country 
as  a  whole.  The  Romans  ruled  the  country  for 
centuries  and  established  a  number  of  military 
colonies,  but  they  did  not  affect  the  population  even 
as  much  as  the  (Jreeks.  When,  in  the  7th  cent. 
A  I),  the  Mohammedan  conquest  swept  oven-  Syria, 
it  brought  in  another  great  wave  of  pure  Sem  stock 
with  the  numerous  Arab  settlers,  who  tended  to 
obliterate  any  non-Sem  elements  that  might  have 
existed.  The  effects  of  the  influx  of  Europeans  in 
the  time  of  the  Crusades  were  not  sufficient  to 
produce  any  marked  change,  and  the  same  may 
be  said  of  all  later  invasions  of  Turks  and  Kurds. 

The  Syrians,  while  thus  a  mixed  people  to  a  large 
extent,  have  maintained  the  Sem  type,  but  they  have 
never,  in  all  their  history,  been  able  to  unite  politi- 
cally, and  have  always  been  divided,  when  inde- 
pendent. They  have  been,  during  the  greater  part 
of  their  history,  under  foreign  domination,  as  they 
still  are,  under  Turkish  rule. 

The  religion  of  the  Syrians  in  ancient  times  was 
undoubtedly  similar  to  that  of  the  Babylonians,  as 
is  shown  by  the  names  of  their  gods. 
6.  Religion  The  Aramaeans  worshipped  Hadadand 
Rimmon  (2  K  6  18),  sometimes  joined 
as  Iiadadrimmon  (Zee  12  11).  Baal,  or  Bel,  Ash- 
toreth,  or  Islitar,  were  almost  universally  wor- 
shipped, and  Nebu,  Agli-bol,  Melakh-bol,  At i  and 
ot  her  deit  ies  are  found  in  the  Palmyrene  inscript ions, 
showing  the  Bab  influence  in  their  cult.  This  was 
to  be  expected  from  the  known  prevalence  of  Bab 
culture  throughout  Western  Asia  for  centuries. 

II.     POKTKU 

SYROPHOENICIAN,  sl'ro-fn-nish'an,  sir'd- 
(Svpotjjoivicro-a,  Sltroplwinissd,  2upo4>oiviKi,o-o-a,  tittro- 
phoinikixxti;  WI1  has  variant  .S«m  1'hoinikixxa;  AV 
Syrophenician):  The  woman  from  the  borders  of 
Tyre  and  Sidon  whose  daughter  Jesus  healed  is 
described  as  "a  Greek,  a  Syrophoenician  by  race" 
(Mk  7  2C>),  and  again  as  "a  Canaanitish  woman" 
(Mt  15  22).  This  seems  to  mean  that  she  was 
of  Can.  descent,  a  native  of  the  Phoen  seaboard, 
Gr  in  religion,  and  probably  also  in  speech.  The 
names  Syria  and  Phoenicia  an;  both  applied  to  the 
same  region  in  Acts  21  2.3.  Syrophoenician  may 
therefore  denote  simply  an  inhabitant  of  these 
parts.  According  to  Strabo  (xvii.3),  this  district 
was  called  Syrophoenicia  to  distinguish  it  from  the 
North  African  Lybophoenieia.  W.  EWING 

SYRTIS,  sir'tis  (o-vpns,  siirlis):  RV  form  for 
"quicksands"  in  Acts  27  17.  These  sandbanks,  off 
the  northern  coast  of  Africa,  have  from  early  times 
been  regarded  as  a  source  of  danger  to  mariners. 
Virgil  refers  to  them  (Am.  iv.40  f).  In  Paul's  voyage, 
the  ship,  driven  by  a  tempestuous  wind,  Euraquilo, 
was  in  peril  of  being  cast  upon  them. 

SYZYGUS,  siz'i-gus.     See  SYXZYGUS. 


2SS7 


TIIK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Syrians 
Tabernacle 


TAANACH,  ta'a-nak  (?|:>n  ,  tn'anakh,  or  tj:"P  , 
t(fiidkh;  LXX  Tavdx,  Tatidch,  with  many  variants) : 
A  royal  city  of  the;  Canaanites,  the  king  of  which 
was  slain  by  Joshua  (12  21).  It  was  within  the 
boundaries  of  the  portion  of  Issachar,  but  was  ono 
of  the  cities  reckoned  to  Manasseh  (17  11;  1  Ch 
7  29),  and  assigned  to  the  Kohathite  Levites  (Josh 
21  2.")).  The  Canaanites  were  not  driven  out; 
only  at  a  later  time  they  were  set  to  taskwork 
(17  12  f;  Jgs  1  27  f).  Here  the  great  battle  was 
fought  when  the  defeat,  of  8isera  broke  the  power 
of  the  oppressor  Jabin  (Jgs  5  19).  It  was  in  the 
administrative  district  of  Baana  ben  Ahilud  (1  K 
4  12).  The  name  appears  in  the  list  of  Thothmes 
111  at  Karnak;  and  Shishak  records  his  plunder- 
ing of  Taanach  when  he  invaded  Pal  under  Jer- 
oboam I  (cf  1  K  14  25  f).  Onom  says  it  is  a 
very  large  village,  3  miles  from  Legio.  It  is  rep- 
resented by  the  modern  T<i\innck,  which  stands 
on  a  hill  at  the  southwestern  edge  of  the  plain  of 
Esdraelon.  IMegiddo  (Tell  el-Mu(exeUi»t)  lies  5 
miles  to  the  N.W.  These  two  places  are  almost 
invariably  named  together.  The  great  highway  for 
traffic,  commercial  and  military,  from  Babylon  and 
Egypt,  ran  between  them.  They  were  therefore 
of  high  strategic  importance.  Excavations  were 
recently  conducted  on  the  site  by  Professor  Sellin, 
and  a  scries  of  valuable  and  deeply  interesting 
discoveries  were  made1,  shedding  light  upon  the 
social  and  religious  life  and  practices  of  the  inhabit- 
ants down  to  the  1st  cent.  BC,  through  a  period  of 
nearly  2,000  years.  The  Canaanites  were  the 
earliest  occupants.  In  accordance  with  Bib.  his- 
tory, "there  is  no  evidence  of  a  break  or  abrupt 
change  in  the  civilization  between  the  Canaanite 
and  the  Israelite  occupation  of  Taanach;  the 
excavations  show  rather  gradual  development.  The 
Canaanitcs  will  have  gradually  assimilated  the 
Israelites  drawn  to  them  from  the  villages  in  the 
plain"  (Driver,  Schweich  Led,  1908,  84).  In  the 
work  just  cited  Driver  gives  an  admirable  summary 
of  the  results  obtained  by  Professor  Sellin.  In 
his  book  on  the  Religion  of  Ancient  Pal,  Professor 
Stanley  A.  Cook  has  shown,  in  short  compass, 
what  excellent  use  may  be  made  of  the  results  thus 
furnished.  W.  EWING 

TAANATH-SHILOH,  ta'a-nath-shl'ld  (firxn 
rfbljj ,  la'anuth  shiloh;  B,  0T|vacrd.  Kal  ZeXX-ncra, 
Thcnawi  l:<ii  Xcllexti,  A,  TSivaGcrnXco,  Tenathsclo) : 
A  town  on  the  border  of  the  territory  of  Ephraim 
named  between  Michmethath  and  Janoah  (Josh 
16  G).  According  to  Onom  (s.v.  "Thena")  it 
lay  about  10  Rom  miles  E.  of  Neapolis,  on  the  road 
to  t  he  Jordan.  Ptolemy  speaks  of  Thena,  probably 
the  same  place,  as  a  town  in  Samaria  (v.lG.5).  It 
may  be  identified  with  7V»«,  a  village  about  7 
miles  S.E.  of  Xablus.  Yanun,  the  ancient  Janoah, 
lies  2  miles  to  the  S.  A  Rom  road  from  Neapolis 
to  the  Jordan  valley  passed  this  way.  At  7V/m 
there  are  "foundations,  caves,  cisterns  and  rock- 
cut  tombs"  (I'KFM,  II,  245).  This  identification 
being  quite  satisfactory,  the  Talmudic  notion  that 
Taanath-shiloh  was  the  same  place  as  Shiloh  may 
be  dismissed  (Talm  Jerus,  Meghillah,  i). 

W.  EWING 

TABAOTH,  TABBAOTH,  ta-ba'oth,  tab'a-dth 
(rH"2::,  tabbu'uth;  TapacoO,  Tabaoth,  A,  Ta(3cG6, 
Tubotli):  Name  of  a  family  of  temple-servants 
(1  Esd  5  29)  =  "T abbaoth"  (Heb  tabbtfdth)  of  Ezr 
2  43;  Neh  7  46;  perhaps  called  after  the  name  of 
a  place;  cf  TABBATH. 


TABBATH,  tab'ath  (PSi:,  l.nbbalh;  B,  TapaO 
Tahdt/i,  A,  ra(3a0,  (,'uhiilh);  \  place  named  after 
Abel-meholah  in  the  account  of  the  Midianite 
flight  before  Cideon  (Jgs  7  23).  It  must  there- 
fore have  been  a  place  in  the  .Ionian  valley  to  the 
E.  of  Beth-shan.  No  trace  of  the  name  has  yet 
been  recovered. 

TABEEL,  ta'bn-el:  A  name  meaning  "good  is 
God,"  borne  by  two  persons  in  the  ()T  (Isa  7  G, 
AV  "Tabeal"). 

(1)  The  father  of  the  man  whom  the  kings  of 
Israel  and   Damascus  planned   to  place  upon   the 
throne  of  Judah  (Isa  7  G).     The  form  of  the  name 
•^2w  ,  tabh''el,  suggests  that  he  was  a  Syrian;    his 
son  evidently  was  a  tool  of  Rezin,  king  of  Damascus. 
The  name  is  vocalized  so  as  to  read  Tabenl  ("X2y  , 
tablr'al),  which  might  be  tr'1  "good  for  nothing," 
though  some  explain  it  as  a  pausal  form,  with  the 
ordinary  meaning.     The;  change,  probably  due  to  a 
desire  to  express  contempt,  is  very  slight  in  Heb. 

(2)  A  Pers  official  in  Samaria  (b^E  ,   f,abh>'el) 
(Ezr  4  7).     All  that  is  known  of  him  is  that  he 
joined   with  other  officials  in   sending   a  letter  to 
Artaxerxes  for  the  purpose  of  hindering  the  rebuild- 
ing of  the  walls  of  Jerus.  1(\  C>  EISKLEN 

TABELLIUS,  ta-bel'i-us  (Tape'XXios,  Tabellios): 
One  of  the  Pers  officials  in  Samaria  who  wrote  a 
letter  to  Artaxerxes  which  caused  the  rebuilding 
of  Jerus  to  be  stopped  for  a  time  (1  Esd  2  10)  = 
"Tabeel"  of  Ezr  4  7. 

TABER,  ta'ber  (SEP.,  taphnph,  "to  strike  a 
timbrel"  [Ps  68  25]):  The  word  is  used  only  once 
in  AV,  viz.  in  the  exceedingly  graphic  account  of 
the  capture  of  Nineveh  given  in  Nah  2  7.  The 
queen  (perhaps  the  city  personified)  is  dishonored 
and  led  into  ignominious  captivity,  followed  by  a 
mourning  retinue  of  "maids  of  honour"  who  taber 
upon,  that  is,  beat  violently,  their  breasts.  Such 
drumming  on  the  breasts  was  a  gesture  indicative 
of  great  grief  (Lk  18  3). 

TABERAH,  tab'6-ra,  ta-be'ra  (rnynn  ,  taWerah, 
"burning"):  A  wilderness  cam])  of  the  Israelites, 
the  site  of  which  is  unidentified.  Here,  it  is  re- 
corded, the  people  murmured  against  Jch,  who 
destroyed  many  of  them  by  tire.  This  is  the  origin 
of  the"  name  (Nu  11  3;  Dt  9  22). 

TABERNACLE,  tab'er-na-k'l    (""'"£.  bni?  ,  'dhel 
md*e<lh,  "tent  of  meeting,"  "JSTTTQ  ,  tnislikun,  "dwell- 
o-KT]vif|, skcne): 


ing 


A.     STHUCTUHK  AND  HISTORY 


I.        I  XTHOnrrTOKY 

1.  Earlier  "Tent  of  Meeting" 

2.  A  Staw  in  Revelation 
:5.   The  Tabernacle  Proper 

II.      STHIVTV  uv: 

1.  The  Enclosure  or  Court 

2.  Structure,     Divisions    and     Furniture    of    the 
Tabernacle 

(1)  Coverings  of  the  Tabernacle 

(a)  Tabernacle  Covering  Proper 

(b)  Tent  Covering 

(r)    Protective  Covering 

(2)  Framework  and  Divisions  of  the  Tabernacle 
Arrangement  of  Coverings 

(.'?)    Furniture  of  the  Tabernacle', 
(</)   The  Table  of  Shevbrcad 
(h)   The  Candlestick 
(r)   The  Altar  of  Incense 


Tabernacle 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


28S8 


III.      HISTORY 

1.  Removal  from  Sinai 

2.  Sojourn  at  Kadesh 

3.  Settlement  in  Canaan 

4.  Destruction  of  shiloli 

5.  Dclocalization  of  Worship 
(i.    Nob  and  (libcon 

7.    Restoration  of  the  Ark 
X.   The  Two  Tabernacles 
IV.      SYMBOLISM 

1.  NT   References 

2.  (lod's  Dwelling  with  Man 
:<.   Symbolism  of  Furniture 

LITERATURE 

/.  Introductory. — Altars  sacred  to  Jeh  were 
earlier  than  sacred  buildings.  Abraham  built 
such  detached  altars  at  the  Terebinth  of  Moreh 
((Jen  12  (>.7),  and  again  between  Beth-el  and  Ai 
((Jen  12  S).  Though  he  built  altars  in  more  places 
than  one,  his  conception  of  (lod  was  already  mono- 
theistic. The  "Judge  of  all  the  earth"  ((Jen  18  2f>) 
was  no  tribal  deity.  This  monotheistic  ideal  was 
embodied  and  proclaimed  in  the  tabernacle  and  in 
the  subsequent,  temples  of  which  the  tabernacle 
was  the  prototype. 


n 
m 

tion 


instincts  and  surroundings  were  by  no  means  monotheis- 

tic.    It  was  necessary  that  their  education  should  begin 

with  some  sort  of  concession   to   existing 

2.  A  Stage     ideas.     They  were  not  yet,  nor  for   long 

afterward,   capable   of  the  conception  of 
a    (-od    wh()    (lwclleth    not    in    temples 

made  with  hands.  So  an  altar  and  a  tent 
were  given  them;  but  in  the  fact  that 
this  habitation  of  (lod  was  not  fixed  to  one  spot,  but 
was  removed  from  place  to  place  in  the  nomad  lift; 
of  the  Israelites,  they  had  a  persistent  education 
leading  them  away  from  the  idea  of  local  and  tribal 
deities. 

The  tabernacle  proper  is  that  of  which  tin;  account 

is  given  in  Ex  25-27;    30-31;    35-40,   with   addi- 

tional  details   in    Nu  3  2f>  if;     4  4  ft'; 

3.  The  7  1  IT.     The  central  idea  of  the  st  rue- 
Tabernacle    lure   is    given    in    the    words,    "Make 
Proper  me    a    sanctuary,    that    I   may   dwell 

among  them"  (Ex  25  8).  It  was  the 
dwelling-place  of  the  holy  Jeh  in  the  midst  of  His 
people;  also  the  place  of  His  "meeting"  with  them 
(ver  22).  The  first  of  these  ideas  is  expressed  in 
the  name  inixhkan;  the,  second  in  the  name  'uhel 
•tiirfcdh  (it  is  a  puz/ling  fact  for  the  critics  that  in 


LATEKM.  Vn:\v  OK  T  \  HKUNACLE,  ACCOHDIXO  TO  KKNNKDY. 


1.  Earlier 
"Tent  of 
Meeting" 


The  first  step  toward  a  habitation  for  the  Deity 
worshipped  at  the  altar  was  taken  at  Sinai,  when 
Moses  builded  not  only  "an  altar  under 
(lie  mount,"  but  "12  pillars,  according 
to  the  12  tribes  of  Israel"  (Ex  24  4). 
There  is  no  recorded  command  to  this 
effect,  and  there  was  as  yet  no  sepa- 
rated priesthood,  and  sacrifices  were  offered  by 
"young  men  of  the  children  of  Israel"  (ver  f>);  but 
already  the1  need  of  a  separated  structure  was  becom- 
ing evident.  Later,  but  still  at  Sinai,  after  the  sin 
of  the  golden  calf,  Moses  is  stated  to  have  pitched 
"the  tent"  (as  if  well  known:  the  tense,  is  fre- 
quentative, "used  to  take  the  tent  and  to  pitch  it") 
"without  the  camp,  afar  off."  and  to  have  called  it, 
"the  tent  of  meeting,"  a  term  often  met  with  after- 
ward (Ex  33  7  ff).  This  "tent"  was  not  yet  the; 
tabernacle  proper,  but  served  an  interim  purpose. 
The  ark  was  not  yet  made;  a  priesthood  was  not 
yet  appointed;  it  was  "without  the  camp";  Joshua 
was  the  sole  minister  (ver  11).  It  was  a  simple 
place  of  revelation  and  of  the  meeting  of  the  people 
with  Jeh  (vs  7.9-11).  Critics,  on  the  other  hand, 
identifying  this  "tent"  with  that  in  Nu  11  16  ff; 
12  4  if;  Dt  31  14. lf>  (ascribed  to  source  E), 
regard  it  as  the  primitive  tent  of  the  wanderings,  and 
on  the  ground  of  these  differences  from  the  taber- 
nacle, described  later  (in  1'J,  deny  the  historicity  of 
the  latter.  On  this  see  below  under  B,  4,  (5). 

No  doubt  tliis  localization  of  the  shrine  of  Jeh  afforded 
occasion  for  a  possible  misconception  of  Jeh  as  a  tribal 
Deity.  We  must  remember  that  here  and  throughout 
we  have  to  do  with  the  education  of  a  people  whoso 


Ex  25 — 27  19  only  mixhkan  is  used;  in  chs  28- 
31  only  'dhel  mo*c<lh;  in  other  sections  the  names 
intermingle).  The  tabernacle  was  built  as  became 
such  a  structure,  according  to  the  "pattern"  shown 
to  Moses  in  the  mount  (25  9.40;  26  M;  cf  Acts 
7  44;  He  8  2.")).  The  modern  critical  school 
regards  this  whole  description  of  the  tabernacle  as 
an  "ideal"  construction — a  projection  backward 
by  post -exilian  imagination  of  the  ideas  and  dimen- 
sions of  the  Temple  of  Solomon,  the  measurement  a 
of  the  latter  being  throughout  halved.  Against 
this  violent  assumption,  however,  many  things 
speak.  See  below  under  B. 

//.  Structure  of  the  Tabernacle. — The  ground 
plan  of  the  Mosaic  tabernacle  (with  its  divisions, 
courts,  furniture,  etc)  can  be  made  out  with  reason- 
able certainty.  As  respects  the  actual  construction, 
knotty  problems  remain,  in  regard  to  which  the 
most  diverse  opinions  prevail.  Doubt  rests  also 
on  the  precise  measurement  by  cubits  (see  Crurr; 
for  a  special  theory,  see  W.  S.  Caldecott,  The  Taber- 
nacle; Us  Ilistory  and  Structure).  For  simplifica- 
tion the  cubit  is  taken  in  this  art.  as  roughly  equiva- 
lent to  18  in. 

A  first  weighty  question  relates  to  the  shape  of 
the  tabernacle.  The  conventional  and  still  cus- 
tomary conception  (Keil,  Biihr,  A.  R.  S.  Kennedy 
in  HDB,  etc)  represents  it  as  an  oblong,  flat-roofed 
structure,  the  rich  coverings,  over  the  top,  hanging 
down  on  either  side  and  at  the  back — not  unlike, 
to  use  a  figure  sometimes  employed,  a  huge  coffin 
with  a  pall  thrown  over  it.  Nothing  could  be  less 


THIO  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tabernacle 


like  a  "tent,"  and  the  difficulty  at,  once  presents 
itself  of  how,  in  such  a  structure,  "sagging  of  the 
roof  was  to  be  prevented.  Mr.  J.  Fergusson,  in  his 
art.  "Temple"  in  Smith's  Dli,  accordingly,  advanced 
the  other  conception  that  the  structure  was  essen- 
tially that  of  a  tent,  with  ridge-pole,  sloping  roof, 
and  other  appurtenances  of  such  an  erection.  He 
plausibly,  though  not  with  entire  success,  sought 
to  show  how  this  construction  answered  accurately 
to  the  measurements  and  other  requirements  of  the 
text  (e.g.  the  mention  of  "pins  of  the  tabernacle," 
Ex  35  18).  With  slight  modification  this  view  here 
commends  itself  as  having  most  in  its  favor. 

To  avoid  the  difficulty  of  the  ordinary  view,  that 
the  coverings,  hanging  down  oulxiila  the  frame- 
work, are  unseen  from  within,  except  on  the  roof, 
it  has  sometimes  been  argued  that  the  tapestry 
covering  hung  down,  not  outside,  but  -tnxi'de,  the 
tabernacle  (Keil,  Hiilir,  etc).  It  is  generally  felt 
that  this  arrangement  is  inadmissible.  A  newer 
and  more  ingenious  theory  is  that  propounded  by 
A.  R.  S.  Kennedy  in  his  art.  "Tabernacle"  in  // l)H. 
It  is  that  the  "boards"  constituting  the  framework 
of  the  tabernacle  were,  not  solid  planks,  but  really 
open  "frames,"  through  which  the  finely  wrought 
covering  could  be  seen  from  within.  There  is 
much  that  is  fascinating  in  this  theory,  if  the 
initial  assumption  of  the  flat  roof  is  granted,  but 
it  cannot  be  regarded  as  being  yet  satisfactorily 
made  out.  Professor  Kennedy  argues  from  the1 
excessive  weight  of  the  solid  "boards."  It  might 
be  replied:  In  a  purely  "ideal"  structure  such  as 
he  supposes  this  to  be,  what  does  the  weight 
matter?  The  "boards,"  however,  need  not  have 
been  so  thick  or  heavy  as  he  represents. 

In  the  minuter  details  of  construction  yet  greater 
diversity  of  opinion  obtains,  and  imagination  is 
often  allowed  a  freedom  of  exercise  incompatible 
with  the  sober  descriptions  of  the  text. 

The  attempt  at  reconstruction  of  the  taber- 
nacle begins  naturally  with  the  "court"  (hager] 
or  outer  inclosure  in  which  the  taber- 
1.  Inclosure  nacle  stood  (see  COURT  OF  SAXC- 
or  Court  TUARY).  The  description  is  given 
in  Ex  27  0-18;  38  9-20.  The  court 
is  to  be  conceived  of  as  an  inclosed  space  of  100 
cubits  (150  ft.)  in  length,  and  50  cubits  (75  ft.) 
in  breadth,  its  sides  formed  (with  special  arrange- 
ment for  the  entrance)  by  "hangings"  or  curtains 
(krl<~£ini)  of  "fine  twined  linen,"  5  cubits  (7^  ft.)  in 
height,  supported  by  pillars  of  brass  (bronze) 
5  cubits  apart,  to  which  the  hangings  were  attached 
by  "hooks"  and  "fillets"  of  silver.  It  thus  con- 
sisted of  two  squares  of  50  cubits  each,  in  the  an- 
terior of  which  (the  easterly)  stood  the  "altar  of 
burnt-offering"  (see  ALTAR),  and  the  "laver"  (see 
LAVER),  and  in  the  posterior  (the  westerly)  the 
tabernacle  itself.  From  Ex  30  17-21  we  learn  that 
the  laver — a  large  (bronze)  vessel  for  the  ablutions 
of  the  priests — stood  between  the  altar  and  the 
tabernacle  (ver  IS).  The  pillars  were  GO  in  number, 
20  being  reckoned  to  the  longer  sides  (X.  and  S.), 
and  10  each  to  the  shorter  (E.  and  \\ .).  The  pillars 
were  set  in  "sockets"  or  bases  ('edheri)  of  brass 
(bronze),  and  had  "capitals"  (AV  and  ERV  "chapi- 
ters") overlaid  with  silver  (38  17).  The  "fillets" 
are  here,  as  usually,  regarded  as  silver  rods  con- 
necting the  pillars;  some,  however,  as  Ewald, 
Dillmann,  Kennedy,  take  the  "fillet"  to  be  an  orna- 
mental band  round  the  base  of  the  capital.  On 
the  eastern  side  was  the  "gate"  or  entrance.  This 
was  formed  by  a  "screen"  (masakh)  20  cubits 
(30  ft.)  in  breadth,  likewise  of  fine  twined  linen,  but 
distinguished  from  the  other  (white)  hangings  by 
being  embroidered  in  "blue,  and  purple,  and  .scarlet" 
(see  EAST  GATE).  The  hangings  on  either  side  of 
the  "gate"  were  15  cubits  in  breadth.  The  10 


pillars  of  the  east  side  are  distributed — 4  to  the  en- 
trance screen,  3  on  either  side  to  the  hangings. 
The  enumeration  creates  some  difficulty  till  it  is 
remembered  that  in  the  reckoning  round  the  court 
no  pillar  is  counted  twice,  and  that  the  corner 
pillars  and  those  on  either  .side  of  the  entrance 

w 


B 


Ground  Plan,  according  to  Keil. 

A,  Tho  nwellinu'-I'liiro 

<;,  the  frainevv.irk;    l>,  tli.>  pillars  ..f   the  entrance;    ,;  tho  hi.ly  place:  il, 
tin-  tahle  of  .shinvl>n-;i<l:  i\  the  candlestick  :  f.  I  he  altar  .if  incense;    y.lhe 
veil  and  pillars;  //,  the  H..lv  ,.f  H..lies;  i,  the  ark  and  mercy-seat. 
/.',    Tho  Court 

A,  the  pillars  of  thoe..urt:    /.the  entrance  curtain  and  pillars;    m,  the 
altar. if  burnt  nflVring;  n,  the  laver. 

had  each  to  do  a  double  duty.  The  reckoning 
is  really  by  the  5-cubit  spaces  between  the  pillars. 
Mention  is  made  (27  19;  38  20)  of  the  "pins" 
of  the  court,  as  well  as  of  the  tabernacle,  by  means 
of  which,  in  the  former  case,  the  pillars  were  held 
in  place.  These  also  were  of  brass  (bronze). 

In     the     inner     of     the     two    squares     of     the 

court    was   reared    the    tabernacle — a    rectangular 

oblong    structure,    30    cubits    (45    ft.) 

2.  Struc-        long    and    10    cubits    (15    ft.)    broad, 

ture,  Di-        divided  into  two  parts,  a  holy  and  a 

visions  and    most  holy  (26  33).     Attention  has  to 

Furniture       be  given  here  (1)  to  the  coverings  of 

the  tabernacle,    (2)  to  its  framework 

and  divisions,  and  (3)  to  its  furniture. 

(1)  Coverings  of  the  tabernacle,  (Ex  26  1-1 4; 
36  8-19). — The  wooden  framework  of  the  taber- 
nacle to  be  afterward  described  had  3  coverings — 
one,  the  immediate  covering  of  the  tabernacle  or 
"dwelling,"  called  by  the  same  name,  mishkan 
(26  1.0);  a  second,  the  "tent"  covering  of  goats' 
hair;  and  a  third,  a  protective  covering  of  rams' 
and  seal-  (or  porpoise-)  skins,  cast  over  the  whole. 


Tabernacle 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2890 


(a)  The  covering  of  the  tabernacle  proper  (26  1-G) 
consisted  of  10  curtains  (ifrl'oth,  lit.  "breadth") 
of  fine  twined  linen,  beautifully  woven  with  blue;, 
and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  with  figures  of  cheru- 
bim. The  10  curtains,  each  28  cubits  long  and 
4  cubits  broad,  were;  joined  together  in  sets  of  5  to 
form  2  large  curtains,  which  again  were  fastened 
by  50  loops  and  clasps  (AV  "ladies")  of  gold,  so  as 
to  make  a  single  great  curtain  -10  cubits  ((>()  ft.)  long, 
and  28  cubits  (42  ft.)  broad,  (b)  The  ''tent" 
covering  (vs  7-13)  was  formed  by  11  curtains  of 
goats'  hair,  the  length  in  this  case  being  30  cubits, 
and  the  breadth  4  cubits.  These  were  joined  in 
sets  of  5  and  ti  curtains,  and  as  before  the  two  divi- 
sions were  coupled  by  50  loops  and  clasps  (this  time 
of  bronze),  into  one  great  curtain  of  44  cubits  (GO 
ft.)  in  length  and  30  cubits  (45  ft.)  in  breadth — an 
excess  of  4  cubits  in  length  und  2  in  breadth  over 
the  fine  tabernacle  curtain.  (<••)  Finally,  for  pur- 
poses of  protection,  coverings  were  ordered  to  be 
made  (ver  14)  for  the  "tent"  of  rams'  skins  dyed 
red,  and  of  seal-  or  porpoise-skins  (KV  "badgers' 
skins").  The  arrangement  of  the  coverings  is  con- 
sidered below. 

(2)  The.  framework  of  the  tabernacle  (Ex  26  15- 
37;  36  20-38)  was,  as  ordinarily  understood, 
composed  of  upright  "boards"  of  acacia  wood, 
forming  3  sides  of  the  oblong  structure,  the  front 
being  closed  by  an  embroidered  "screen,"  depend- 
ing from  5  pillars  (26  30.37;  see  below).  These 
boards,  48  in  number  (20  each  for  the  north  and 
south  sides,  and  8  for  the  west  side),  were  10  cubits 
(15  ft.)  in  height,  and  1£  cubit  s  (2  ft.  3  in.)  in  breadt  h 
(the  thickness  is  not  given),  and  were  overlaid  with 
gold.  They  were  set  by  means  of  "tenons"  (lit. 
"hands"),  or  projections  tit  the  foot,  2  for  each 
board,  in  90  silver  "sockets,"  or  bases  ("a  talent 
for  a  socket,"  38  27).  In  the  boards  were  "rings" 
of  gold,  through  which  were  passed  3  horizontal 
"bars,"  to  hold  the  parts  together — the  middle  bar, 
apparently,  on  the  long  sides,  extending  from  end 
to  end  (26  28),  the  upper  and  lower  bars  being 
divided  in  the  center  (5  bars  in  all  on  each  side). 
The  bars,  like  the  boards,  wen;  overlaid  with  gold. 
Some  obscurity  rests  on  the  arrangement  at  the 
back:  0  of  the  boards  were  of  the  usual  breadth 
(=  <)  cubits),  but  the  2  corner  boards  appear  to  have 
made  up  only  a  cubit  between  them  (vs  22-24). 
Notice  has  already  been  taken  of  the  theory  (Ken- 
nedy, art.  "Tabernacle,"  111)11}  that  the  so-called 
''boards"  were  not  really  such,  but  were  open 
"frames,"  the  2  uprights  of  which,  joined  by  cross- 
pieces,  are  the  "tenons"  of  the  text.  It  seems 
unlikely,  if  this  was  meant,  that  it _ should  not  be 
more  distinctly  explained.  The  inclosurc  thus 
constructed  was  next  divided  into  2  apartments, 
separated  by  a  "veil,"  which  hung  from  4  pillars 
overlaid  with  gold  and  resting  in  silver  sockets. 
Like  the  tabernacle-covering,  the  veil  was  beauti- 
fully woven  with  blue,  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  with 
figures  of  cherubim  (vs  31.32;  see  VKIL).  The 
outer  of  these  chambers,  or  "holy  place,"  was, 
as  usually  computed,  20  cubits  long  by  10  broad; 
the  inner,  or  "most  holy  place,"  was  10  cubits 
square.  The  "door  of  the  tent"  (ver  36)  was  formed, 
as  already  stated,  by  a  "screen,"  embroidered  with 
the  above  colors,  and  depending  from  5  pillars  in 
bronze  sockets.  Here  also  the  hooks  were  of  gold, 
and  the  pillars  and  their  capitals  overlaid  with 
gold  (36  38). 

Preference  has  already  been  expressed  for  Mr.  Fergus- 
son's  idea  that  the  tabernacle  was  not  flat-roofed,  the 
curtains  being  cast  over  it  like  drapery,  but  was  tent- 
like  in  shape,  with  ridge-pole,  and  a  sloping  roof,  raising 
the  total  height  to  15  cubits.  Passing  over  the  ridge 
pole,  and  descending  at  an  angle,  14  cubits  on  either 
side,  the  inner  curtain  would  extend  5  cubits  beyond 
the  walls  of  the  tabernacle,  making  an  awning  of  that 


width  N.  and  S.,  while  the  goats'-hair  covering  above  it, 
2  cubits  wider,  would  hang  below  it  a  cubit  on  either  side. 
The  whole  would  be  held  in  position  by  ropes  secured 
by  bronze  tent-pins  to  the  ground  (27  1!);  38  31). 
The  scheme  has  obvious  advantages  in  that  it  preserves 
the  idea  of  a  "tent,"  conforms  to  the  principal  measure- 
ments, removes  the  difficulty  of  "sagging"  on  the  (flat) 
roof,  and  permits  of  the  golden  boards,  bars  and  rings,  oil 


Construction  of  Tabernacle,  according  to  Fergusson. 

the  outside,  and  of  the  finely  wrought  tapestry,  on  tho 
inside,  being  seen  (Professor  Kennedy  provides  for  the 
latter  by  his  "frames,"  through  which  the  curtain  would 
be  visible).  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  not  to  bo  concealed 
that  tho  construction  proposed  presents  several  serious 
difficulties.  The  silence  of  the  text  about  a  ridge-pole, 
supporting  pillars,  and  other  requisites  of  Mr.  Fergusson's 
scheme  (his  suggestion  that  "the  middle  liar"  of  26  2S 
may  be  the  ridge-pole  is  quite  untenable),  may  be  got 
over  by  assuming  that  these;  parts  are  taken  for  granted 
as  understood  in  tent-construction.  But  this  does  not 
apply  to  other  adjustments,  esp.  those  connected  with 
tho,  back  and  front  of  the  tabernacle;.  It  was  seen  above 
t  hat  the  inner  covering  was  40  cubits  in  length,  while,  the 
tabernacle-structure  wa»s  30  cubits.  I  low  is  this  excess 
of  10  cubits  iii  the  tapestry-covering  dealt  with?  Mr. 
Fergusson,  dividing  equally,  supposes  a  porch  of  5  cubits 
at  the  front,  and  a  space  of  5  cubits  also  behind,  with 
hypothetical  pillars.  The  text,  however,  is  explicit  that 
the  veil  dividing  the  holy  from  the  most  holy  place  was 
hung  "under  the  clasps"  (26  33),  i.e.  on  this  hypothesis, 
midway  in  the  structure,  or  15  cubits  from  either  end. 
Either,  then,  (1)  the  idea  must  be  abandoned  that  the 
holy  place  was  twice  tho  length  of  tho  Holy  of  Holies 
(20X10;  it  is  to  be  observed  that  tho  text  does  not 
state  the  proportions,  which  are  inferred  from  those  of 
Solomon's  Temple),  or  (2)  Mr.  Fergusson's  arrangement 
must  be  given  up,  and  the  division  of  the  curtain  bo 
moved  back  5  cubits,  depriving  him  of  his  curtain  for  the 
porch,  and  leaving  10  cubits  to  be  disposed  of  in  tho 
rear-.  Another  difficulty  is  connected  with  the  porch 
itself.  No  clear  indication  of  such  a  porch  is  given  in 
the  text,  while  the  5  pillars  "for  the  screen"  (ver  37) 
are  most  naturally  taken  to  bo,  like  the  latter,  at  tho 
immediate  entrance;  of  tho  tabernacle.  Mr.  Fergusson, 
on  the  other  hand,  finds  it  necessary  to  separate  pillars 
and  screen,  and  to  place  the  pillars  5  cubits  farther  in 
front.  He  is  right,  however,  in  saying  that  the  5th 
pillar  naturally  suggests  a  ridge-pole;  in  his  favor  also  is 
tho  fact  that  the  extra  breadth  of  tho  overlying  tent- 
covering  was  to  hang  down,  2  cubits  at  the  front,  and 
2  cubits  at  tho  back  of  the  tabernacle  (26  9.12).  It  is 
possible  that  there  was  a  special  disposition  of  the  inner 
curtain — that  belonging  peculiarly  to  tho  "  dwelling  "- 
according  to  which  its  "clasps"  lay  above  tho  "veil"  of 
the  Holy  of  Holies  (20  cubits  from  the  entrance),  and 
its  hinder  folds  closed  the  aperture  at  the  rear  which 
otherwise  would  have  admitted  light  into  the  secrecy 
of  the  shrine.  But  constructions  of  this  kind  must  ever 
remain  more  or  less  conjectural. 

The  measurements  in  the  above  reckoning  are  internal. 
Dr.  Kennedy  disputes  this,  but  the  analogy  of  the  temple 
is  against  his  view. 

(3)  The  fur  nil  ure  of  (he  sanctuary  is  described 
in  Ex  25  10-40  (ark,  table  of  shewbread,  candle- 
stick); 30  1-10  (altar  of  incense);  cf  ch  37  for 
making.  In  the  innermost  shrine,  the  Holy  of 
Holies,  the  sole  object  was  the  ark  of  the  covenant, 
overlaid  within  and  without  with  pure  gold,  with 
its  molding  and  rings  of  gold,  its  staves  overlaid 
with  gold  passed  through  the  rings,  and  its  lid  or 
covering  of  solid  gold — the  propitiatory  or  mercy- 
seat — at  either  end  of  which,  of  one  piece  with  it 
(25  19;  37  8),  stood  cherubim,  with  wings  out- 


2891 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tabernacle 


stretched  over  the  mercy-seat  and  with  faces  turned 
toward  it  (for  details  see  AUK  OF  COVENANT; 
MKKCY-SKAT;  CIIHHUIUM).  This  was  the  meeting- 
place  of  Jeh  and  His  people  through  Moses  (25 
22).  The  ark  contained  only  the  two  tables  of 
stone,  hence  its  name,  "the  ark  of  the  testimony" 
(25  1C). 22).  It  is  not  always  realized  how  small 
an  object  the  ark  was — only  2\  cubits  (3  ft.  9  in.) 
long,  I',  cubits  (2  ft.  3  in.)  broad,  and  the  same 
(1J-  cubits)  high. 

The  furniture  of  the  outer  chamber  of  the  taber- 
nacle consisted  of  (a)  the  table  of  shewbread;  (h) 
the  golden  candlestick:  (c)  the  altar  of  incense, 
or  golden  altar.  These  were  placed,  the  table  of 
shewbread  on  the  north  side  (40  22),  the  candle- 
stick on  the  south  side  (40  24),  and  the  altar  of 
incense  in  front  of  the  veil,  in  the  holy  place. 

(a)  The  table  of  shewbread  was  a  small  table 
of  acacia  wood,  overlaid  with  gold,  with  a  golden 
rim  round  the  top,  gold  rings  at  the  corners  of  its 
4  feet,  staves  for  the  rings,  and  a  "border"  (at 
middle?)  joining  the  legs,  holding  them  together. 
Its  dimensions  were  2  cubits  (3  ft.)  long,  1  cubit  (18 
in.)  broad,  and  l-J-  cubits  (2  ft.  3  in.)  high.  On  it 
wen1  placed  12  cakes,  renewed  each  week,  in  2  piles 
(cf  Lev  24  5-9),  together  with  dishes  (for  the 
bread),  spoons  (incense  cups),  flagons  and  bowls  (for 
drink  offerings),  all  of  pure  gold  (see  SHEWBREAD, 
TABLE  OF). 

(It)  The  candlestick  or  lampsf  and  was  the  article 
on  which  most  adornment  was  lavished.  It  was 
of  pure  gold,  and  consisted  of  a  central  stem 
(in  25  32-35  this  specially  receives  the  name 
"candlestick"),  with  3  curved  branches  on  either 
side,  all  elegantly  wrought  with  cups  of  almond 
blossom,  knops,  and  flowers  (lilies?) — 3  of  this 
series  to  each  branch  and  4  to  the  central  stem. 
1'pon  the  G  brandies  and  the  central  stem  were  7 
lamps  from  which  the  light  issued.  Connected  with 
the  candlestick  were  snuffers  and  snuff-dishes  for 
the  wicks — all  of  gold.  The  candlestick  was  formed 
from  a  talent  of  pure  gold  (ver  38).  See  CANDLE- 
STICK. 

(c.)  The  description  of  the  altar  of  incense  occurs 
(30  1-10)  for  some  unexplained  reason  or  dis- 
placement out  of  the  place  where  it  might  be  ex- 
pected, but  this  is  no  reason  for  throwing  doubt 
(with  some)  upon  its  existence.  It  was  a  small 
altar,  overlaid  with  gold,  a  cubit  (IS  in.)  square,  and 
2  cubits  (3  ft.)  high,  with  4  horns.  On  it  was  burned 
sweet-smelling  incense.  It  had  the  usual  golden 
rim,  golden  rings,  and  gold-covered  staves.  See 

Al,TAH  OF  IXCKXSE. 

///.  History.—  We  may  fix  1220  BC  as  the 
approximate  date  of  the  introduction  of  the  taber- 
nacle. It  was  set  up  at  Sinai  on  the 
1.  Removal  1st  day  of  the  1st  month  of  the  2d 
from  Sinai  year  (Ex  40  2.17),  i.e.  14  days  before 
the  celebration  of  the  Passover  on  the 
first  anniversary  of  the  exodus  (see  CHRONOLOGY 
OF  THE  OT,  VII,  VIII).  When  the  people  re- 
sumed their  journey,  the  ark  was  wrapped  in  the 
veil  which  had  served  to  isolate  the  most  holy 
place  (Nu  4  5).  This  and  the  two  altars  were 
carried  upon  the  shoulders  of  the  children  of 
Kohath,  a  descendant  of  Levi,  and  were  removed 
under  the  personal  supervision  of  the  high  priest 
(Nu  3  31.32;  4  15).  The  rest  of  the  "dismem- 
bered structure  was  carried  in  six  covered  wagons, 
offered  by  the  prince,  each  drawn  by  two  oxen 
(Nu  7).  Doubtless  others  were  provided  for  the 
heavier  materials  (cf  Keil).  Before  leaving  Sinai 
the  brazen  altar  had  been  dedicated,  and  utensils 
of  gold  and  silver  had  been  presented  for  use  at  the 
services.  The  tabernacle  had  been  standing  at 
Sinai  during  50  days  (Nu  10  11). 


The  journey   lay   along   the   "great    and   terrible 

wilderness"  between  Iloreb  in  the  heart  of  Arabia 

and    Kadesh-barnea   in    the   Negeb   of 

2.  Sojourn     Jlidah;      of     the     40     years     occupied 
at  Kadesh      in   the  journey  to  Canaan,   nearly  3S 

were  spent  at  Kadesh,  a  fact  not 
always  clearly  recogni/ed.  The  tabernacle  stood 
here  during  37  years  (one  year  being  occupied  in 
a  punitive  journey  southward  to  the  shore  of  the 
Red  Sea).  During  this  whole  time  the  ordinary 
sacrifices  were  not  offered  (Am  5  25),  though  it  is 
possible  that  the  appropriate  seasons  wen;  never- 
theless marked  in  more  than  merely  chronological 
fashion.  Few  incidents  are  recorded  as  to  these 
years,  and  little  mention  is  made  of  the.  tabernacle 
throughout  the  whole;  journey  except,  that  the  ark 
of  the  covenant,  preceded  the  host,  when  on  the 
march  (Nu  10  33-30).  It,  is  the  unusual  that,  is 
recorded;  the  daily  aspect  of  the  tabernacle  and 
the  part  it  played  in  the  life  of  the  people  were 
among  the  things  recurrent  and  familiar. 

When,  at  last,  the  Jordan  was  crossed,  the  first 
consideration,  presumably,  was  to  find  a  place  on 

which  to  pitch  the  sacred  tent,  a  place 

3.  Settle-       hitherto    uninhabited    and    free    from 
ment  in          possible  defilement  by  human  graves. 
Canaan  Such  a  place  was  found  in  the  neigh- 
borhood  of  Jericho,   and   came  to  be 

known  as  Ciilgal  (Josh  4  19;  5  10;  9  G;  10  6.43). 
(lilgal,  however,  was  always  regarded  as  a  tempo- 
rary site.  The  tabernacle  is  not  directly  mentioned 
in  connection  with  it.  The  question  of  a  permanent 
location  was  the  occasion  of  mutual  jealousy  among 
the  tribes,  and  was  at  last  settled  by  the  removal 
of  the  tabernacle  to  Shiloh,  in  the  territory  of 
Ephraim,  a  place  conveniently  central  for  attend- 
ance of  all  adult  males  at  the  three  yearly  festivals, 
without  the  zone  of  war,  and  also  of  some  strategic 
importance.  During  the  lifetime  of  Joshua,  there- 
fore, the  tabernacle  was  removed  over  the  20  miles, 
or  less,  which  separated  Shiloh  among  the  hills  from 
Ciilgal  in  the  lowlands  (Josh  18  1 ;  19  51).  While 
at  Shiloh  it  seems  to  have  acquired  some  accessories 
of  a  more  permanent  kind  (1  S  1  9,  etc),  which 
obtained  for  it  the  name  "temple"  (1  9;  33). 

During  the  period  of  the  Judges  the  nation  lost 

the  fervor  of  its  earlier  years  and  was  in  imminent 

danger  of   apostasy.     The  daily  serv- 

4.  Destruc-  ices  of  the  tabernacle  were  doubtless 
tion  of  observed  after  a  perfunctory  manner, 
Shiloh  but  they  seem  to  have  had  little  effect 

upon  the  people,  either  to  soften  their 
manners  or  raise  their  morals.  In  the  early  days 
of  Samuel  war  broke  out  afresh  with  the  Pliilis. 
At  a  council  of  war  the  unprecedented  proposal  was 
made  to  fetch  the  ark  of  the  covenant  from  Shiloh 
(1  S  4  Iff).  Accompanied  by  the  two  sons  of 
Eli — Hophni  and  Phinehas — it  arrived  in  the  camp 
and  was  welcomed  by  a  shout  which  was  heard  in 
the  hostile  camp.  It  was  no  longer  Jeh  but  the 
material  ark  that  was  the  hope  of  Israel,  so  low  had 
the  people  fallen.  Eli  himself,  at  that  time  high 
priest,  must  at  least  have  acquiesced  in  this  super- 
stition. It  ended  in  disaster.  The  ark  was  taken 
by  the  Philis,  its  two  guardians  were  slain,  and 
Israel  was  helpless  before  its  enemies.  Though 
the  Ileb  historians  are  silent  about  what  followed, 
it  is  certain  that  Shiloh  itself  fell  into  the  hands 
of  the  Philis.  The  very  destruction  of  it  accounts 
for  the  silence  of  the  historians,  for  it  would  have 
been  at  the  central  sanctuary  there,  the  center  and 
home  of  what  literary  culture  then;  was  in  Israel 
during  this  stormy  period,  that  chronicles  of  events 
would  be  kept.  Ps  78  GO  ff  no  doubt  has  reference 
to  this  overthrow,  and  it  is  referred  to  in  Jer  7  12. 
The  tabernacle  itself  does  not  seem  to  have  been 
taken  bv  the  Philis,  as  it  is  met  with  later  at  Nob. 


Tabernacle 


TIIK  1XTKRXATIOXAL  STANDARD  B1BLK  KXCYCLOPAKDIA 


2S92 


For  lack  of  a  high  priest  of  character,  Samuel  himself 
seems  ow  to  have?  become  .  ho  head  of  rehgu.us  worship 
It  is  possible  that  the  tabernacle  ma.\  have 
R  nplnrali-  I'een  again  removed  to  (Jilgal,  as  it  was 
5.  Uelocall-  there  tflat  SamlK.l  appointed  Saul  to  nice 
zation  of  him  ,u  01-(U>r  to  olier  burnt  offerings  and 


m  ,u  0 

Worship  peace  offerings.    The  ark,  however  resUHVt 

by  the  rhilis,  remained  at    Iviriath-jearim 

- 


Tins ueiocan/,aiu  »««y  > -•    ••".,.,.  1  ,...t  ,,,.,,„ 

lutionarv,  but  it  is  partly  explained  by  the  fact  that  even 

in  the,  tabernacle  there  was  now  no  ark  before  whict 

urn  incense.     Of  the  half-dozen  places  bearing  the  name 

Ran  ah    this,  which  Mas  Samuel's  home,  was  the.  one 

near  to  Hebron  where  to  t  his  .lay  t  he  foundations  of  what 

may  have  been  Samuel's  sacred  inclosure  may  be  seen  at 

"'  W?MiextVear'of7hc  tabernacle  at  Xob,  with  Ahimelech, 


e     -w   X 
6.    JNOD 

Gibeon 


4  miles  to  the  N.  of  Jerus,  and  was  more- 
over a  high  i)lac«>,  :«)  ft.  higher  than  /ion. 
It  does  not  follow  that  the  tabernacle 
was  placed  at  the  top  of  the  lull.  Hen- 
it  remained  a  few  years,  till  after  the  ™w«aoro  by  Saul  of 
all  the  priests  at  Xob  save  one,  Abiathar  (I  S  22  1  1  IT). 
Subsequently,  possiblv  by  Saul  himself,  it  was  removed 
t.  (T  I  - o.  I'  Ch  16  30;  21  2!)).  Gibeon  was  (i  nnles  from 
Jerus,  and' 7  from  Beth-el,  and  may  have  been  chosen 
for  its  strategic  advantage  as  well  as  for  the  fact  that  it 
was  already  inhabited  by  priests,  and  was  Saul's  ancestral 
city. 

This  removal  by  Saul,  if  he  was  the  author  of  it, 
was  recognized  afterward  by  David  as  a  thing  done, 
with  which  he  did  not  think  it  wise 
7  Restora-  to  interfere  (cf  1  Ch  16  40).  On  his 
tionof  the  capturing  the  fortress  of  Jebus  (later 
Ark  Jerus),  and  building  himselt  a  house 

there,  David  prepared  a  place  for  the 
ark  of  God,  and  pitched  a  tent  on  /ion  in  imitation 
of  the  tabernacle  at  Gibeon  1,2  S  6  17ft; 
16  1)  He  must  also  have  provided  an  altar,  tor 
we  read  of  burnt  offerings  and  peace  offerings  being 
made  there.  Meanwhile  the  ark  had  been  brought 
from  Iviriath-jearim,  where  it  had  lain  so  long; 
it  was  restored  in  the  presence  ot  a  concourse  oi 
people  representing  the  whole  nation,  the  soldiery 
and  civilians  delivering  it  to  the  priests  ('. 
On  this  journey  l'z/ah  was  smitten  for  touching  the 
•irk  Arrived 'near  Jerus,  the  ark  was  carried  into 
the  house  of  Obed-edom,  a  Levite,  and  remained 
there  for  3  months.  At  the  end  of  this  time  it  was 
carried  into  David's  tabernacle  with  all  fitting 
solemnity  and  honor. 

Hence  it  was  that  there  were  now  two  tabernacles, 
the  original  one  with  its  altar  at   Gibeon,  and  the 
new  one  with  tin1  original  ark  m  Jems, 
8.  The  Two  both  under  the  protection  of  the  king. 
Tabernacles  Both,     however,     were     soon     to     be 
superseded  by  the  building  of  a  temple. 
The  altar  at  Gibeon  continued  in  use  till  the  time 
of    Solomon.     Of    all    the;    actual    material    of    the 
tabernacle,  the   ark   alone   remained    unchanged   in 
the  temple.     The  tabernacle  itself,  with  its  sacre.t 
vessels,    was  brought   up    to  Jerus,   and  was    pre- 
served, apparently,  as  a  sacred  relic  m  the  temple 
(1  K  8  4).     Thus,  after  a  history  of  more  than  2( 
vears    the  tabernacle  ceases  to  appear  in  history. 
"    IV.  Symbolism.— Though     the    tabernacle    was 
historically    the   predecessor   of   the   later   temples, 
as  a  matter  of  fact,  the  veil  was  the  only  item  actu- 
ally   retained    throughout    the    series    of    temples. 
Nevertheless  it    is   the  tabernacle  rather  than  t 
temple  which  has  provided  a  substructure  for  much 
NT  teaching.      All  the  well-known  allusions  of  the 
writer  to  the  He,  e.g.  in  chs  9  and  10,  are  to  the 
tabernacle,  rather  than  to  any  later  temple. 

In  general  the  tabernacle  is  the  symbol  of  God's 
dwelling  with  His  people  (Kx  25  8;  cf  1  K  8  2,  ), 
an  idea  in  process  of  realization  m  more  and  more 
perfect  forms  till  it  reaches  its  completion  in  the 
incarnation  of  the  Word  ("The  Word  became  flesh, 


;md    dwelt     |Gr    ••tabernacled"!    among    us,"      .In   1 
1  1;   cf  2  Cor  5    1  »,  in  the  church  collectively  (2  Cor 
6   Hi)    and    in   the   individual  believer 
1.   NT  (1   Cor  6  !«))  and  finally  in  the  eternal 

References    glory  (  Hev  2  13  ff).     In  the  Kp.  to  the 
He,   the  locus  classicus  of   the   taber- 
nacle in  Christ  ian  thought,  the  idea  is  more  cosmical 
-  the  tabernacle  in  its  holy  and  most  holy  divisions 
representing  the  earthly  and  the  heavenly  spheres 
of  Christ's  activity.     The  OT  was  but  a  shadow 
of  the  eternal  substance,  an  indication  of  the  true 
ideal   (He  8  f>;     10  1).     The  tabernacle   m   which 
Christ  ministered  was  a  tabernacle  which  the  Lord 
pitched,  and  not  man  (8  2).     He  is  the  high  priest 
of   "the   greater   and   more  perfect   tabernacle      (9 
in       "Christ    entered  not  into  a  holy  place  made 
with  hands,  like  in  pattern  to  the  true;    but  into 
heaven    itself,    now    to   appear   before   the   face   of 
God    for    us"    (9  2-1  i.      The   symbolical   significance 
of  the  tabernacle  and  its  worship  is  not,  however, 
confined  to  the  Kp.  to  the  He.     It  must  be  admitted 
that    St.    Paul    does    not    give    prominence    to    the 
tabernacle  symbolism,  and  further,  that  his  refer- 
ences are  to  things  common  to  the  tabernacle  and 
the  temple.      Hut   St.   Paul  speaks  of  "the  laver  of 
regeneration"    (Tit   3  5  RVm),  and  of  Christ,  who 
"gave  himself  up  for  us,  an  offering  and  a  sacrifice 
to  Cod,  for  an  odor  of  a  sweet,  smell"  (Eph_6  2). 
The  significance  which  the  synoptic,  writers  give  to 
the  rending  of  the  veil  of  the  temple  (Mt,  27  51; 
Mk  15  3S;      Lk  23  4.">)  shows  how  this  symbolism 
entered  deeply  into  their  thought   and  was  felt  by 
them    to    have    Divine    attestation    in    this    suiter- 
natural  fact.     The  way  into  the  holiest  of  all,  as 
the  writer  to  the  He  says,  was  now  made  manifest 
(9  S;    10   l'.t.2<)). 

The  suggestion  which  underlies  all  such  NT  references 
is    not    only    that    Christ,   in   His   human   manifestatio 

was  both  tabernacle  and  priest,  altar  and 
9  Tnrl'c  sacrifice,  but  also,  and  still  more,  that 
(iod  ever  has  His  dwelling  among  men 
Dwelling  veiled  no  doubt  from  the  unbelieving  and 
with  Man  insincere,  but  always  manifest,  and  acces- 
sible to  the  faithful  and  devout.  As  we 
have  a  great  high  priest  who  is  now  passed  into  the 
iuavens,  there  to  appear  in  our  behalf  m  the  true  taber- 
nacle so  we  ourselves  have  permission  and  encourage- 
ment'to  enter  into  the  holiest  place  of  all  on  earth  by  the 
blood  Of  the  everlasting  covenant.  Of  the  hopes  em- 
bodied  in  these  two  planes  of  thought,  the  earthly 
her  ac  e  was  the  symbol  and  contained  the  prospect 
and  foretaste  of  the  higher  communion.  It  is  this 
w  cl  as  given  the  tabernacle  such  an  abiding  hold  on 
the  imagination  and  veneration  of  the  Christian  church  in 

all  lands  and  languages. 

The  symbolism  of  the  various  parts  of  the  taber- 
n-icle   furniture   is   tolerably   obvious,    and   is   con- 
sidered  under  the  different  headings. 
3    Symbol-    The    ark    of    the    covenant    with    its 
ism  of  propitiatory  was  the  symbol  of  God  s 

Furniture  gracious  meeting  with  His  people 
on  the  ground  of  atonement  (cf  Kom 
3  <>rr  see  AUK  OF  THE  COVENANT).  The  twelve 
cakes  of  shewbread  denote  the  twelve  tribes  of 
Israel  and  their  presentation  is  at  once  an  act 
of  gratitude-  for  that  which  is  the  support  of  lite, 
and  symbolically,  a  dedication  of  the  life  thus 
supported;  the  candlestick  speaks  to  the  calling 
of  Israel  to  be  a  people  of  light  (cf  Jesus  m  Mt  5 
14-10);  the  rising  incense  symbolizes  the  act 
praver  (cf  Hev  6  8;  8  3). 

LITEBATURE.— See  the  arts,  on  "Tabernacle"  and 
-TempFe'7  in  Smith's  DU,  HDB,  EB  The  Temple 
BD  etc;  also  the  comms.  on  Exodus  (the  Speaker's 
PufrMComm.,  Keil's,  l.ange's,  etc);  Bahr,  . s,,,..'.,/./-  H 


and  Structure      See  arts,  in  this  Encyclopaedia  on   the 
special  parts  of  the  tabernacle;  and  see  also  1  EMPLE. 

^  .  SHAW  CALDECOTT 
JAMES  ORR 


2S93 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tabernacle 


15.     IN  CHITICISM 

I.        (  '<)  NSKKV  ATI  V  !•:     AND     ('lUTH'AI.     VlKWS 

II.        A  IKll'M  KNTS    IN    Nrri'OItT    OK    TIIK    ClUTK'Al.    TlIKOKY 
K  XAMINKI) 

1.  Not,  Statc(l  That  the  Temple  Was  Constructed 
after  the   Pattern  of  the  Tabernacle 

2.  \o   Trace   of   the   Tabernacle   in    Pre-Solomonic 
Times 

3.  The.  Tabernacle  Could  Not  Have  15een  Built  as 
Kxodus  Describes 

4.  Biblical  Account  Contains  Marks  of   Us   I'lihis- 
torical  Character 

r>.    Pivexilic    Prophets    Knew    Nothing   of    Levitical 
System  of   Which  the  Tabernaclu   Was  Said   to 
Be  the,  Center. 
LITERATURE 

/.  Conservative  and  Critical  Views. — The  con- 
servative view  of  Scripture  finds  (1)  that  the  taber- 
nacle was  constructed  by  Moses  in  the  wilderness 
of  Sinai;  (2)  that  it  was  fashioned  according  to  a 
pattern  shown  to  him  in  the  Mount;  (3)  that  it 
was  designed  to  be  and  was  the  center  of  sacrificial 
worship  for  the  tribes  in  the  wilderness;  and  (4) 
that  centuries  later  the  Solomonic  Temple  was  con- 
structed after  it  as  a  model.  The  critical  (higher) 
view  of  Scripture  says,  (1)  that  the  tabernacle 
never  existed  except  on  paper;  (2)  that  it  was  a 
pure  creation  of  priestly  imagination  sketched  after 
or  during  the  exile;  (3)  that  it  was  meant  to  be 
a  miniature  sanctuary  on  the  model  of  Solomon's 
Temple;  (4)  that  it  was  represented  as  having 
been  built  in  the  wilderness  for  the  purpose  of 
legitimating  the  newly  published  PC  or  Levitical 
ritual  still  preserved  in  the  middle  books  of  the 
Pent;  and  (">)  that  the  description  of  the  taber- 
nacle furnished  in  P  (Ex  25-31;  36-40;  Nu  2 
2.17;  5  1-4;  14  44)  conflicts  with  that  given  in 
]-]  (Ex  33  7-11),  both  as  to  its  character  and  its 
location. 

The  principal  grounds  on  which  it  is  proposed 
to  set  aside  the  conservative  and  put  in  its  place 
the  critical  theory  are  these;: 

//.  Arguments  in  Support  of  the  Critical  Theory 
Examined. — (1)  It  is  nowhere  stated  that  Solo- 
mon's Temple  was  constructed  after  the  pattern  of 
the  Mosaic  tabernacle;  hence  it  is  reasonable  to 
infer  that  the  Mosaic  tabernacle  had  no  existence 
when  or  before  the  Solomonic  Temple  was  built. 

(2)  No   trace  of    the  Mosaic  tabernacle  can  be 
found   in   the  pre-Solomonic   period,   whence   it  is 
clear  that  no  such  tabernacle  existed. 

(3)  The  Mosaic  tabernacle  could  not  have  been 
produced    as    Ex    describes,    and    accordingly    the 
story  must  be  relegated  to  the  limbo  of  romance. 

(4)  The  Bib.  account  of  the  Alosaic  tabernacle 
bears  internal  marks  of  its  completely  unhistorical 
character. 

(f>)  The  precxilic  prophets  knew  nothing  of  the 
Levitical  system  of  which  the  Mosaic  tabernacle  was 
ihe  center,  and  hence  the  whole  story  must  be  set 
down  as  a  sacred  legend. 

These  assertions  demand  examination. 

It  is  urged  that  noirhere  is  it  stated  that  Solomon's 
Temple  was  fashioned  after  the  pattern  of  the,  Mosaic 
tabernacle.  "Wellhausen  thinks  (GI, 
1.  First  ch  i,  3,  p.  44)  that,  had  it  been  so,  the 
Alleged  narrators  in  K  and  Ch  would  have 

Ground  said  so.  "At  least,"  he  writes,  "one 
would  have  expected  that  in  the  report 
concerning  the  building  of  the  new  sanctuary,  casual 
mention  would  have  been  made  of  the  old."  And 
so  there  was— in  1  K  8  4  and  2  Ch  5  5.  Of 
course,  it  is  contended  that  "the  tent  of  meeting" 
referred  to  in  these  passages  was  not  the  Mosaic 
tabernacle  of  Ex  26,  but  simply  a  provisional 
shelter  for  the  ark — though  in  P  the  Mosaic  taber- 
nacle bears  the  same  designation  (Ex  27  21). 
Conceding,  however,  for  the  sake  of  argument,  that 
the  tent  of  the  historical  books  was  not  the  Alosaic 
tabernacle  of  Ex,  and  that  this  is  nowhere  spoken 


of  as  the  model  on  which  Solomon's  Temple  was 
constructed,  does  it,  necessarily  follow  that  because 
the  narrators  in  K  and  Ch  did  not  expressly  state 
that  Solomon's  Temple  was  built  after  the  pattern 
of  the  Mosaic  tabernacle,  therefore  the  Mosaic 
tabernacle  had  no  existence!  when  the  narrators 
wrote?  If  it  does,  then  the  same  logic,  will  dem- 
onstrate the  non-existence  of  Solomon's  Temple 
before;  the  exile,  because;  when  the  writer  of  1' 
was  describing  the  Alosaic  tabernacle  IK;  made  no 
mention  whatever  about  its  be-ing  a  miniature-  copy 
e>f  Solomon's  Temple.  A  rednrlin  <i<l  alixurdum,  like 
this  disposes  e>f  the-  first  of  the  five  pillars  upem 
which  the  ne'W  the'ory  rests. 

It  is  allege-d  that  no  trace  of  the  Mosaic,  tabernacle, 
can  be  found,  in.  pre-Solomonic  times.  On  the; 

principle  that  sile-ne-e;  about  a  persem, 
2.  Second  thing  or  event  does  not  prove  the  non- 
Alleged  existe-nce  e>f  the>  person  or  thing  e>r  the 
Ground  non-oe-e-urrence  e>f  the  event,  this  2d 

argument  might  fairly  be  laid  aside-  as 
irre-levant.  Yet  it  will  be;  more1  sat  isfae-tory  to  ask,  if 
the;  assertion  be  true,  why  ne>  trace  of  the  tabernacle 
can  be>  detected  in  the  histe>rical  books  in  pre- 
Solomonic  time's.  The  answer  is,  that  e>f  course  it 
is  true;,  if  the;  historical  Imoks  be;  first,  "doctored," 
i.e>.  gone  over  and  dressed  1e>  suit,  the  theory,  by 
removing  from  them  eve-ry  passage,  sentence,  clause 
and  word  that  seems  to  indie-ate-,  presuppose1  en- 
imply  the  existence-  of  the  tabernacle',  and  sue-h 
passage,  sentence1,  clause  and  wetrd  assigned  te>  a 
late  R  who  insert e'd  it  into  the;  original  text  to  give 
color  to  his  theory,  and  support  to  his  fie-tiem  that 
the  Mosaic  tabernae-Ic  and  its  se'rvie-es  originated 
in  the  wilderness.  Cemld  this  th<-e>ry  be  established 
em  independent  grounds,  i.e>.  by  e-vidence  derived 
from  e>ther  historical  eloe-uments,  without  tampering 
with  the  sacreel  narrative,  semiething  might  be  said 
fe>r  its  plausibility.  But  eve'ry  scholar  knows  that 
not  a  particle  of  evidence  has  ever  be-en,  or  is  likely 
ever  to  be,  adeluevd  in  its  support  be'yonel  what 
crit  ie-s  themselves  manufacture  in  the1  way  described. 
That  they  de>  find  traces  of  the  Alosaie-  tabernacle 
in  the  historical  be>oks,  they  unconsciously  and 
unintentionally  allow  by  their  efforts  te>  explain  such 
traces  away,  which  more-over  they  can  only  do  by 
denouncing  these  traces  as  spuriems  and  subjecting 
them  to  a  sort  of  surgie-al  operation  in  order  to 
excise  them  from  the  bexly  of  the  text.  But  these 
so-calle'd  spurious  trace-s  are  either  true  or  they  are 
not  true.  If  they  are  true,  whoever  inserted  them, 
then  they  attest  the  existence  of  the  tabernacle1, 
first  at  Shiloh,  and  afterward  at  Xob,  later  at 
Gibeem,  anel  finally  at  Jerus;  if  the>y  are  not  true, 
then  some  other  things  in  the  narrative  must  be 
written!  down  as  imagination,  as,  e.g.  the  ceHiquest 
e>f  the  land,  anel  its  divisiem  ame>ng  the  tribes,  t he- 
story  of  the  altar  em  the  E.  of  Jordan,  the  ministry 
of  the  youthful  Samuel  at,  Shiloh,  and  of  Ahimelech 
at  Nob. 

(1)  The  Mosaic  tabernacle  at  Shiloh. — That  the 
structure  at  Shiloh  (1  S  1  3.9.1'.).21;  2  11.12;  3  3) 
was  the  Alosaic  tabernacle  everything  recemleel 
about  it  shows.  It  contained  the-  ark  of  (!e>el, 
calleel  also  the  ark  of  the  covenant  e>f  God  anel 
the  ark  e>f  the  covenant  erf  Jeh,  e>r  more  fully  the 
ark  of  the  covenant  of  Jeh  of  Hosts,  name's,  e-sp. 
the;  last,  which  for  the  ark  associateel  with  the  taber- 
nacle we're  not  unkimwn  in  the-  perioel  of  the1 
wandering.  It  had  likewise  a  priesthood  and  a 
sacrificial  worship  of  three  parts — e>ffering  sacrifice 
(in  the  forecourt),  burning  incense  (in  the  holy 
place),  and  wearing  an  ephod  (in  the;  Holy  of  He>lie>s) 
— which  at  least  bore  a  close  resemblance  te>  the 
cultus  of  the  tabernacle,  anel  in  point  of  fact  claimed 
te)  have  been  haneled  elenvn  from  Aarem.  Then 
Elkanah's  pious  custemi  of  going  up  yearly  from 


Tabernacle  Till'}  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2894 


Ramathaim-zophim   io   Shiloh   to  worship   and   t 
sacrifice  unto  Jeh  of  Hosts  sugge-sts  that  in  his  day 
Shiloh  was  regarded  as  the  central  high  place  and 
that  the  law  of  the  throe;  yearly  feasts  (Ex  23   1-1; 
Lev  23  1-1$;  Dt  16  16)  was  not  unknown,  thougl 
perhaps  only  partiall}"  observed;    while  the  state- 
ment   about,  "the  women  who  did  service  at  the 
door  of  the  tent  of  meeting"  as  clearly  points  back 
to  the  similar  female  institution  in  connection  with 
the  tabernacle  (Ex  38  S).     To  these  considerations 
it  is  objected  (a)  that  the  Shiloh  sanctuary  was  not 
the  Mosaic  tabernacle,  which  was  a  portable  tent, 
but   a  solid   structure  with   posts   and   doors,   and 
(/>)  that  even  if  it  was  not  a  solid  structure  but  a 
tent,  it  could  be  left  at  any  moment  without  the 
ark,  in  which  case  it  could  not  have  been  the  Mosaic 
tabernacle  of  which   the  ark  was  an   "inseparable 
companion";    while  (c)  if  it  was  the  ancient  "dwell- 
ing" _of    Jeh,    it    could    not   have   been   made   the 
dormitory  of  Samuel.      But   (a)   while  it  need  not 
be    denied    that     the    Shiloh    sanctuary    possessed 
posts  and  doors— Jer  7   12  seems  to  admit  that  it 
was  a  structure  which   might,   be   laid   in  ruins — 
yet  this  does  not   warrant,  the  conclusion  that  the 
Mosaic;    tabernacle    had    no    existence    in    Shiloh. 
It  is  surely  not  impossible  or  even  improbable  that, 
when    the    tabernacle   had    obtained    a    permanent, 
location  at   Shiloh,  and   that    for  nearly  400  years 
(of  above  under  A,  III,  1,  8  and  see  CHRONOLOGY 
OF    TIIH    OT,     VII,     VIII),    (luring    the    course    of 
these    centuries    a    porch    with    posts    and    doors 
may    have    been    erected    before    the    curtain   that 
formed    the    entrance   to    the    holy    place,    or    that 
strong  buildings   may   have   boon   put   up   around 
it  as  houses  for  the  priests  and  Levites,  as  treasure- 
chambers,  and  such   like — thus  causing   it    to  pre- 
sent   the   appearance   of    a    palace   or    house   with 
the  tabernacle  proper  in  its  interior.     Then  (b)  as 
to  the  impossibility  of  the  ark  being  taken  from  the 
tabernacle,  as  was  done  when  it   was  captured  by 
the  Philis,  there  is  no  doubt  that  there  were  occa- 
sions when  it  was  not  only  legitimate,  but  expressly 
commanded   to   separate  the  ark   from   the  taber- 
nacle, though  the  war  with  the  Philis  was  not  one. 
In     Nu  10  :«,    it    is    distinctly    stated    that    the 
ark,   by  itself,  went    before  the  people  when  they 
marched    through    the    wilderness;     and    there    is 
ground    for    thinking    that,    during    the    Benjamite 
war  the  ark  was  with  Divine  sanction  temporarily 
removed    from    Shiloh    to    Beth-el    (Jgs  20  20.27) 
and,  when  the  campaign  closed,  brought,  back  again 
to    Shiloh    (21   12).      (c)    As    for    the    notion    that, 
the    Shiloh    sanctuary    could    not    have    been    the 
Mosaic  tabernacle  because  Samuel  is  said  to  have 
slept   in   it,   beside   the   ark   of   (lod,    it,   should   be 
enough   to  reply   thai    the  narrative;  does  not,  say 
or    imply    that    Samuel   had    converted    either    the 
holy  place  e>r  the   most  holy   into  a  private  beel- 
ehamber,   but   merely   that   he;  lay   down   te>  sleep 
"in  the  temple  of  the  Le>rd  where  the  ark  of  God 
was,"    doubtless    "in   the;   court   where   ce;lls   were: 
built  for  the  priests  and   Levites  te>  live  in  whe-n 
serving  at  the  sanctuary"   (Keil).     But  even  if  it 
elid  mean  that  the;  youthful  Samuel  actually  sle-pt  in 
the  Holy  of  Holie-s,  one  fails  to  sex;  how  an  abuse; 
like   that   may   not    have   occurred    in    a   time   so 
degenerate  as  that  of  Eli,  or  how,  if  it  elid,  it  would 
necessarily  prove  that  the  Shiloh  shrine  was  not  the 
Mosaic  tabcrnae.'le. 

(2)  The  Moanic  tabernacle  at  A~oh. — That  the  sanctuary 
at  Nob  (1  S  21  1-6)  was  the  Mosaic  tabernacle  may 
be  inferred  from  the  following  circumstances:  (a)  that  it 
had  a  high  priest  with  85  ordinary  priests,  a  priest's 
ephod,  and  a  table  of  shewbread;  (6)  that  the  eating  of 
tlie  shewbread  was  conditioned  by  the  same  law  of 
ceremonial  purity  as  prevailed  in  connection  with  the 
Mosaic  tabernacle  (Lev  15  IS);  and  (c)  that  the  Trim 
was  employed  there  by  the  priest  to  ascertain  the  Divine 
will — all  of  which  circumstances  pertained  to  the  Mosaic 


tabernacle  and  to  no  other  institution  known  among  the 
Hebrews.  If  the  statement  (L  eMi  13  :{)  that  the  ark 
was  not  inquired  at  in  the  days  of  Said  calls  for  explana- 
tion.  that  explanation  is  obviously  this,  that  during  Saul's 
reign  the  ark  was  dissociated  from  the  tabernacle, 
being  lodged  in  the  house  of  Abinadab  at  Kiriath-jearim, 
and  was  accordingly  in  large  measure  forgotten.  The 
slatement  (1  S  14  IS)  that  Saul  in  his  war  with  the 
Philis  commanded  Ahijah,  Kli's  great-grandson,  who  was 
"the  priest  of  the  Lord  in  Shiloh,  wearing  an  ephod" 
(ver  3)  to  fetch  up  the  ark  -if  ver  IS  should  not  rather 
be  read  according  to  the  LXX.  "  Bring  hither  the  ephod" 
— can  only  sigiiify  that  on  this  particular  occasion  it  was 
fetched  from  Kiriath-jearim  at  the  enei  of  20  years  and 
afterward  returned  thither.  This,  however,  is  not  a  likely 
supposition;  and  for  the  LXX  reading  it  can  be  said 
that  the  phrase  "Bring  hither"  was  never  used  in  con- 
nection with  the  ark;  that  the  ark  was  never  employed 
for  ascertaining  the  Divine  will,  hut  the  ephod  was;  and 
that  the  Heb  text  in  ver  IS  seems  corrupt,,  the  last,  clause 
reading  "  for  the  ark  of  ( Joel  \\  as  at  that  day  and  the  sons 
of  Israel,"  which  is  not  extre-mely  intelligible. 

(3)  The,  Afowic  tabernacle  at  Cihcon. — The 
last  mention  of  the  Mosaic,  tabernacle:  oce-urs  in 
connection  with  the  building  e>f  Solomon's  Temple 
(1  K  8  4;  2  Ch  1  3;  5  3),  whe-n  it  is  state-el  that 
the  ark  of  the  e-ovenant  and  the1  tent  e>f  mee-ting, 
and  all  the  holy  vessels  that  we-re-  in  the  tent  we-re 
solemnly  foleheel  up  into  the  house  which  Solomon 
had  built.  That  what  is  here;  calleel  the  taber- 
nacle of  the  congregation,  or  the  tent  of  meeting, 
was  ne>t  the  Mosaic  tabernacle;  has  been  main- 
tained e>n  the  fe>llowing  grounds:  (a)  that  had  it, 
be-on  so,  David,  wlu-n  he  fetche'd  up  the  ark  from 
Obed-edom's  hemse,  would  not  have  pilehe>d  for  it 
a  te-nt  in  the  city  of  David,  but  would  have;  loelged 
it,  in  Gibe-em;  (!>}  that  hael  the;  (Jibeon  shrine  be-e-n 
the  Mosaie;  tabernacle  it  wemld  ne>t  have;  be-e-n 
calleel  as  it  is  in  K,  "a  gre-at  high  place";  (c.)  that 
had  the  Gibeon  shrine  been  the  Mosaic  tabernacle, 
Solomon  wemlel  not  have  rexmired  to  cast  new 
vessels  for  his  Temple,  as  he  is  report  exl  te>  have: 
deme;  anel  (<l)  that  had  the  (!ibe-on  shrine  been  the; 
Mosaic  tabernacle  the;  bra/e-n  altar  wemlel  not  have; 
been  left  behind  at  Gibe-em  but  would  also  have 
been  oemveyed  to  Alt.  Moriah. 

But  (a)  if  it  was  foolish  and  wrong  for  David  not 
to  lexlge-  the-  ark  in  Gibe-em,  that,  would  neit  make' 
it  certain  that  the  Mosaie:  tabernacle  was  not  at 
Gibe-em.  That  it  was  e;ithor  foolish  or  wremg,  how- 
ever, is  not  clear.  Daviel  may  have  reckone;el  that 
if  the- house  of  Obod-e-dom  had  de-rive-d  special  bless- 
ing from  the  pre-senee;  of  the  ark  in  it  for  three 
months,  possibly  it  would  be;  fe>r  the  be-nefit  of  his 
(David's)  house-  and  kingdom  to  have  the  ark 
permanently  in  his  capital.  Anel  in  additiem, 
David  may  have  remembered  that  Ge>d  had  de-ter- 
mine-el  to  clmoso  eiut  a  place  for  His  ark,  and  in 
answer  to  praye-r  Daviel  may  have  bee-n  elire-e-te-d 
to  fetch  the  ark  to  Je-rus.  As  gexxl  a  suppe>sitiem 
this,  at  any  rate-,  as  that  of  the  crit  ics. 

(b)  That  the   Gibeion   shrine;  shoulel   have  been 
style-el  "the  great  high  plae-e"  (1  K  3  4)  is  hardly 
astonishing,  whe-n  erne  calls  te>  mind  that  it  was  the 
central  sane-tuary,  as  being  the-  seat  of  the;  Mosaic 
tabernacle  with  its  brazen  altar.     Anel  may  not  the 
de-signatiem    "high    place,"    e>r    biimdh,    have:    been 
aflixed  to  it  just  because,  through  want  e>f  its  altar, 
it  had  dwindleel  elown  into  a  me-re  shaelow  of  the 
true  sanctuary  and   beeemie  similar   to  the  other 
"high  places"  or  bamoth? 

(c)  The   casting   of   new   vessels   for   Solomon's 
Temple  needs  no  other  explanation  than  this,  that 
the  new  hemse  was  at  least  twice  as  spacious  as 
the  old,  anel  that  in  any  case  it  was  fitting  that 
the  new  house  shoulel  have  new  furniture. 

(d)  That    the    brazen    altar    wemlel    not    have 
been    left    behind    at    Gibeon    when    the    Meisaic 
tabernacle  was  removed,  may  be  met  by  the  demand 
for  proof  that  it  was  actually  left  behinel.     That  it 
was  left  behind  is  a  pure  conjecture.     That  it  was 
transplanted   to  Jerus  and   alemg  with   the  other 


289/5 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tabernacle 


tabernacle  utensils  laid  up  in  a  side  chamber  of 
the  temple  is  as  likely  an  assumption  as  any  other 
(see  1  K  8  1). 

It   is  maintained  that  the.  Mosaic  tabernacle  could 
not  have  been  produced  ax  Ex  describes:  (1)  that  the 

time  was  too  short,  (2)  that  the 
3.  Third  Israelites  were  too  little  qualified, 
Alleged  and  (3)  that  the  materials  at  their 
Ground  disposal  were  too  scanty  for  the 

construction  of  so  splendid  a  building 
as  the  Mosaic  tabernacle.  Hut,  (1)  does  any  intelli- 
gent person  believe  that  9  months  was  too  short  a 
time  for  600,000  able-bodied  men,  to  say  nothing 
of  their  women  and  children,  to  build  a  wooden  house 
30  cubits  long,  10  high  and  10  broad,  with  not  as 
many  article's  in  it  as  a  well-to-do  artisan's  kitchen 
oftentimes  contains?  (2)  Is  it  at  all  likely  that  they 
were  so  ill-qualified  for  the  work  as  the  objection 
asserts?  The  notion  that  the  Israelites  were  a  horde 
of  savages  or  simply  a  tribe  of  wandering  nomads 
docs  not  accord  with  fact.  They  had  been  bond- 
men, it  is  true,  in  the  land  of  Ham;  but  they  and 
their  fathers  had  lived  there  for  400  years;  and  it,  is 
simply  incredible,  as  even  Knobel  puts  it,  "that 
they  should  not  have  learnt  something  of  the 
mechanical  arts."  One  would  rather  be  disposed 
to  hold  that  they  must  have  had  among  them  at 
the  date  of  the  Exodus  a  considerable  number  of 
skilled  artisans.  At  least,  archaeology  has  shown 
that  if  the  escaped  bondmen  knew  nothing  of  the 
arts  and  sciences,  it  was  not  because  their  quon- 
dam masters  had  not  been  able  to  instruct  them. 
The  monuments  offer  silent  witness  that  every  art 
required  by  the  manufacturers  existed  at  the 
moment,  in  Egypt,  as  e.g.  the  arts  of  metal-working, 
wood-carving,  leather-making,  weaving  and  spin- 
ning. And  surely  no  one  will  contend  that  the 
magnificent  works  of  art,  the  temples  and  tombs, 
palaces  and  pyramids,  that  are  the  world's  wonder 
today,  were  the  production  always  and  exclusively 
of  native  Egyp,  and  never  of  Ileb  thought  and 
labor!  Nor  (3)  is  the  reasoning  good,  that  what- 
ever the  Israelites  might  have  been  able  to  do  in 
Egypt  where;  abundant  materials  lay  to  hand,  they 
were  little  likely  to  excel  in  handicrafts  of  any 
sort  in  a  wilderness  where  such  materials  were 
wanting.  Even  Knobel  could  reply  to  this,  that 
as  the  Israelites  when  they  escaped  from  Egypt 
were  not  a  horde  of  savages,  so  neither  were  they 
a  tribe  of  beggars;  that  they  had  not  entered  on  their 
expedition  in  the  wilderness  without  preparation, 
or  without  taking  with  them  their  most  valuable 
articles;  that  the  quantities  of  gold,  silver  and 
precious  stones  employed  in  the  building  of  the 
tabernacle  were;  but  trifles  in  comparison  with 
other  quantities  of  the  same  that  have  been  found 
in  possession  of  ancient  oriental  peoples;  that  a 
large  portion  of  what  was  contributed  had  prob- 
ably been  obtained  by  despoiling  the  Egyptians 
before  escaping  from  their  toils  and  plundering 
the  Amalekites  whom  they  soon  after  defeated 
at  Rephidim,  and  who,  in  all  likelihood,  at  least  if 
one  may  judge  from  the  subsequent  example  of 
the  Midianites,  had  come  to  the  field  of  war  be- 
decked with  jewels  and  gold;  and  that  the  acacia 
wood,  the  linen,  the  blue,  the  purple  and  the  scarlet, 
with  the  goats',  rams',  and  seal-skins  might  all 
have  been  found  and  prepared  in  the  wilderness 
(cf  Kurtz,  GcKchichte  dc8  alien  Bundes,  II,  §53). 
In  short,  so  decisively  has  this  argument,  derived 
from  the  supposed  deficiency  of  culture  and  re- 
sources on  the  part  of  the  Israelites,  been  disposed 
of  by  writers  of  by  no  means  too  conservative  pro- 
clivit  ies,  that  one  feels  surprised  to  find  it  called 
up  again  by  Benzinger  in  EB  to  do  duty  in  support 
of  the  unhistorical  character  of  the  tabernacle 
narrative  in  Ex. 


The  Bib.  account  of  the  Mosaic  tabernacle,  it 
is  further  contended,  bears  internal  mark*  of  its 

completely  unhistorical  character,  as  e.g. 
4.  Fourth  (1)  that  it  represents  the  tabernacle 
Alleged  as  having  been  constructed  on  a 

Ground  model  which  had  been  supernaturally 

shown  to  Moses;  (2)  that  it  habitually 
speaks  of  the  south,  north,  and  west,  sides  of  the 
tabernacle  although  no  preceding  order  had  been 
issued  that  the  tent  should  be  so  placed;  (3)  that 
the  brazen  altar  is  described  as  made  of  timber 
overlaid  with  brass,  upon  which  a  huge  fire  con- 
stantly burned;  (4)  that,  the  tabernacle  is  depicted, 
not  as  a  mere  provisional  shelter  for  the  ark  upon  the 
march,  but  "as  the  only  legitimate  sanctuary  for 
the  church  of  the  twelve  tribes  before  Solomon"; 
and  (5)  that  the  description  of  the  tabernacle 
furnished  in  P  (Ex  25-31;  36  40;  Nu  2  2.17; 
5  1-4;  14  44)  conflicts  with  that  given  in  E  (Ex 
33  7-11),  both  as  to  its  character  and  its  location. 
But  (1)  why  should  the  story  of  the  tabernacle 
be  a  fiction,  because  Moses  is  reported  to  have  made 
it  according  to  a  pattern  showed  to  him  in  the 
Mount  (Ex  25  40  [Ileb  8  5])?  No  person  says 
that  the  Temple  of  Solomon  was  a  fiction,  because 
David  claimed  that  the  pattern  of  it  given  to  Solo- 
mon had  been  communicated  to  him  (David)  by 
Divine  inspiration  (1  Ch  28  19).  Every  critic  also 
knows  that  Ezekiel  wrote  the  book  that  goes  by 
his  name.  Yet  Ezekiel  asserts  that  the  temple 
described  by  him  was  beheld  by  him  in  a  vision. 
I'nless  therefore  the  supernatural  is  ruled  out  of 
history  altogether,  it  is  open  to  reply  that  God 
could  just  as  easily  have  revealed  to  Moses  the 
pattern  of  the  tabernacle  as  lie  afterward  exhibited 
to  Ezekiel  the  model  of  his  temple.  And  even  if 
God  showed  nothing  to  either  one  prophet  or  the 
other,  the  fact  that  Moses  says  he  saw  the  pattern 
of  the  tabernacle  no  more  proves  that  he  did  not 
write  the  account  of  it,  than  Ezekiel's  stating  that 
he  beheld  the  model  of  his  temple  attests  that 
Ezekiel  never  penned  the  description  of  it.  The 
same  argument  that  proves  Moses  did  not  write 
about  the  tabernacle  also  proves  that  Ezekiel  could 
not  have  written  about  the  vision-temple.  Should 
it  be  urged  that  as  Ezekiel's  temple  was  purely 
visionary  so  also  was  Moses'  tabernacle,  the  argu- 
ment comes  with  small  consistency  and  less  force 
from  those  who  say  that  Ezekiel's  vision-temple  was 
the  model  of  a  real  temple  that  should  afterward  be 
built;  since  if  Ezekiel's  vision-temple  was  (or  should 
have  been,  according  to  the  critics)  converted  into 
a  material  sanctuary,  no  valid  reason  can  be  adduced 
why  Moses'  vision-tabernacle  should  not  also  have 
been  translated  into  an  actual  building. 

(2)  How  the  fact  that  the  tabernacle  had  threo  sides, 
south,  north  and  west,   shows  it  could   not  have    been 
fashioned  by  Moses,  is  one  of  those  mysteries  which  it, 
takes  a  critical  mind  to  understand.     One  naturally  pre- 
sumes that  the  tabernacle  must  have  been  located  some- 
where and  oriented  somehow;   and,  if  it,  had  four  sides,  it 
would  assuredly  suit  as  well  to  set  them  toward  the  four 
quarters  of  heaven  as  in  any  other  way.     But  in  so  depict- 
ing the  tabernacle,  say  the  critics,  the  fiction  writers  who 
invented  the  story  were  actuated  by  a  deep-laid  design 
to  make  the  Mosaic  tabernacle  look  like  the  Temple  of 
Solomon.     Quite  a  harmless  design,  if  it  was  really  enter- 
tained!    But  the  Books  of  1C  and  Ch  will  be  searched  in 
vain  for  any  indication  that  the  Temple  foundations  were 
set  to  the  four  quarters  of  heaven.      It  is  true  that   the 
12   oxen  who  supported   the   molten  sea  in   Solomon's 
Temple  were  so  placed — 4  looking  to  the  N.,  4  to  the  S., 
4   to   the   E.,   and   4  to  the   W.    (1   K   7  25);    but  this 
does  not  necessarily  warrant  the  inference  that  the  sides 
of  the  Temple  were  so  placed.     Hence  on  the  well-known 
principle  of  modern  criticism,  that  when  a  thing  is  not 
mentioned  by  a  writer  the  thing  does  not  exist,  seeing 
that  nothing  is  recorded  about  how  the  temple  was  placed, 
ought  it  not  to  be  concluded  that  the  whole  story  about 
the  Temple  is  a  myth  '.' 

(3)  As  to  the  absurdity  of  representing  a  large 
fire   as   constantly   burning   upon    a   wooden   altar 


Tabernacle 


INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2896 


overlaid  with  a  thin  plate  of  brass,  this  would 
certainly  have  boon  all  that  the  critics  say — a 
fatal  objection  to  receiving  the  story  of  the  taber- 
nacle as  true.  But  if  the  story  was  invented, 
surely  the  inventor  might  have  given  Moses  and 
his  two  skilled  artisans,  Be/alol  and  Oholiab,  sonic 
credit  for  common  sense,  and  not  have  made  them 
do,  or  propose  to  do,  anything  so  stupid  as  to 
try  to  keep  a  large  fire  burning  upon  an  altar  of 
wood.  This  certainly  they  did  not  do.  An 
examination  of  Ex  27  1-S';  38  1-7  makes  it 
clear  that  the  altar  proper  upon  which  "the  strong 
fire"  burned  was  the  earth  or  stone-filled  (Ex  20 
21  f)  hollow  which  the  wooden  and  brass  frame 
inclosed. 

(4)  The  fourth  note  of  fancy — what  Wollhausen 
calls     "the    chief    matter" — that    the    tabernacle 
was  designed  for  a  central  sanctuary  to  the  church 
of  the  Twelve  Tribes  before  the  days  of  Solomon, 
but  never  really  served  in  this  capacity — is  partly 
true  and  partly  untrue.     That  it  was  meant  to  be 
a    central    sanctuary,    until    Jch    should    select    for 
Himself   a  place  of  permanent   habitation,   which 
He   did   in   the  days   of   Solomon,    is   exactly   the 
impression  a  candid  reader  derives  from  Ex,  and 
it  is  gratifying  to  learn  from  so  competent  a  critic 
as  Wcllhauson  that  this  impression  is  correct.     But 
that  it  really  never  served  as  a  central  sanctuary, 
it   is  impossible  to  admit,   after  having  traced  its 
existence  from  the  days  of  Joshua  onward  to  those 
of  Solomon.     That  occasionally  altars  were  erected 
and    sacrifices    offered    at    other    places    than    the 
tabernacle — as  by  (Jideon  at  Ophrah  (Jgs  6  24-27) 
and  by  Samuel  at  Raman  (1ST  17) — is  no  proof 
that  the  tabernacle  was  not  the  central  sanctuary. 
If  it  is,  then  by  parity  of  reasoning  the  altar  in 
Alt.  Ebal  (Dt  27  5)  should  prove  that  Jerus  was 
not  intended  as  a  central  sanctuary.     But,  if  along- 
side of  the  Temple  in  Jerus,  an  altar  in  Ebal  could 
be  commanded,  then  also  alongside  of  the  tabernacle 
it  might  be  legitimate  to  erect  an  altar  and  offer 
sacrifice    for   special    needs.     And    exactly    this    is 
what    was   done.     While   the   tabernacle   was   ap- 
pointed for  a  central  sanctuary  the  earlier  legisla- 
tion was  not  revoked:   "An  altar  of  earth  thou  shalt 
make    unto    me,    and   shalt   sacrifice   thereon  thy 
burnt-offerings,  and  thy  peace-offerings,  thy  sheep, 
and  thine  oxen:   in  every  place  where  I  record  my 
name  I  will  comeunto  thee  and  I  will  bless  thoo"  (Kx 
20  20-     It   was  still   legitimate   to  offer  sacrifice 
in   any  spot  where  Jeh   was  pleased   to  manifest 
Himself    to    His    people.     And    even    though    it 
had  not  been,  the  existence  of  local  shrines  along- 
side of  the  tabernacle  would  no  more  warrant  the 
conclusion  that  the  tabernacle  was  never  built  than 
the   failure  of  the  Christian   church   to   keep   the 
Golden  Rule  would  certify  that  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount  was  never  preached. 

(5)  With  regard   to  the  supposed  want  of  harmony 
between  the  two  descriptions  of  the  tabernacle  in  P  and 
E,  much  depends  on  whether  the  structures  referred  to  in 
these  documents  were  the  same  or  different,     (a)  If  dif- 
ferent, i.e.  if  the  tent  in  K  (Ex  33  7-11)  was  Moses'  tent 
(Kurtz,  Keil,  Kalisch,  Ewald  and  others),  or  a  preliminary 
tent  erected  by  Moses  (Havernick,  Lange,  Kennedy,  and 
A  [I.  1],  above),  or  possessed  by  the  people  from  their  fore- 
fathers (von  Gerlach,  Bonssinger  in  EB),  no  reason  can  bo 
found  why  the  two  descriptions  should  not  have  varied 
as  to  both  the  character  of  the  tent  and  its  location.     Tho 
tent  in  E,  which  according  to  the  supposition  was  purely 
provisional,  a  temporary  sanctuary,  may  well  have  been 
a  simple  structure  and  pitched  outside  the  camp;   while 
tho  tent  in  P  could  just  as  easily  have  been  an  elaborate 
fabric  with  an  ark,  a  priesthood  and  a  complex  sacrificial 
ritual  and  located  in  the  midst  of  the  camp.     In  this 
case  no  ground  can  arise  for  suggesting  that  they  were 
contradictory  of  one  another,  or  that  P's  tent  was  a 
fiction,  a  paper-tabernacle,  while  E's  tent  was  a  reality 
and  the  only  tabernacle  that  ever  existed  in  Israel.     But 
(b)  if  on  the  other  hand  the  tent  in  E  was  the  same  as  tho 
tent  in  P   (Calvin,  Mead  in  Lange,   Konig,  Eerdmans, 
Valeton  and  others),  then  the  question  may  arise  whether 


or  not  any  contradiction  existed  between  (hem.  arid,  if 
such  contradiction  did  exist,  whether  this  justifies  tho 
inference  that  P's  tent  was  unliistorical,  i.e.  never  took 
shape  except  in  tho  writer's  imagination. 

That  the  tent  in  E  was  not  P's  Mosaic  tabernacle 
has  boon  argued  on  the  following  grounds:  («)  that  the 
Mosaic  tabernacle  (assuming  it  to  have;  been  a  reality 
and  not  a  fiction)  was  not  yet  made;  so  that  E's  tent 
must  have  been  either  the  tent  of  Moses  or  a  provisional 
tent :  (li)  that  nothing  is  said  about  a  body  of  priests  and 
Levites  with  an  ark  and  a  sacrificial  ritual  in  connection 
with  E's  tent,  but  only  of  a  non-Levitical  attendant 
.Joshua,  and  (<•)  that  it  was  situated  outside  the  camp, 
whereas  P's  tabernacle  is  always  represented  as  in  the 
midst  of  the  camp. 

The  first  of  these  grounds  largely  disappears  when 
Ex  33  7  is  read  as  in  KV:  "  -Vow  Moses  used  to  take  the 
tent  and  to  pitch  it  without  tho  cam])."  The  verbs, 
being  in  the  imperfect,  point  to  Moses'  practice  (Driver, 
Intro  and  II i- It  7Y/i.xr,s;  cf  Ewald,  Si/ntnx,  34S),  which 
again  may  refer  either  to  the  past  or  to  tho  future,  either 
to  what  Moses  was  in  the  habit  of  doing  with  his  own  or 
the  preliminary  tent,  or  what  he  was  to  do  with  the  tent 
about  to  bo  constructed.  Which  interpretation  is  tho 
right  one  must  be  determined  by  t  he  prior  question  which 
tent  is  intended.  Against  the  idea  of  E's  tent  being 
Moses'  private  domicile  stands  tho  difficulty  of  seeing 
why  it  was  not  called  /n'.s  tent  instead  of  the  tent ,  and  why 
Moses  should  bo  represented  as  never  going  into  it 
except  to  hold  communion  with  Jch.  If  it  was  a  pro- 
visional tent,  struck  up  by  Moses,  why  was  no  mention 
of  its  construction  made?  And  if  it  was  a  sort  of 
national  heirloom  come  down  from  the  forefathers  of 
Israel,  why  does  the  narrative  contain  not  the  slightest 
intimation  of  any  such  thing? 

On  tho  other  hand  if  E's  tent  was  the  same  as  P's,  the 
narrative  does  not  require  to  bo  broken  up;  and  Ex 
33  7-11  Quito  naturally  falls  into  its  place  as  an  explana- 
tion of  how  the  promises  of  vs  3  and  5  were  carried  out 
(see  infra). 

The  second  supposed  proof  that  E's  tent  was  not 
P's  but  an  earlier  one,  viz.  that  P's  had  a  body  of  priests 
and  Levites,  an  ark  and  a  complex  ritual,  while  E's  had 
only  .Joshua  as  attendant  and  made  no  mention  of  ark. 
priests  or  sacrifices,  loses  force,  unless  it  can  be  shown 
that  there  was  absolute  necessity  that  in  this  paragraph 
a  full  description  of  tho  tabernacle  should  bo  pi ven. 
But  obviously  no  such  necessity  existed,  the  object  of 
the  writer  having  been  as  above  explained.  Driver, 
after  Wellhauson  (<?./,  387),  conjectures  that  in  E's  origi- 
nal document  Ex  33  7-11  may  have  been  preceded  "by 
an  account  of  the  construction  of  the  Tent  of  Meeting 
and  of  the  ark,"  and  that  "when  the  narrative  was  com- 
bined with  that  of  P  this  part  of  it  (being  superfluous 
by  the  side  of  chs  25-35)  was  probably  omitted." 
As  this  however  is  only  a  conjecture,  it  is  of  no  moro 
(probably  of  less)  value  than  tho  opinion  that  chs  25-35 
including  33  7-11  proceeded  from  the  same  pen.  Tho 
important  contribution  to  the  interpretation  of  tlu 
passage  is  that  tho  absence  from  the  paragraph  relating 
to  E's  tent  of  the  ark,  priests  and  sacrifices  is  no  valid 
proof  that  E's  tent  was  not  the  Mosaic  tabernacle. 

Tho  third  argument  against  their  identity  is  their 
different  location — E's  outside;  and  P's  inside  the  camp. 
But  it  may  be  argued  (a)  that  the  tr  in  KV  distinctly 
relieves  this  difficulty.  Eor  if  Moses  uxrd  to  take  and 
pitch  the  tabernacle  outside  the  cam]),  the  natural  impli- 
cation is  that  the  tabernacle  was  often,  perhaps  usually, 
inside  the  camp,  as  in  P,  and  only  from  time  to  time 
pitched  outside  the  camp,  when  Jeh  was  displeased  with 
the  people  (Eerdmans,  Valeton),  Or  (2)  that  "outside 
the  cam])"  may  signify  away,  at  an  equal  distance  from 
all  the  four  camps  ("over  against  the  tent  of  meeting" 
— in  AV  "far  off,"  after  Josh  3  4 — were  the  various 
tribes  with  their  standards,  i.e.  the  four  camps,  to  be 
pitched ;  N'u  2  2) ;  so  that  the  tabernacle  might  easily 
be  in  tho  midst  of  all  the  camps  and  yet  "outside"  and 
"far  off"  from  each  camp  separately,  thus  requiring 
every  individual  who  sought  the  Lord  to  go  out  from  his 
camp  unto  the  tabernacle.  Nu  11  26-30  may  perhaps 
shed  light  upon  the  question.  There  it  is  stated  that 
"there  remained  two  men  in  tho  camp  [who]  had  not  gone 
out  with  Moses  unto  the  Tent,"  and  that  Moses  and  the 
elders  after  leaving  the  tent,  "gat  [them]  into  the  earn])." 
Either  the  tent  at  this  time  was  in  the  center  of  the 
square,  around  which  tho  four  camps  were  stationed,  or 
it  was  outside.  If  it  was  outside,  then  the  first  of  the 
foregoing  explanations  will  hold  good;  if  it  was  inside 
the  camp,  then  the  second  suggestion  must  be  adopted, 
viz.  that  while  the  camps  were  round  about  the  taber- 
nacle, the  tabernacle  was  outside  each  camp.  "Al- 
though the  tabernaclo  stood  in  tho  midst  of  the  camp, 
yet  it  was  practically  separated  from  tho  tents  of  the 
tribes  by  an  open  space  and  by  the  encampment  of  the 
Levites"  (Pulpit  Comm.,  in  loc.;  cf  Keil,  in  loc.).  When 
one  calls  to  mind  that  the  tabernacle  was  separated  from 
each  side  of  the  square  probably,  as  in  Josh  3  4,  by 
2,000  cubits  (at  19-25  in.  each  =about  J  of  a  mile),  one 
has  small  difficulty  in  understanding  how  the  tabernacle 
could  be  both  outside  the  several  camps  and  inside  them 
all;  how  the  two  promises  in  Ex  33  (AV) — "  I  will  not  go 
up  in  the  midst  of  thee  "  (ver  3)  and  "I  will  come  up  into 


2X97 


Till-]  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIMLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tabernacle 


tilt-  midst  of  thee"  (ver.ri)-  -might  be  fulfilled  ;  how  Moses 
and  the  ciders  could  go  out  from  the  camp  (i.e.  their 
several  ramps)  to  the  tabernacle  and  after  leaving  the 
tabernacle  return  to  the  ramp  (i.e.  their  several  camps); 
and  how  no  insuperable  dilllcult  y  in  t  he  shape  of  an  insol- 
uble contradiction  exists  between  E's  account  and  P's. 

That  Ike  preexilic  prophets  knew  nothing  about  the 
Levitical  system  of  which  the  tabernacle  was  the 

center  is  regarded  as  perhaps  the 
6.  Fifth  strongest  proof  that  the  tabernacle 

Alleged  had  no  existence  in  the  wilderness  and 

Ground          indeed  never  existed  at  all  except  on 

paper.  The  assertion  about  the  igno- 
rance of  the  preexilic  prophets  as  to  the  sacrificial 
system  of  the  PC  has  been  so  often  made  that  it 
has  come  to  be  a  "commonplace"  and  "stock- 
phrase"  of  modern  criticism.  In  particular, 
Amos  in  the  Sth  cent.  BC  (5  2.1. 20)  and  Jeremiah 
in  the  7th  cent.  BC  (7  21-23)  are  quoted  as  having 
publicly  taught  that  no  such  sacrificial  ritual  as 
the  tabernacle  implied  had  been  promulgated  in 
the  wilderness.  But,  if  these  prophets  were  aware 
that  the  Levitical  Law  had  not  been  given  by  Moses, 
one  would  like  to  know,  (1)  how  this  interpretation 
of  their  language  had  been  so  long  in  being  dis- 
covered; (2)  how  the  critics  themselves  are  not 
unanimous  in  accepting  this  interpretation — which 
they  are  not;  (3)  how  Amos  could  represent  Jeh 
as  saying  "I  hate,  I  despise  your  feasts,  and  I  will 
take  no  delight  in  your  solemn  assemblies.  Yea, 
though  ye  offer  me  your  burnt-offerings  and 
meal-offerings,  I  will  not  accept  them;  neither  will 
1  regard  the  peace-offerings  of  your  fat  beasts" 
(5  21.22),  if  Jeh  had  never  accepted  and  never 
enjoined  them;  (4)  how  Jeremiah  could  have  been 
a  party  to  putting  forward  Dt  as  a  work  of  Moses  if 
he  knew  that  Jeh  had  never  commanded  sacrifices 
to  be  offered,  which  Dt  does;  and  (5)  how  Jeremiah 
could  have  blamed  Judah  for  committing  spiritual 
adultery  if  Jeh  had  never  ordered  the  people  to 
offer  sacrifice. 

In  reply  to  (1)  it  will  scarcely  do  to  answer  that  all 
previous  interpreters  of  Am  and  Jer  had  failed  to 
read  the  prophets'  words  as  they  stand  (Am  5  25. 
20;  Jer  7  22),  because  the  question  would  then 
arise  why  the  middle  books  of  the  Pent  should  not 
also  be  re:id  as  they  stand,  as  e.g.  when  they  say, 
"The  Lord  spake  unto  Moses,"  and  again  "These 
[the  legislative  contents  of  the  middle  books]  are 
the  commandments,  which  Jeh  commanded  Moses 
for  the  children  of  Israel  in  mount  Sinai"  (Lev  27 
34).  As  for  (2)  it  is  conveniently  forgotten  that 
Bohlen  (Intro  to  Gen,  I,  277)  admitted  that  some  of 
the  Pent  "might  possibly  have  originated  in  the 
time  of  Moses,"  and  when  quoting  Jer  7  22  never 
dreamt  of  putting  forward  an  explanation  different 
from  the  orthodox  rendering  of  the  same,  and  cer- 
tainly did  not  cite  it  as  a  proof  that  the  Law  had 
no  existence  prior  to  the  exile;  that  De  Wette  in 
his  Einlcilnng  (261,  262,  Sth  ed)  stated  that  "the 
holy  laws  and  institutions  of  the  theocratic  people 
had  for  their  author  Moses,  who  in  giving  them  stood 
under  Divine  guidance";  that  Knobel  (Die  Biirher 
Ex  und  Lev,  xxii)  explicitly  declared  that  Moses 
must  be  regarded  not  only  as  the  liberator  and 
founder  of  his  people,  but  also  the  originator  of  the 
peculiar  Israeli) ish  constitution  and  lawgiving,  at 
least  in  its  fundamental  (dements;  that  Ewald  (Die 
Prophelen,  II,  123)  regarded  Jer  7  22  as  making 
no  announcement  about  the  origin  of  the  sacrificial 
cultus;  and  that  Bleek  (Intro  to  the  OT)  forgot  to 
read  the  modern  critical  interpretation  into  the 
words  of  Amos  and  Jeremiah  for  the  simple  reason 
that  to  have  done  so  would  have  stultified  his  well- 
known  view  that  many  of  the  laws  of  the  middle 
books  of  the  Pent  are  of  Mosaic  origin.  Nor  is  the 
difficulty  (3)  removed  by  holding  that,  if  prior  to 
the  days  of  Amos  Jeh  did  accept  the  burnt  offerings 


and  meal  offerings  of  Israel,  these,  were  not  sacri- 
fices that  had  been  appointed  in  the  wilderness, 
because  Jeh  Himself  appears  to  intimate  (Am  6 
2"). 20)  that  no  such  sacrifices  or  offerings  had  been 
made;  during  the  whole  40  years'  wandering.  Had 
this  been  the  case,  it  is  not  easy  to  see  why  the  post- 
exilic  authors  of  the  PC  should  have  asserted  the 
contrary,  should  have  represented  sacrifices  as 
having  been  offered  in  the  wilderness,  as  they  have 
done  (see  Xu  16,  18).  The  obvious  import  of 
Jell's  language  is  either  that  the  sacrificial  worship 
which  lie  had  commanded  had  been  largely  neg- 
lected by  the  people,  or  that  it,  had  been  so  heart  less 
and  formal  that  it  was  no  true  worship  at  all  - 
their  real  worship  being  given  to  their  idols — and 
that  as  certainly  as  the  idolaters  in  the  wilderness 
were  excluded  from  Canaan,  so  the  idolaters  in 
Amos'  day,  unless  they  repented,  would  be  carried 
away  into  exile.  As  to  (4)  Jeremiah's  action  in 
putting  forward  or  helping  to  put  forward  Dt  as  a 
work  of  Moses  when  he  knew  that  it  represented 
Jeh  as  having  commanded  sacrifices  to  be  offered 
both  in  the  wilderness  and  in  Canaan  (Dt  12  6.11. 
13),  and  must  have  been  aware  as  well  that  JE 
had  ^represented  Jeh  as  commanding  sacrifice  at 
Sinai  (Ex  20  21.25),  no  explanation  can  be  of- 
fered that  will  clear  the  prophet  from  the  charge 
of  duplicity  and  insincerity,  or  prevent  his  classi- 
fication with  the  very  men  who  were  a  grief  of  mind 
to  him  and  against  whom  a  large  part  of  his  life 
was  spent  in  contending,  viz.  the  prophets  that 
prophesied  lies  in  the  name  of  Clod.  Nor  does 
it  mend  matters  to  suggest  (Cheyne)  that  when 
Jeremiah  perceived  that  Dt,  though  floated  into 
publicity  under  high  patronage,  did  not  take  hold, 
he  changed  his  mind,  because  in  the  first  place  if 
Jeremiah  did  so,  he  should,  like  an  honest  man, 
have  washed  his  hands  clear  of  Dt,  which  he  did  not; 
and  in  the  second  place,  because  had  he  done  so  he 
could  not  have  been  "the  iron  pillar  and  brazen 
wall"  which  Jeh  had  intended  him  to  be  and  indeed 
had  promised  to  make  him  against  the  princes, 
priests  and  people  of  the  land  (1  IS).  And,  still 
further,  (5)  it  passes  comprehension  how,  if  Jeh 
never  commanded  His  people  to  offer  sacrifice  to 
Him,  Jeremiah  could  have  represented  Jeh  as  en- 
joining him  to  pronounce  a  curse  upon  the  inhab- 
itants of  Jerus  because  they  transgressed  the  words 
of  Jeh's  covenant,  which  He  had  made  with  their 
fathers  in  the  day  when  He  brought  them  out  of  the 
land  of  Egypt,  by  running  after  other  gods  to  serve 
them,  setting  up  altars  and  burning  incense  unto 
Baal  and  even  working  lewdness  in  Jeh's  house 
(Jer  11  1-15).  It  is  urged  in  answer  to  this,  that 
the  offence  complained  of  was  not  that  the  men  of 
Judah  did  not  offer  sacrifices  to  Jeh,  but  that  they 
offered  them  to  Baal  and  polluted  His  temple  with 
heathen  rites — -that  what  Jeh  demanded  from  His 
worshippers  was  not  the  offering  of  sacrifice,  but 
obedience  to  the  moral  law  conjoined  with  absti- 
nence from  idolatry.  But  in  that  case,  what  was  the 
use  of  a  temple  at  all?  And  why  should  Jeh  speak 
of  it  as  "mine  house,"  if  sacrifices  were  not  required 
to  be  offered  in  it  (cf  on  this  Kittel,  The  Scientific 
Study  of  the  OT,  218)?  Why  idolatrous  sacrifices 
were  denounced  was  not  merely  because  they  were 
wrong  in  themselves,  but  also  because  they  had 
supplanted  the  true  sacrificial  worship  of  Jeh. 
As  already  stated,  it  is  not  easy  to  perceive  how 
Jeremiah  could  have  said  that  Jeh  had  never  com- 
manded sacrifices  to  be  offered  to  Him,  when  he 
(Jeremiah)  must  have  known  that  the  Book  of  the 
Covenant  in  JE  (Ex  20  24.25)  represented  Jeh 
as  expressly  enjoining  them.  Had  Jeremiah  not 
read  the  Book  of  the  Covenant  with  sufficient  care? 
This  is  hardly  likely  in  so  earnest  a  prophet.  Or 
will  it  be  lawful  to  suggest  that  Jeremiah  knew  the 


Tab.  of  Testimony 
Table  of  Nations 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2898 


Book  of  the  Covenant  to  be  a  fiction  and  the  assump- 
tion of  Divine  authority  for  its  enactments  to  be 
merely  a  rhetorical  device?  In  this  case  his  words 
might  be  true;  only  one  cannot  help  regretting 
that  he  did  not  distinctly  state  that  in  his  judgment 
the  Book  of  the  Covenant  was  a  fraud. 

It  may  now  ho  added  in  confirmation  of  the  preceding, 
that  the  various  references  to  u  tabernacle  in  the  NT 
appear  at  least  to  imply  that  in  the  1st  Christian  cent. 
the  historicity  of  the  Mosaic  tabernacle  was  generally 
accepted.  These  references  are  Peter's  exclamation  on 
the  Mount  of  Transfiguration  (Mt  17  4;  Mk  9  .r>; 
Lk  9  :5:5);  Stephen's  statement  in  the  council  (Acts  7 
44);  the  affirmations  in  He  (chs  8,  9);  and  the  voice 
which  John  heard  out  of  heaven  (Rev  21  •*)•  It  may 
1)0  admitted  that  taken  separately  or  unitedly  these 
utterances  do  not  amount  to  a  conclusive  demonstration 
that  the  tabernacle  actually  existed  in  the  wilderness; 
but  read  in  the  light  of  ()T  declarations  that  such  a 
tabernacle  did  exist  ,  they  have  the  force  of  a  confirmation. 
If  the  language  of  Peter  and  that  of  John  may  fairly 
enough  bo  regarded  as  figurative,  even  then  their  symbol- 
ism suggests,  as  its  basis,  what  Stephen  and  the  writer  to 
the  lie  affirm  to  have  been  a  fact,  viz.  that  their  "fathers 
had  the  tabernacle  .  .  .  .  in  the  wilderness."  and  that,  under 
the  first  covenant,  "  there  was  a  tabernacle  prepared." 

LITERATURE.  —  I,  critical:  De  Wetto,  Bfitrft</c;  yon 
Bohlen,  (i>  nesis;  (ioorg,  J  it/lixclif  Feate;  Keuss,  Citxrhichte 
der  hriliijtm  Srhriflcn  </<•••!  AT;  Uraf,  de  Ti'mplo 
Siloni'nsi;  Kuenen,  Tin:  E,  Union  of  Israel;  Well- 
hansen,  Pi-oli-i/ii/tit'/in  ziir  (,''  xc/i  ii-fitf  Ixrtn-ls;  If  I)  li 

and  KB,  arts.  "Tabernacle."     II,  conservative  :   Breden- 

kamp,  (Sixi'tz  und  J'ro  plicten;  Kurt/,  Grxchirhtr  dix 
altcn  Bandix;  lliivernick,  h'inli  it  u  ni/;  Hengstenberg. 
E,n/pt  und  tin-  B,,,,k.i  ,,f  Moses;  Uiehm,  rinndtrdrtcrhurh, 
and  Her/of?,  RE  (ed  1;  ed  :i  is  "critical"),  arts.  "Stifts- 
hiitto";  Baxter,  Sanctuary  and  Sacrifice;  Hissoll.  The 
I'tntateuch:  Itx  Origin  and  Xtmrturi';  Orr,  The  1'roblvm 
of  the  OT;  Whitelaw,  OT  Critics. 

T.  WHITELAW 

TABERNACLE  OF  TESTIMONY  (WITNESS) 
(Nu  9  Lr>;  2  Ch  24  (i,  HV  "the  lent  of  the  testi- 
mony"). See  TABKKXACI.K. 

TABERNACLES,  FEAST  OF.  See  FKASTS  AND 
FASTS,  1,  .4,  3. 


TABITHA,    tab'i-tha 
Done  AS. 


Tabeithd}.    See 


TABLE:  "Table"  is  derived  from  the  Lat  tabuln, 
meaning  primarily  "a  board,"  but  with  a  great 
variety  of  other  significances,  of  which  "writing- 
tablet"  is  the  most  important  for  the  Bib.  use  of 
"table."  So  in  Eng.  "table"  meant  at  first  "any 
surface"  and,  in  particular,  "a  surface  for  writing," 
and  further  specialization  was  needed  before  "table" 
became  the  name  of  the  familiar  article  of  furniture 
("object  with  a  horizontal  surface"),  a  meaning  not 
possessed  by  lulntla  in  Lat.  After  this  specializa- 
tion "table"  in  the  sense  of  "a  surface  for  writing" 
was  replaced  iti  later  Eng.  by  the  diminutive  form 
"tablet."  But  "surface  for  writing"  was  still  a 
common  meaning  of  "table,"  and  in  this  sense  it 
represents  HP,b  ,  lu"h  (Ex  24  12,  etc),  a  word  of 
uncertain  origin,  7rXd£,  plti.r,  "something  flat"  (2 
Cor  3  3;  He  9  4),  SAros,  delloK,  "a  writing  tablet" 
(I  Mace  8  22;  14  18.27.4S),  or  Triva.K[8iov,  pinakl- 
dion,  "writing  tablet"  (Lk  1  03  —  a  rather  unusual 
word).  ARV  has  kept  the  word  in  the  familiar 
combination  "tables  of  stone"  (Ex  24  12,  etc), 
but  elsewhere  (Prov  33;  73;  Isa  30  8;  Jer  17 
1;  Ilab  2  2;  Lk  1  63)  has  replaced  "table"  by 
"tablet,"  a  change  made  by  ERV  only  in  Isa  30  8; 
Lk  1  G3.  See  TAHLKT. 

The  table  as  an  article  of  furniture  is  'JH-'Tp, 
shulhdn,  in  the  Heb  and  Tpcurefa,  tnipczd,  in  the  Gr. 
The  only  exceptions  are  Cant  1  12,  SDTQ  ,  mcsabh, 
"something  round,"  perhaps  a  "round  table,"  per- 
haps a  "cushion,"  perhaps  a  "festal  procession," 
and  Mk  7  4,  AV  K\lvi),  Mine,  "couch"  (so  RV), 
while  .In  13  28  and  .In  12  2,  AV  "at  the  table," 
and  Tob  7  8,  AV  "on  the  table,"  represent  only 
the  general  sense  of  the  original.  Of  the  two  regu- 


lar words,  shulhdn  is  properly  "a  piece  of  hide," 
and  so  "a  leather  mat,"  placed  on  the  ground  at 
meal  time,  but  the  word  came  to  mean  any  "table," 
however  elaborate  (e.g.  Ex  25  23-30).  Trapeza 
means  "having  four  feet." 

2  K  4  10  seems  to  indicate  that  a  table  was  a 
necessary  article  in  even  the  simpler  rooms.  Curi- 
ously enough,  however,  apart  from  the  table  of 
shewbread  there  is  no  reference  in  the  Bible  to  the 
form  or  construction  of  tables,  but  the  simpler 
tables  in  Pal  of  the  present  day  are  very  much  lower 
than  ours.  The  modern  "tables  of  the  money 
changers"  (Mk  11  15  and  ji's)  are  small  square 
trays  on  stands,  and  they  doubtless  had  the  same 
form  in  NT  times.  See  SHEWBREAD,  TABLE  OF; 
MONEY-CHANGERS. 

To  eat  at  a  king's  table  (2  S  9  7,  etc)  is  naturally 
to  enjoy  a  position  of  great  honor,  and  the  privilege 
is  made  by  Christ  typical  of  the  highest  reward 
(Lk  22  30).  Usually  "to  eat  at  one's  table"  is 
meant  quite  literally,  but  in  1  K  18  19;  Neh  5  17 
fcf  1  K  10  5)  it,  probably  means  "bo  fed  at  one's 
expense."  On  the  other  hand,  the  misery  of  eating 
the  leavings  of  a  table  (Jgs  1  7;  Mk  7  28;  Lk  16 
21)  needs  no  comment.  The  phrase  "table  of  the 
Lord  [Jeh]"  in  Mai  1  7.12  AV  (<rf  Ezk  41  22;  44  Hi 
— Ezk  39  20  is  quite  different)  means  "the  table 
[altar]  set  before  the  Lord,"  but  the  same  phrase 
in  1  Cor  10  21  is  used  in  a  different  sense  and  the 
origin  of  its  use  by  St.  Paul  is  obscure.  Doubtless 
the  language,  if  not  the  meaning,  of  Mai  had  its 
influence  and  may  very  well  have  been  suggested  to 
St.  Paid  as  he  wrote  "l  Cor  10  18.  On  the  other 
hand,  light  may  be  thrown  on  the  passage  by  such 
a  papyrus  fragment  as  "Chareimon  invites  you  to 
dine  at  the  table  [klinc]  of  the  lord  Serapis,"  a 
formal  invitation  to  an  idol-banquet  (1  Cor  8  10; 
Pap.  Oxyr.  i.110;  of  iii.r>23).  This  would  explain 
St.  Paul's  "table  of  demons" — a  phrase  familiar  to 
the  Corinthians — and  he  wrote  "table _of  the  Lord" 
to  correspond  (of,  however,  Pirkc  'Ablioth,  iii.4). 
"Table  at  which  the  Lord  is  Host,"  at  any  rate,  is 
the  meaning  of  the  phrase.  On  the  whole  passage 
see  the  comms.,  esp.  that  of  Lietzmann  (fullest 
references).  Probably  Lk  22  30  has  no  bearing  on 
1  Cor  10  21.  The  meaning  of  Ps  69  22  (quoted 
in  Rom  11  9),  "Let  their  table  before  them  become 
a  snare,"  is  very  obscure  ("let  them  be  attacked 
while  deadened  in  revelings"  ?),  and  perhaps  was 
left  intentionally  vague. 

BURTO.V  SCOTT  EASTON 

TABLE  OF  NATIONS: 

1.  The  Table  and  Its  Object 

2.  What  It  Includes  and  Kxcludes 
:*.   Order  of  the  Three  Kaccs 

4.  Extent  of  Kaon 
f>.  Sons  of  .lapheth 
0.  Sons  and  Descendants  of  11am 

7.  Further  Descendants  of  Ham 

8.  Sons  of  Shorn 

9.  Further  Descendants  of  Sliem 

10.  Value  of  Table  and  Its  Historical  Notes 

1 1.  Further  Arguments  for  Early  Date  of  Table 

This  is  the  expression  frequently  used  to  indicate 
"the  generations  of  the  sons  of  Noah"  contained  in 

Gen  10.  These  occupy  the  whole 
1.  The  chapter,  and  are  supplemented  by  the 

Table  and  first  9  verses  of  ch  11,  which  explain 
Its  Object  how  it  came  about  that  there  were  so 

many  languages  in  the  world  as  known 
to  the  Hebrews.  The  remainder  of  ch  11  traces  the 
descent  of  Abram,  and  repeats  a  portion  of  the 
information  contained  in  ch  10  on  that  account  only. 
The  whole  is  seemingly  intended  to  lead  up  to  the 
patriarch's  birth. 

Noah  and  his  family  being  the  only  persons  left 
alive  after  the  Flood,  the  Table  naturally  begins 
with  them,  and  it  is  from  his  three  sons,  Shem,  Ham 
and  Japheth,  that  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth, 


2S99 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tab.  of  Testimony 
Table  of  Nations 


us  known   to   the    Hebrews,    wore   descended.     All 

others — the  Mongolians  of  the  Far  East  and  Japan, 

the    American    Indians,    both     North 

2.  What  It    and   South,    the   natives  of    Australia 
Includes        and     New     Zealand — were     naturally 
and  omitted    from    the    list.      It    may,    of 
Excludes        course,  be  argued  that  all  the  nations 

not  regarded  as  descended  from  Shein 
and  Japheth  might  be  included  among  the  de- 
scendants of  Ham;  but  apart  from  the  fact  that  this 
would  give  to  Ham  far  more  than  his  due  share  of 
the  human  race,  it  would  class  the  Egyptians  and 
Canaanites  with  the  Mongolians,  Indians,  etc,  which 
seems  improbable.  "The  Table  of  Nations,"  in 
fact ,  excludes  t  he  races  of  which  t  he  Sern  East  was  in 
ignorance,  and  which  could  not,  therefore,  be  given 
according  to  their  lands,  tongues,  families,  and 
nations  (('Jen  10  5.20.31). 

Notwithstanding  that  the  sons  of  Noah  are  here  (ver  1) 

and  elsewhere  mentioned  in  the  order  Shorn,  Ham  and 

Japheth     (5  :52;     6   10),    and    Ham    was 

3.  Order  of    apparently    the   youngest    (see    HAM),    the 
th^Throo       Table  begins    (ver  2)   with  Japheth,  enu- 
merates   then    the    descendants    of    Ham 

Races  (ver  (>),  and   finishes  with  those  of  Shorn 

(ver  21).  This  order  in  all  probability 
indicates  the  importance  of  each  race  in  the  eyes  of  tho 
Hebrews,  who  as  Semites  were  naturally  interested  most 
in  the  descendant's  of  Shorn  with  whom  the  list  ends. 
This  enabled  the  compiler  to  continue  the  enumeration  of 
shem's  descendants  in  11  12  immediately  after  the  verses 
dealing  with  t  lie  building  of  the  Tower  of  Babel  and  the 
Confusion  of  Tongues. 

The  numbers  of  the  descendants  of  each  son  of  Noah, 
however,  probably  bear  witness  to  the  compiler's  knowl- 
edge, rather  than  their  individual  impor- 
4    'Fytpnt  of  tanoo  in  his  eyes.     Thus  the  more  remote; 
•*.  £,AI          JL  ;ind  k>ss  kn()W-n  racc  ()f  japheth  js  credited 

r/acri  with    14  descendants   only  (7  sons   and  7 

grandsons),  while  Ham  has  no  less  than  29 
descendants  (4  sons,  23  grandsons,  and  2  great-grand- 
sons), and  Shorn  the  same  (5  sons,  5  grandsons,  1  great- 
grandson,  and  20  remoter  descendants  to  tho  (it  h  genera- 
tion). Many  of  the  descendants  of  Shorn  and  Ham, 
however,  are  just  as  obscure  as  the  descendants  of  Ja- 
pheth. How  far  the  relationship  to  the  individual  sons 
of  Noah  is  to  be  taken  literally  is  uncertain.  The  earlier 
names  are  undoubtedly  those  of  nations,  while  afterward 
we  have,  possibly,  merely  tribes,  and  in  ch  11  the  list 
develops  into  a  genealogical  list  of  individuals. 

It  is  difficult,  to  trace  a  clear  system  in  the  enu- 
meration   of    the    names    in    the    Table.     In    the 
immediate  descendants  of  Japheth  (10 

5.  Sons  of     2),  (Joiner,  Magog,  Tubal  and  Mesech, 
Japheth          we  have  the  principal  nations  of  Asia 

Minor,  but  Madai  stands  for  the 
Medes  on  the  extreme  E.,  and  Javan  (the  lonians) 
for  the  Greeks  (?  and  Romans)  on  the  extreme 
W.  (unless  the  Greeks  of  Asia  Minor  were  meant). 
Gomer's  descendants  apparently  located  themselves 
northward  of  this  tract,  while  the  sons  of  Javan 
extended  themselves  along  the  Mediterranean  coast- 
lands  westward,  Tarshish  standing,  apparently,  for 
Spain,  Kittim  being  the  Cyprians,  and  Rodanim  the 
Rhodians. 

Coming  to  tho  immediate  descendants  of  Ham 
(10  6),  the  writer  begins  with  those  on  the  S.  and 

then  goes  northward  in  the  following 

6.  Sons  and  order:    Gush  or  Ethiopia,  Mizraim  or 
Descend-       Egypt,  Phut   (better  Put,  RV)  by  the 
ants  of  Red  Sea,  and  lastly  Canaan — the  Holy 
Ham  Land — afterward  occupied  by  the  Is- 
raelites.    The  sons  of  Cush,  which  fol- 
low    (10  7),   are    apparently    nationalities   of   the 
Arabian  coast,  where.  Egyp  influence  was  predomi- 
nant.    These,  with  the  sons  of  Raamah,  embrace 
the   interior  of  Africa  as  known  to  the  Hebrews, 
and  the   Arabian  tract  as  far  as  Canaan,  its  ex- 
treme northern  boundary.     The  reference  to  Baby- 
lonia (Nimrod)  may  be  regarded  as  following  not 
unnaturally    here,    and    prominence    is    given    to 
the   district    on    account    of    its   importance    and 
romantic    history    from    exceedingly    early    times. 
Nevertheless,  this  portion  (10  8-12)  reads  like  an 


interpolation,  as  it  not  only  records  the  foundation 
of  the  cities  of  Babylonia,  but  those  of  Assyria  as 
well — the  country  mentioned  lower  down  (ver  22) 
among  the  children  of  Shcm. 

The  text  then  goes  back  to  the  W.  again,  and 

enumerates  the  sons  of  Mizraim  or  Egypt.  (10   l.'ij, 

mostly    located    on    the    southeastern 

7.  Further     and    eastern    shores   of    tho    M editor- 
Descend-       ranean.     These;  include;  the   "Libyans 
ants  of  in    the    narrowest    sense"    (Lehabim), 
Ham                two  districts  regarded  as  Egyp  (Naph- 

tuhirn  and  Pathrusim),  the  Casluhim 
from  whom  came;  t  he  Philist  ines,  and  t  he  Capht  orim, 
probably  not,  the  Cappadocians  of  the  Tgs,  but  the 
island  of  Crete,  "because  such  a  large  island  ought 
not  to  be  wanting"  (Dilhnann).  The  more  impor- 
tant settlements  in  the  Canaanitish  sphere  of  influ- 
ence are  referred  to  as  the  sons  of  Canaan  (10  1">) — 
Sidon,  Ileth  (the  Hittitcs),  the  Jebusites  (\\lio  wen; 
in  occupation  of  Jerus  when  the  Israelites  took  it), 
tho  Amorites  (whom  Abraham  found  in  Canaan), 
and  others.  Among  tho  sons  of  Canaan  are,  like- 
wise, the  Girgashitos,  the  Arkites  and  Sinites  near 
Lebanon,  the  Arvadites  of  the  coast,  and  the  Harna- 
thites,  in  whose  capital,  Hamath,  many  hieroglyphic 
inscriptions  regarded  as  records  of  the  Hittites  or 
people  of  Heth  have  boon  found.  It  is  possibly 
to  this  occupation  of  more  or  less  outlying  positions 
that  the  "spreading  abroad"  of  the  families  of  the 
Canaanites  (10  IS)  refers.  In  10  19  the  writer  has 
been  careful  to  indicate  "the  border  of  the  Canaan- 
ites," that  being  of  importance  in  view  of  the  his- 
torical narrative  which  was  to  follow;  and  here  he 
was  evidently  on  familiar  ground. 

In  his  final  section — the  nations  descended  from 
Shorn  (10  21) — the  compiler  again  begins  with 

the  farthest  situated — the  Elamites — 

8.  Sons  of     after  which  wo  have  Asshtir  (Assyria), 
Shem  to  the  N.W.;  Arpachshad  (?  the  Chal- 

daeans),  to  the  W.;  Lud  (Lydia),  N.W. 
of  Assyria;  and  Aram  (the  Aramaean  states),  S. 
of  Lud  and  W.  of  Assyria.  The  tribes  or  states 
mentioned  as  the  sons  of  Aram  (Fz,  Hul,  Get  her 
and  Mash),  however,  do  not  give  the  names  with 
which  we  are  familiar  in  the  OT  (Aram  Naharaim, 
Aram  Zobah,  etc),  and  have  evidently  to  be  sought 
in  different  positions,  indicating  that  they  represent 
an  earlier  stage  of  their  migrations.  With  regard 
to  their  positions,  it  has  been  suggested  that  Fz  lay 
ia  the  neighborhood  of  the  Hauran  and  Damascus; 
IIul  near  the  Sea  of  Galilee;  and  that  Mash  stands 
for  Mons  Masius.  This  last,  however,  may  have 
been  the  land  of  Mas,  W.  of  Babylonia. 

Only  one  son  is  attributed  to  Arpachshad,  namely, 

Shelah    (shalah,    shelah,    10  24),    unidentified   as  a 

nationality.     This  name  should,  how- 

9.  Further     ever,  indicate  some  part  of  Babylonia, 
Descend-       esp.  if  his  son,  Eber,  was  the  ancestor 
ants  of  of  the  Hebrews,  who  wore  apparently 
Shem  migrants    from     Fr     (Mugheir)     (see 

ABRAHAM;  UR  OF  THE  CHALDEES). 
Though  Peleg,  ''in  whose  days  the  land  was  divided," 
may  not  have  been  an  important  link  in  the  chain, 
the  explanatory  phrase  needs  notice.  It  may 
refer  to  the  period  when  the  fertilizing  watercourses 
of  Babylonia — the  "rivers  of  Babylon"  (Ps  137  1) — 
were  first  constructed  (one  of  their  names  was  pclcgli), 
or  to  the  time  when  Babylonia  was  divided  into  a 
number  of  small  states,  though  this  latter  seems  to 
bo  less  likely.  Alternative  renderings  for  Solah, 
Eber  and  Peleg  are  "sending  forth"  (Bohlen), 
"crossing"  (the  Euphrates),  and  "separation" 
(of  the  Joktanites)  (Bohlen),  respectively. 

The  Bab  geographical  fragment  80-0-17,  504  has  a 
group  explained  as  1'ulukku,  perhaps  a  modifu  d  form  of 
Peleg,  followed  by  (1'ulukku)  Ha  (birti.  "Pulukku  of 
the  crossing,"  the  last  word  being  from  the  same  root  as 


Tablet 
Tabor,  Mount 


TIIK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2900 


Ebor.  Tills  probably  indicates  a  city  on  one  side  of  the 
river  (?  Euphrates),  at  a  fordable  point,  and  a  later 
foundation  bearing  the  same  name  on  the  other  side. 

Ron,  Strug,  and  Xahor,  however,  arc  regarded 
generally  as  place-names,  and  Tenth  as  a  personal 
name  (the  father  of  Abram,  Xahor  and  Haran). 
From  this  point  on \vard  the  text  (11  27)  becomes 
the  history  of  the  Israelitish  nation,  beginning  with 
these  patriarchs. 

Arguments  for   it*   early   dale. — There   is   hardly 

any    doubt    that    we    have    in    this  ethnographical 

section  of  (Ion  one  of  the  most  valuable; 

10.  Value       records  of   its  kind.     Concerning   the 
of  Table         critic-isms   upon    it   which   have   been 
and  Its  made,    such    things   are   unavoidable, 
Historical       and  must,  be  regarded  as  quite  legit  i- 
Notes              mate,  in  view  of  the  importance  of  the 

subject.  The  interpolated  sections 
concerning  Nimrod  and  t  he  Tower  of  Babel  are  such 
as  would  be  expected  in  a  record  in  which  the  com- 
piler aimed  at  giving  all  the  information  which  ho 
could,  and  which  lie  thought  desirable  for  the  com- 
plete understanding  of  his  record.  It  may  be  re- 
garded as  possible  that  this  information  was  given 
in  view  of  the  connection  of  Abraham  with  Baby- 
lonia. In  his  time  there  wen;  probably  larger 
cities  than  Babylon,  and  this  would  suggest  that 
the  building  of  the  Bab  capital  may  have  boon 
arrested.  At  the  time  of  the  captivity  on  the  other 
hand,  Babylon  was  the  largest  capital  in  the  then 
known  world,  and  the  reference  to  its  early  abandon- 
ment would  then  have  convoyed  no  lesson — 
seeing  the  extent  of  the  city,  the  reader  realized 
that  it  was  only  a  short  setback  from  which  it  had 
suffered,  and  its  effects  had  long  since  ceased  to  be 
felt. 

Limits   af  its  information. — For   the  early   date 
of   the   Table   also   speaks    the    limited    geographi- 
cal   knowledge   displayed.     Sargon   of 

11.  Further  Agade   warred   both   on    the    E.    and 
Arguments     the  \V.  of  Babylonia,  but  he  seems  to 
for  Early        have  made  no  expeditions  to  the  X., 
Date  of          and    certainly    did    not    touch    either 
Table  Egypt    or     Ethiopia.     This    suggests 

not  only  that  the  information  available 
was  later  than  his  time,  but  also  that  it  was  obtained 
from  merchants,  travelers,  envoys  and  ambassadors. 
The  scantiness  of  the  information  about  the  Xorth 
of  Europe  and  Asia,  and  t  he  absence  of  any  reference 
to  the  Middle  or  UK;  Far  East,  imply  that  com- 
munications were  easiest  on  the  W.,  the  limit  of 
trade  in  that  direction  being  apparently  Spain.  If 
it  could  be  proved  that  the  Phoenicians  came  as 
far  westward  as  Britain  for  their  tin,  that  might 
fix  the  latest  date  of  the  compilation  of  the  Table, 
as  it  must  have  been  written  before  it  became 
known  tint  their  ships  went  so  far;  but  in  that 
case,  the  date  of  t  heir  earliest  journeys  thither  would 
need  to  be  fixed.  Noteworthy  is  the  absence  of 
any  reference  to  the  Iranians  (Aryan  Persians)  on 
the  10.  These,  however,  may  have;  boon  included 
with  the  Modes  (Madai),  or  one  of  the  unidentified 
names  of  the  descendants  of  Japhoth  in  Clou  10  2..'}. 
SooSiiK.M;  HAM;  JAI>HKTH,  and  the  other  special 
articles  in  this  Encyclopaedia;  also,  for  a  great 
mass  of  information  and  theories  by  many  scholars 
and  specialists,  Dillmann,  KiirzycfaNstes  cxeoef  inches 
Ifamlbiich  zum  AT,  "Die  Genesis,"  Leipzig,  18S2; 
\V.  Max  M  filler,  Asien  uiul  Euro  pa,  Leipzig,  1X93; 
and  F.  Hommel,  Grundriss  der  Geographie  utul 
Geschielite  (lex  alien  Orients,  Munich,  1904. 

T.    (!.     PlNTHKS 

TABLET,  tab'let:  A  rigid  flat  sheet,  (plate,  pad 
or  slab)  used  to  receive  writing.  Stone,  clay,  wood 
and  perhaps  bronze,  gold  and  lead  tablets,  at  least, 
are  mentioned  in  the  Bible.  In  the  Old  Eng.  sense 
of  "locket,"  the  word  is  incorrectly  used  in  AV  also 


of  what  RV  translates  as  ''armlets,"  m  "necklaces" 
(Ex  35  22;  Nu  31  50)  and  "perfume  boxes"  (Isa 
3  20). 

The  technical  Heb  word  for  tablet,  FH5  ,  lu"h, 
is  generally  tr(i  in  both  AV  and  RV  as  "table." 
This  is  used  for  stone,  wood  or  metal  plates  or  tab- 
lots  with  or  without  writing.  In  Isa  (30  X)  where 
RV  translates  "tablet,"  it  is  contrasted  with  the 
"roll"  and  probably  means  the  wood  or  waxed  tablet. 
In  Ilab  (2  2,  ARV  "tablet,"  AV  and  ERV  "table") 
it  perhaps  refers  to  a  metal  tablet  to  be  erected  on  a 
wall,  but  more  likely  it  refers  to  the  wooden  tablet. 
It  is  also  used  in  Prov  (3  3;  7  3,  ARV  "tablet," 
AVand  ERV  "table";  and  in  Jor  (17  1)  figuratively 
of  the  writing  upon  the  tablets  of  the  heart,  the  word 
being  rendered  in  LXX  by  the  same  word  (pldx)  used 
by  St.  Paul  (2  Cor  3  3',  "tables"  in  AV  and  RV) 
in  the  same  figure.  In  other  eases  (Ex  24  12,  etc) 
it  is  used  of  the  tablets  of  stone  containing  the 
Decalogue. 

The;  word  "P"1^ ,  (/illd.j/dn,  (Isa  8  1),  which  is 
tr'1  in  RV  "tablet"  and  in  AV  "roll,"  is  elsewhere 
(3  23)  tr'1  "mirror,"  and  is  thought  to  moan  a  blank 
polished  surface  for  writing,  particularly  because 
in  later  use  it  means  t  he  blank  margin  of  a  roll.  But 
see  ROLL. 

The  clay  tablet  is  referred  to  in  Ezk  (4  1,  EV 
"tile"),  and  its  use  there  for  a  map  of  the  city  has 
boon  strikingly  illustrated  in  modern  excavation  by 
a  tablet  map  discovered  at  Nippur  (Ililprecht,  Ex- 
plorations, T)1S).  Jeremiah  (32  14,  RV  "deeds," 
AV  "evidences")  may  also  refer  to  clay  tablets, 
but  not  surely,  since;  roll  deeds  wore  also  kept  in 
earthen  jars.  Job  (19  24)  is  thought  by  some  to 
refer  to  the  writing  on  leaden  tablets,  such  as  were 
in  very  common  use  in  antiquity  and  in  the  Middle 
Ages  for  the  writing  of  charms  and  osp.  curses, 
but  more  hold  that  inscriptions  filled  with  lead  are 
meant  hero.  The  plate  of  pure  gold  (Ex  28  30; 
Lev  8  9),  engraved  like  the  gravings  of  a  signet, 
which  was  on  Aaron's  miter,  may  also  be  properly 
described  as  a  tablet,  recalling  the  silver  treaty  be- 
tween the  Hit  tit  os  and  Egyptians  and  the  gold  plate 
on  which  Queen  Helena  of  Adiabene  (Yon/a?  37a ; 
.//  ir  Enc,  VI,  334)  had  engraved  a  passage  from  the 
Pont  (Nu  5  19-22).  Bronze  tablets  (5 Arcs,  deltas) 
are  several  times  referred  to  in  1  Mace  (8  22;  14 
1S.27.4S). 

"Daleth"  (daleth  or  delcth),  the  Sem  (Phoon) 
original  from  which  the  generic  (Ir  word  for  tablet 
(ileltos)  is  derived  (Clardthausen,  p.  124,  n.  1),  is 
perhaps  not  found  strictly  in  this  meaning  in  the 
( )T.  The  word  is  used,  however,  of  two  kinds  of 
written  documents  and  in  such  a  way  as  to  suggest 
that  one  is  the  original  of,  and  the  other  derived 
from,  the  "daloth"-tablot.  In  Dt  6  9  and  11  20 
it  is  enjoined  that  the  laws  of  Jeh  shall  be  written 
upon  the  gates  of  the  houses,  and  in  each  case  the 
"daloths"  or  doors  are  meant,  since  the  door-posts 
are  also  mentioned,  and  in  1  S  21  13,  where;  David 
"scrabbles,"  it  is  expressly  said  to  be  upon  the 
"doors"  ("daleths")  of  the  gate.  This  practice 
of  writing  upon  house  doors  and  city  gates  corre- 
sponds to  the  modern  posting  of  notices  on  church 
doors  and  scoring  of  tallies  on  a  door  by  the  rural 
innkeeper;  and  the  name  seems  to  have  passed  from 
this  great  door  tablet  to  the  portable  tablet.  On  the 
other  hand  Jeremiah  (36  23)  uses  "daleths"  (EV 
'"leaves")  for  the  columns  of  a  roll,  obviously  trans- 
ferring the  term  from  the  panel  form  of  the  folding 
tablets. 

IltfaKt'y,  pinakis,  or  irii>a.Kt.otoi>,  pinakidion,  is  found 
in  Ezk  9  2.11  in  the  version  of  Symmachus  in 
place  of  the  "writer's  inkhorn,"  and  pinakidion,  in 
Lk  1  03,  of  the  (wooden)  tablet  on  which  Zacharias 
wrote  the  name  of  John.  Puxion  is  used  several 


2901 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tablet 
Tabor,  Mount 


times  by  LXX  as  (he  tr  for  lu"h,  and  once  (Cant, 
6  14)  for  ivory  tablets.  *SV;»?.s  is  used  as  the  tr  of 
"daleth"  or  ln"h  2  or  3  t  in  LXX  and  still  oft  oner  in 
the  other  VSS.  The  commonest  (Ir  term  both  in 
the  NT  (2  Cor  3  3;  He  9  4)  and  in  the.  (ir  OT 
is  7rAd£,  pld.r,  oftenest  used  of  the  tables  of  stone. 
This,  like  pldlon,  which  is  also  used  for  lu'lh  in 
LXX,  is  not  recognized  in  the  modern  textbooks 
(Thompson,  Gardthauscn,  Birt). 

LlTKHATUHE. — GardthaUSCIl ,  Grii-rhixrlx-  P/l/ilCili/.,  Leip- 
zig. I  (1<)11),  123-32;  cf  pp.  24-15.  Sec  also  literature, 
under  WHITINC;. 

E.  C.  RICHARDSON 

TABOR,  ta'ber,  ta'bor  On2n  ,  tabhtlr;  B,  0axx«»i, 
Thnchclu'id,  A,  0a(3up,  Tlidbdr):  One  of  the  towns 
in  the  territory  of  Zebulun,  given  to  the  Alerarite 
Levites  (1  Ch'  6  77).  The  ,  list  in  Josh  21  24  f 
contains  no  name  like  this.  There  is  no  indication 
of  its  position.  Some  have  thought  that  it  ni;iy 
correspond  to  Daborath  in  the  territory  of  Issachar 
(ver  2S),  now  represented  by  Dcbiiriyck  on  the 
weslern  slope  of  Alt.  Tabor;  others  that  it  may  be 
the  mountain  itself;  and  yet  others  that  it  may  be  a 
city  on  the  mountain,  which  probably  was  occupied 
from  very  early  times.  There  is  a  Tabor  mentioned 
as  on  the  border  of  Issachar  (Josh  19  22);  but  that 
is  almost  certainly  the  mountain.  It  lias  been 
suggested  that  Tabor  in  1  Ch  6  17  may  be  a  con- 
tract ion  of  Chisloth-tabor  (Josh  19  12),  the  modern 
/A'.sa/,  3  miles  \V.  of  the  mountain.  No  certainty 
impossible.  W.  EWING 

TABOR,  MOUNT  (linn ,  mbhor.  -HUP  nn , 

Jitrr  tdbhor;  opos  0a(3o>p,  dros  Tluibor,  TO  'Irafivpiov, 
to  Itnbi'trinn) '.  This  mountain  seems  to  be  named  as 
on  the  border  of  Issachar  (Josh  19  22).  It  is 
possibly  identical  with  the  mountain  to  which 
Zebulun  and  Issachar  were  to  call  the  peoples  (Dt 
33  19).  Standing  on  the  boundary  between  the 
tribes,  they  would  claim  equal  rights  in  the  sanctuary 
on  the  fop.  The  passage  seems  to  indicate  that  it 
was  a  place  of  pilgrimage.  The  worshippers,  bring- 
ing with  them  the  "abundance  of  the  sea"  and  the 
"treasures  of  the  sand,"  would  be  a  source  of 
profit  to  the  local  authorities.  The  mountain 
can  bo  no  other  than  Jvbcl  ct-Tur,  an  isolated  and 
shapely  height,  rising  at  the  northeast  corner  of  the 
Plain  of  Esdraelon,  about  5  miles  W.  of  Nazareth. 
The  mountain  has  retained  its  sacred  character, 
and  is  si  ill  a  place  of  pilgrimage,  only  the  rites  being 
cliiinged.  The  present  writer  has  mingled  with 
great  interest  among  the  crowds  that  assemble 
there  from  all  parts  at  the  Feast  of  the  Trans- 
figuration. 

It  was  on  the  summit  and  slopes  of  this  mountain 
that  Deborah  and  Barak  gathered  their  forces;  and 
heace  they  swept  down  to  battle  with  Sisera  in 
the  groat  plain  (Jgs  4  ti.12.14').  Here  probably 
the  brothers  of  Gideon  were  murdered  by  Zoba 
and  Zalnmnna  (8  IS).  Moore  ("Jgs,"  /("<",  ;i,l 
loo.)  thinks  the  scene  of  the  slaughter  must  have 
been  much  farther  S.  lie  does  not  see  what  the 
brothers  of  Gideon  wore  doing  so  far  N.  of  their 
home  in  Abie/or.  Then;  is,  however,  no  reason 
for  placing  Ophruh  so  far  to  the  S.  as  he  does;  and 
in  any  case  the  men  were  probably  captured  and 
taken  to  Tabor  as  prisoners.  Jos  (Ant,  VII,  ii,  3) 
says  it  was  in  one  of  Solomon's  administrative  dis- 
tricts (cf  1  K  4  17).  Such  a  prominent  and  com- 
manding position  must  always  have  invited  forti- 
fication. In  the  lime  of  Antiochus  the  Groat,  21S 
BC,  we  find  a  fortress  hero,  which  that  king  took 
by  stratagem,  Atabyrion  by  name  (Polyb.  v.  70,  C>). 
It  was  recovered  by  the  Jews,  and  was  field  by  them 
under  Jannaous,  105-70  BC  (Ant,  XIII,  xv,  4). 
The  place  fell  to  the  Romans  at  the  conquest  under 
Pompey ;  and  not  far  from  the  mountain  Alexander, 


son  of  Aristobulus  II,  suffered  defeat  at  the  hands  of 
Gabinius,  proconsul  of  Syria,  53  BC  (Ant,  XIV, 
iv,  3;  BJ ,  I,  viii,  7).  Jos,  who  commanded  in 
Galileo  at  the  outbreak  of  the  Jewish  war,  recog- 
nized the  importance  of  the  position,  and  built  a 
wall  round  the  summit.  After  the  disaster  to 
Jewish  arms  at  Jotapata,  where  Jos  himself  was 
taken  prisoner,  many  fugitives  took  refuge  here. 
Placidus  the  Rom  general  did  not  attempt  an 
assault  upon  the  fortress.  Its  defenders  were  by  a 
feint  drawn  into  the  plain,  where  they  wore  defeated, 
and  the  city  surrendered. 

A  tradition  which  can  be  traced  to  the  -1th  cent.  AD 
places  the  scene  of  the  Transfiguration  on  this  mountain. 
Allusion  has  been  made  above  to  the  sacred  character 
of  the  place.  To  this,  and  to  1  he  striking  appearance  of 
the  mountain,  the  rise  of  tin •  tradition  may  have  been  due. 
Passing  centuries  have  seen  a  succession  of  churches 
and  monasteries  erected  on  the  mountain.  The  scene  of 
the  Transfiguration  was  laid  at  the  southeastern  end  of 
the  summit,  and  here  a  church  was  built,  probably  by 
Tancred.  Hard  by  was  also  shown  the  place  Where 
Melchizedek  mot,  Abraham  returning  from  the  pursuit 
of  Chedorlaomer.  The  mountain  shared  to  the  full 
the  vicissitudes  of  the  country's  stormy  history.  lull  K! 
AD  the  Arabs  from  Damascus  plundered  the  monasteries 
and  murdered  the  monks.  An  unsuccessful  attack  was 
made  by  Saladin  in  1  1X3.  but  4  years  later,  after  the  rout 
of  the  Crusaders  at  Hattin,  he  devastated  the  place. 
Twenty-five  years  after  that  it  was  fortified  by  el-Melek 
el-'Adel,  brother  of  Saladin.  and  the  Crusaders  failed  in 
an  attempt  to  take  it  in  1217.  In  121S,  however,  the 
.Saracens  threw  down  the  defences.  Sultan  Bibars  in 
1263  ordered  the  destruction  of  the  Church  of  the  Trans- 
figuration, and  for  a  time  the  mountain  was  deserted. 
The  Feast  of  the,  Transfiguration,  however,  continued 
to  be  celebrated  by  the  monks  from  Xa/areth.  During 
the  last  quarter  of  the  HHhoont.  much  building  was  done 
by  the  Lat  and  (ir  churches,  who  have  now  largo  and 
substantial  monasteries  and  churches.  They  have  also 
excavated  the  ruins  of  many  of  the  old  ecclesiastical 
buildings.  The  remains  now  to  be  seen  present  feat  tires 
of  every  period,  from  Jewish  times  to  our  own. 

Alt.  Tabor  rises  to  a  height  of  1,843  ft.  above  the 
sea,  and  forms  the  most  striking  feature  of  the 
landscape.  Seen  from  the  S.  it  presents  the  shape 
of  a  hemisphere;  from  the  W.  that  of  a  sugar  loaf. 
Its  rounded  top  and  steep  side's  are  covered  with 
thick  brushwood.  It  is  about  half  a  century 
since  the  oak  forest  disappeared;  but  solitary 


Alt.  Tabor. 

survivors  here  and  there  show  what  the  trees  must 
have  boon.  A  low  neck  connects  the  mountain 
with  the  uplands  to  the  N.  It  is  cut  off  from 
Jchel  I'.d-Dithij  on  the  S.  by  a  fertile  vale,  which 
breaks  down  into  Wudy  el-Birch,  and  thence  to  the 
Jordan.  A  /igzag  path  on  the  N.\V.  leads  to  the 
top,  whence  most  interesting  and  comprehensive 
views  are  obtained.  Southward,  over  Little  ller- 
nion,  with  Endor  and  Nain  on  its  side,  and  Shunem 
at  its  western  base,  we  catch  a  glimpse  of  Alt. 
Gilboa.  A\Vay  across  the  plain  the  eye  runs  along 
the  hills  on  the  northern  boundary  of  Samaria, 
past  Taanach  and  Alegiddo  to  Carmel  by  the  sea, 


Tabor,  Oak  of 
Take 


TIIIO  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2902 


and  the  o;ik  forest  that  runs  northward  from  the 
gorge  of  the  Kishon.  A  little  to  the  N.  of  W., 
5  miles  of  broken  upland,  we  can  see.  the  higher 
houses  of  Nazareth  gleaming  white  in  the  sun. 
Eastward  lies  the  hollow  of  the  Jordan,  and  beyond 
it  the  wall  of  C.ilead  and  the  steep  cliffs  E.  of  the 
Sea  of  Galilee,  broken  by  glens  and  watercourses, 
.and  esp.  by  the  great  chasm  of  the  Y<ir»nlk.  The 
mountains  of  Zebulun  and  Naphtali  seem  to  cul- 
minate in  the.  shining  mass  of  (ireat  Ilermon,  rising 
far  in  the  northern  sky.  Standing  here  one  realizes 
how  aptly  the  two  mountains  may  be  associated  in 
t  he  Psalmist  's  t  hought  ,  alt  hough  I  lermon  be  might  y 
and  Tabor  humble  (Ps  89  12).  Tabor  is  referred 
to  by  Jeremiah  (46  IS),  and  Hosea  alludes  to 
some  ensnaring  worship  practised  on  the  mountain 
(6  1). 

The  present  writer  spent  some  weeks  on  Ml. 
Tabor,  and  as  the  result  of  careful  observation  and 
consideration  concluded  that  the  scene  of  the  Trans- 
figuration cannot  be  laid  here.  The  place  woidd 
appear  to  have  been  occupied  at  that  time;  and  the 
remoteness  and  quiet  which  Jesus  evidently  sought 
could  hardly  have  been  found  here.  See^TnAXs- 
FIGURATION,  MOUNT  OF.  W.  E\V1N<; 


TABOR,  OAK    (AV  PLAIN)    OF 

clou  Idlilidr;  TJ  5pvs  Qap<ip,  l/r  <lni*  Thabdr):  A 
place  mentioned  only  in  Samuel's  directions  to  Saul 
after  his  anointing  (1  S  10  3).  It  lay  between  the 
city  where  the  two  met  and  (iibeah  whither  Saul 
was  returning.  Ewald  and  Thenius  thought  it 
might  be  identical  with  the  palm  tree  of  Deborah, 
but  there  is  nothing  to  support  this  conjecture. 
Others  have  thought  we  might  read  "oak  of  Deb- 
orah," as  signifying  the  place  where  Rachel's,  nurse 
was  buried  (.(Jen  35  S).  The  truth  is  that  nothing 
whatever  is  now  known  of  the  site. 

W.    EWING 

TABRET,  tab  'ret,  TIMBREL,  tim'brel.  See 
Mrsir,  III,  3,  (1). 

TABRIMMON,  tab-rim'on,  tab'ri-mon  (ITE"1.^?  , 
tabhrimmon,  "Rimmon  is  good";  H,  To^pc^d, 
Taherenta,  A,  Tapevpcnuid,  T  dbenraemd)  '.  The  son 
of  Hezion  and  father  of  MKN-HADAD  (q.v.)  (1  K  15 
IS,  AV  "Tabrimon"). 

TACHES,  tach'iz.     See  CLASPS. 

TACHMONITE,  tak'mo-mt.  See  TAUCIIKMO- 
NITE. 

TACKLING,  tak'ling.  See  SHIPS  AND  BOATS, 
II,  2,  (2). 

TADMOR,  tad'mor,  tad'mor  ("I'C'P  ,  tadhmdr): 
A  city  built  by  Solomon  in  the  wilderness  (2  Ch  8 
4),  the  Rom  Palmyra.  Tadmor  is  the  native  name 
and  is  found  on  inscriptions.  It  occurs  also  in  the 
Kere  of  1  K  9  18,  where  the  Kethibh  or  conso- 
nants read  "Tamar"  (cf  Ezk  47  19;  48  28).  It  is 
famous  in  Arabian  as  well  as  in  Ileb  lit.,  and  enters 
Rom  history  in  connection  with  Zenobia  and 
Longinus.  The  inscriptions,  which  belong  for  the 
most  part  to  the  latter  period  (260-73  AD),  have 
been  published  by  Dawkins  and  Wood  and  also  by 
M.  Waddington  and  the  Due  de  Luynes.  Popular 
works  on  the  subject  are  An  Account  of  Pnlmyra 
and  Zcnolna  by  W.  Wright,  and  The.  Last  Days  and 
Fall  of  Palmyra  by  W.  Ware.  See  TAMAH. 

THOMAS  HU.VTKK  WEIR 

TAHAN,  ta'han,  TAHANITES,  tfi'han-its  (inn, 
tahan,  "'IjnP  ,  tahani)  :  The  name  of  two  Ephraim- 
ites  who  lived  toward  the  end  of  the  exodus  of  the 
Israelites  (c  1415  BC). 


(1)  The  head  of  one  of  the  families  of  the  tribe  of 
Ephraim  (Nn  26  3f>). 

(2)  The  son  of  Telah  and  father  of  Ladan,  also 
of  the  tribe  of  Ephraim  (1  Ch  7  25  f). 

TAHAPANES,  ta-hap'a-nez  (Cn;£nP  ,  tnhpan- 
/ic.s-).  See  TAHI-ANHKS. 

TAHASH,  ta'hash  (TTnn  ,  tnhmli;  T6Xos,  Tw-hos; 
AV  Thahash):  A  son  of  Nahor  by  his  concubine 
Reumah  (den  22  24).  The  word  TLTIP  means  a 
kind  of  leather  or  skin,  and  ])erha]>s  the  animal 
yielding  it,  probably  the  "dugong"'  (cf  Brown, 
Briggs,  and  Driver),  Tahnsft  has  been  identified 
by  Winckler  with  Tihis  (Egypt),  located  on  the 
OronteSj  N.  of  Kadesh. 

TAHATH,  ta'hath  (PHP, ,  tahath,  "below"):  A 
wilderness  station  of  the  Israelites  (Nu  33  20.27), 
between  Makheloth  and  Terah.  See  WANDKKIN<;S 

OF    ISKAKL. 

TAHATH: 

(1)  A  Kohathite  Levitc  (1  Ch  6  21). 

(2)  The  name  is  mentioned  twice  among  the  sons 
of    Ephraim    (1   Ch.  7  20);     two    families    may    be 
meant,  or  perhaps  the  name  has  been  accidentally 
repeated. 

TAHCHEMONITE,  ta-ke'mo-nit,  ta'k?-mon-It 
pl'CinP  ,  tnhk'  indn 7) :  Name  of  a  family  to  which 
Jashobeam,  the  chief  captain  in  David's  army, 
belonged  (2  S  23  S;  1  Ch  11  11).  In  1  Ch  it  is 
"Hachmonite." 

TAHPANHES,  ta'pan-hez,  ta-pan'hez  (usually 
in  the  OT  CnZCnP  ,  tahi>anhe>$;  LXX  Ta4>vds, 
Tai>hn(ix;  Coptic,  Taphnc-x):  The  various  spellings 
of  the  Ileb  text  are  fairly  well  indicated  in  AV  by 
Tahapanes  (Jer  2  10);  ~Tahpanhes  (Jer  43  7-9; 
44  1;  46  14);  Tehaphnehes  (Ezk  30  IS),  while 
an  Egyp  queen  (XXIst  Dynasty)  is  named  Tah- 
penes(l  K  11  19.20).  T.  was  a  city  on  the  eastern 
frontier  of  Lower  Egypt,  represented  today  by 
Till  I)<  fcniith,  a  desert  mound  lying  some  20  miles 
S.W.  from  Pelusium  (Bib.  "Sin")  and  a  little  N.  of 
the  modern  Al-Kantarah  ("the  bridge"),  marking 
the  old  caravan  route  from  Egypt  to  Pal,  Mesopo- 
tamia and  Assyria.  Its  Egyp  name  is  unknown, 
but  it  was  called  Aa0faJ,  Daphnal,  by  the  Creeks, 
and  by  the  modern  Arabs  Dcf'nch.  The  site  is 
now  desolate,  but  it  was  a  fertile  district  when 
watered  by  the  Pelusiac  branch  of  the  Nile  (cf  Isa 
19  (5.7).  T.  was  so  powerful  that  Jeremiah  can 
say  that  it,  with  Memphis,  has  "broken  the  crown" 
of  Israel's  head  (2  10),  and  Ezckiel  can  speak  of  its 
"daughters"  (colonies  or  suburban  towns),  and 
names  it  with  Heliopolis  and  Bubastis  when  the 
"yokes  [LXX  "sceptres"]  of  Egypt"  shall  be 
broken  by  Jeh  (30  IS).  In  a  later  passage  Jere- 
miah describes  the  flight  of  the  Jews  from  their 
ruined  capital  to  T.  after  the  death  of  Gedaliah 
(43  1-7)  and  prophesies  that  Nebuchadnezzar 
shall  invade  Egypt  and  punish  it,  establishing  his 
throne  upon  the  brick  pavement  (AV  "kiln") 
which  is  at  the  entry  of  Pharaoh's  royal  palace  at 
T.  (43  8-11).  He  calls  T.  as  a  witness  to  the  desola- 
tion of  the  cities  of  Judah  (44  1),  but  prophesies 
an  equal  destruction  of  T.  and  other  Egyp  cities 
(probably  occupied  by  fugitive  Jews)  when  Nebu- 
chadnezzar shall  smite  them  (46  14). 

This  invasion  of  Egypt  by  Nebuchadnezzar  was  for  a 
IOIIK  time  strenuously  denied  (e.g.  as  late  as  1889  by 
Kuencn,  Historisch-critisch  Onderzock,  205— 318);  but 
since  the  discovery  and  publication  (1878)  of  fragments  of 
Nebuchadnezzar's  annals  in  which  he  affirms  his  invasion 


2903 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  EXCYCLOPAEDI A 


Tabor,  Oak  of 
Take 


of  Kgypt  in  his  :{7th  year  (r><;S-5<>7  BT),  most  scholars 
have  agreed  tliat  the  predict  ions  of  Jeremiah  (43  !)-i:J; 
44  :W)  uttered  shortly  after  5S(i  Br  and  of  Kzekiel 
(29  Ml)  uttered  in  570  11C!  were  fulfilled,  "  at  least  in 
tlieir  general  sense"  (Driver,  .1  nthoritu  and  ArchucolufHl, 
llfi).  Three  cuneiform  inscriptions  of  Nebuchadnezzar 
were  found  by  Arabs  probably  on  or  near  this  site. 
The  excavation  of  T.  in  ls,S(>  by  W.  M.  Flinders  I'etrie 
made  it  "highly  probable  that  the  large  oblong  platform 
of  brickwork  close  to  the  palace  fort  built  at  this  spot  by 
Psarnmetichus  I,  c  <i(>4  B(\  and  now  called  Knur  Hint  cl- 
Yi-hitili,  'the  castle  of  the  Jew's  daughter,'  is  identical 
with  the  quadrangle  'which  is  at  the  entry  of  Pharaoh's 
house  in  T.'  in  which  Jeremiah  was  commanded  to  bury 
the  stones  as  a  token  that  Nebuchadnezzar  would  spread 
his  pavilion  over  them  when  lie  led  his  army  into  lOgypt" 
(ib,  117).  Jos  explicitly  mentions  that  Nebuchadnezzar, 
when  he  captured  T.,  carried  off  a. Jewish  contingent  from 
that  city  (Ant,  IX,  vii).  Dr.  Petrie  found  that  while 
a  small  fort,  had  existed  here  since  the  Kameside  era  (cf 
Herod,  ii.17),  yet  the  town  was  practically  founded  by 
Psammctichus  I,  continued  prosperous  for  a  century  or 
more,  but  dwindled  to  a  small  village  in  Ptolemaic  times. 
Many  sealing*  of  wine  jars  stumped  with  the  cartouches 
of  Psammeticlms  1  and  Aniosis  wen?  found  in  situ.  T. 
being  the  nearest  Kgyp  town  to  Pal,  Jeremiah  and  the 
other  Jewish  refugees  would  naturally  flee  there  (43  ")• 
It  is  not  at  all  unlikely  that  Nebuchadnezzar's  invasion 
of  Kgypt  was  partly  due  to  Egypt's  favorable  reception 
of  these  refugees. 

The  pottery  found  at  T.  "shows  on  the  whole 
more  evidence  of  Greeks  than  Egyptians  in  the 

place Esp.  between  607-587  BC  a  constant 

intercourse  with  (he  Gr  settlers  must  have  been 
going  on  and  a  wider  intercourse  than  even  a  Gr 

colony  in  Pal  would  have  produced The  whole 

circumstances  were  such  as  to  give  the  best  possible 
opportunity  for  (he  permeation  of  Gr  words  and  Gr 
ideas  among  the  upper  classes  of  the  Jewish  exiles" 
(Petrie,  Xtlx^luli  ami  I),-fc./ntcfi,  1SSS,  50).  This 
was,  however,  only  one  of  many  places  where  the 
Greeks  and  Hebrews  met  freely  in  this  century 
(see  e.g.  Duruv,  Hist  of  (Ircccc,  II,  12(5-80;  Cobern, 
Diuu'cl,  301-7).  A  large  foreign  traffic  is  shown  at 
T.  in  which  no  doubt  the  Jews  took  part.  Dis- 
coveries from  the  15 th  cent.  BC  included  some  very 
finely  painted  pottery,  "full  of  archaic  spirit  and 
beauty,"  many  amulets  and  much  rich  jewelry  and 
bron/c  and  iron  weapons,  a  piece  of  scale  armor, 
thousands  of  arrow  heads,  and  three  seals  of  a  Syrian 
type.  One  of  (he  few  inscriptions  prays  the  blessing 
of  Neit  upon  "all  beautiful  souls."  There  was  also 
dug  up  a  vast  number  of  minute  weights  evidently 
used  for  weighing  precious  metals,  showing  that  the 
manufacture  of  jewelry  was  carried  on  here  on  a 
large  scale.  One  of  the  most  pathetic  and  sugges- 
tive "finds"  from  this  century,  which  witnessed  the 
Bab  captivity,  consisted  of  certain  curious  figures 
of  captives,  carved  in  limestone,  with  their  legs  bent 
backward  from  their  knees  and  their  ankles  and 
elbows  bound  together  (Petrie,  op.  cit.,  chs  ix-xii). 
CAMDKNT  M.  COBERN 

TAHPENES,  tii'pe-nez,  ta-pe'nez  (D^EHH  , 
tahi>''ni'x;  LXX  0eK6|A[e|iva,  Thekem[e]lna) :  Queen 
of  Egypt,  the  sister  of  Hadad's  wife  and  the  foster- 
mother  of  his  sou  Genubath  (1  K  11  19  f).  See 
PHARAOH. 

TAHREA,  tii'rfi-a,  ta-re'a  (?nnr\ ,  lahre^) :  Son 
of  Micah,  a  descendant  of  Gibeon  (1  Ch  9  41; 

in  8  35  "Tarca"). 

TAHTIM-HODSHI,  ta-tim-hod'shl.  See  KA- 
DESH  ON  ORONTES. 

TAIL,  tal  (mbS,  'alyah;  3:T ,  zanabh;  oipd, 
ourn}:  The  broad  tail  of  the  Syrian  sheep,  wrongly 
rendered  "rum])"  (q.v.)  in  AV,  is  mentioned  as  one 
of  the  portions  of  sacrifice  which  was  burned  on 
the  altar  as  a  sweet  savor  to  God  (Ex  29  22).  The 
2d  Heb  word  is  tised  of  the  tails  of  serpents  (Ex  4  4), 
of  foxes,  which  Samson  tied  together  in  his  cruel 
sport,  in  order  to  destroy  the  cornfields  of  the 
Philis  by  means  of  attached  firebrands  (Jgs  15  4, 


etc).  The  following  seems  to  be  an  allusion  to  this 
incident:  "Fear  not,  neither  let  thy  heart  be  faint, 
because  of  these  two  tails  of  smoking  firebrands,  for 
the  fierce  anger  of  Re/in  and  Syria,  and  of  the  son  of 
Remaliah"  (Isa  7  4). 

Figurative:  "Tail"  =  inferiority,  as  opposed  to 
"head"  =  superiority,  leadership.  "Jeh  will  make 
thee  (he  head,  and  not  the  tail;  and  thou  shall 
be  above  only,  and  thou  shall,  not  be  beneath;  if 
thou  shalt  hearken  unto  the  commandments  of 
Jeh"  (Dt  28  13;  cf  also  ver  44). 

In  the  XT  we  find  onrn  used  of  the  apocalyptic 
animals,  scorpions,  horses,  and  the  dragon  ( Rev 
9  10.19;  12  4j.  H.  L.  I-:.  LUERING 

TAKE,  tak:  Most  of  the  very  numerous  examples 
of  this  word  are  still  in  good  use  and  only  a  few 
call  for  special  attention.  "To  take"  in  the  sense 
of  "capture"  is  still  common,  but  when  a  person  or 
living  animal  is  in  point,  modern  Eng.  usually 
adds  '"prisoner"  or  "captive."  KV  not  infre- 
quently has  t  his  addition  (Gen  14  14,  etc),  but  more 
commonly  "take"  is  used  without  it  (Josh  10  39; 
Job  5  13;  Sir  23  21;  Jn  7  30,  etc).  An  occa- 
sional obscurity  is  thus  caused,  as  in  Gen  27  3, 
"take  me  venison"  for  "hunt  venison  for  me." 
"To  take  advice"  (2  Ch  25  17;  AV  Jgs  19  30, 
RV  "counsel")  is  "to  reflect,"  not  "to  consult 
others"  (cf  1  K  12  2H;  but  contrast  2  K  6  S, 
etc).  "To  take  knowledge  of"  is  "to  learn  thor- 
oughly," "investigate"  (1  S  23  23,  etc),  as  is  "to 
take  notice  of"  (2  S  3  3(5).  "To  take  an  oath  of" 
(Gen  50  25,  etc)  is  "to  exact  an  oath  of."  "To 
be  taken  with  a  disease"  in  AV  Mt  4  24;  Lk  4  38 
is  "to  suffer  with"  (RV  "be  holden  with"),  but  in 

1  Mace  9  55;  2  Mace  9  21  (AV  and  RV),  the  con- 
text gives  the  force  "be  attacked  by,"  as  in  modern 
Eng.     Cf  AV  Lk  8  37  (RV  "holden") ;  Mic  4  9  (RV 
"take  hold  of").     "Take"  occurs  in  the  sense  "over- 
take" in  AV  Gen  19  19  (RV  "overtake");  Sir  36  2(5. 
"Take  away"  has  sometimes  a  more  forcible  sig- 
nificance than  in  modern  Eng.,  as  in  AV  Lev  6  2, 
"a  thing  taken  away  by  violence"  (RV  "robbery"); 
Dnl  11  12,  AV"  He  hath  taken  away  the  mult  it  tide," 
where  the  meaning  is  "swept  away"  (cf  RVrn  "car- 
ried away";    RV  "shall  be  lifted  up"  is  inappropri- 
ate here).     So  in  "lest  he  take  thee  away  with  his 
stroke"     (AV    Job  36  18),     "take    away"     means 
simply  "slay."     (The  text  here  is  intensely  obscure, 
and  RV  has  followed  a  different  interpretation.) 
So  "to  be  taken  away"  may  mean  simply  "to  die," 
as    in    Ezk  33  (1;     Wisd  14  15;     Sir  16  9;     19  3; 
Mk  2  20,  although  in  1  Cor  5  2  it  means  "to  be 
expelled."     "To  take  away  judgment"  or  "right" 
(Job  27  2;   34  5;   Acts  8  33)  is  "to  refuse  it,"  but 
in  Zeph  3  15  EV  means  "the  sentence  against  thee 
is  canceled"  (Heb  text  dubious).     Neh  5  2  AV  has 
"take  up"  for  "get"  (so  RV),  perhaps  with  the  con- 
notation "on  credit."     "Take  up"  is  also  used  fre- 
quently for  "utter  solemnly"  (Nil  23  7;    Isa  14  4, 
etc),  a  use  due  to  the  Heb  "lift  up,"  "exalt"  (STC:  , 
ndsd').     For    "take    up"    in    the    sense    of    "lift" 
(physically),  cf  Isa  40  15;    Acts  7  43;    AV  21  15. 
"Take  care"   in   Tob  5  20;     1   Cor  9  9  AV    (RV 
"to  care")   means   "be  anxious  about,"   "have  in 
mind."     And    the  very  obscure  "scurrility  in   the 
matter  of   giving   and   taking"    (Sir  41   19)   is   ex- 
plained by  the  Heb  to  mean  "refusing  the  gift  for 
which  thou  art  besought."     The  following  phrases 
are  archaic,  but  hardly  need  explanation:    "Take 
indignation"   (Xeh  41);    "take  wrong"    (1   Cor  6 
7);    "take  up  in  the  lips"   (Ezk  36  3;    AV  Ps  16 
4,     "take  ....  into   my   lips,"   RV   "take  .... 
upon  my  lips");   and  in  AV  "take  to  record"  (Acts 
20  2(5,    RV    "testify    unto");    "take   shame"    (Mic 

2  6  AV).  BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 


Tale 
Talmud 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2904 


TALE,  tfd  (~2T\.  tukhen,  n:2ITa  ,  mithkoneth, 
"ISy1?  ,  mis  par;  X^pos,  IProx):  In  AV  of  the  OT 
(with  one  exception,  Ps  90  0)  "tale"  (in  the  sing.) 
means  number.  "Tell''  often  has  the  same  mean- 
ing, e.g.  "I  may  tell  [i.e.  reckon]  all  my  bones" 
(Ps  22  17).  When  Moses  requested  permission 
to  go  three  days'  journey  into  the  wilderness  to 
sacrifice  to  Jeli,  Pharaoh  replied  by  demanding 
the  full  "tale"  of  bricks  from  the  Israelites  although 
they  were  compelled  to  provide  themselves  with 
straw  (Ex  5  S.lS;  sec  also  1  S  18  27;  1  Ch  9  2S). 
In  Ps  90  0,  "as  a  tale  that  is  told"  is  a  doubtful 
rendering  (see  GAMKS).  The  LXX  and  Vulg  render 
"as  a  spider's  web."  The  literal  and  perhaps 
accurate'  1r  is  "as  a  sigh"  (Driver,  in  the  Parallel 
Psalter,  gives  "as  a  murmur").  The  word  used 
in  this  ps  means  "to  whisper,"  or  "speak  xotto  rocc," 
as  a  devout  believer  repeats  to  himself  the  words  of 
a  favorite  hymn  or  passage  (Ps  1  2). 

The  disciples  considered  the  account  given  by 
the  women  ii  regard  to  the  resurrection  as  "idle 
tales"  (AV,  RV  "idle  talk"),  lit.  "nonsensical  talk" 
(Lk  24  11). 

In  talebearer  the  word  has  another  meaning,  viz. 
"slanderous  talk  or  gossip.1'  The  word  occurs  5  t  in 
Prov  (11  13;  18  S  AV;  20  11);  26  20.22  AV)  and 
once  in  Lev  (19  l(>i.  The  word  used  in  Lev  and 
also  in  Prov  20  19  means  a  person  who  gads  about 
from  house  to  house;  hawking  malicious  gossip  (cf 
1  Tim  5  13).  From  the  same  root  comes  the  Heb 
word  for  "merchant."  In  E/-k  22  9  for  AV  "men 
that,  carry  tales"  RV  itives  "slanderous  men,"  as 
Doeg  (1  S  22  9.22);  Ziba  (.2  S  16  3;  19  27);  and 
a  certain  maid-servant  (2  S  17  17).  See  SI,AN*DKU. 

T.   LKWIS 

TALENT,  tal'ent  (122  ,  kikkar;  rdXavTov, 
tdlantiiu^:  A  weight  composed  of  (>0  manehs  (EV 
"pounds")  equal  to  about  120  pounds  troy  and  96 
pounds  avoirdupois,  or  t>72.500  grains,  of  the 
Phoen  standard.  See  WKKMITS  A\I>  MKASTKKS. 
When  used  in  the  monetary  sense  the  talent  might 
be  either  of  silver  or  gold,  and  the  value  varied  ac- 
cording to  the  standard,  but  is  probably  to  In- 
taken  on  the  Phoen,  which  would  give  about 
£410,  or  $2,050,  for  the  silver  talent  and  £0,150,  or 
$30,750,  for  the  gold.  See  MOXKY. 

Figurative:  "Talent,"  like  "pound,"  is  used 
metaphorically  in  the  XT'  for  mental  and  spiritual 
attainments  or  gifts  (Ml  25  15-2S). 

II.  POUTKH 

TALITHA  CUMI,  ta-le'tha  koTi'me  (To.Xi.ed  KOVUI, 
tnlilhd  kouiHi):  Derived  from  the  Aram.  (XrP'w 
"^P ,  hi! /ft  ha'  kilnn,  "da.msel,  arise"),  which  in 
the  NT  MSS  is  transliterated  variously  (WH,  TaXetfli 
KOV/JL.  Tfilcithti  koiun,  otherwise  Ta\i#a  KOV/J.I,  Tulithi'i 
kouini).  We  have  no  data  for  determining  how  far 
Jesus  employed  the  Aram,  language,  but  Mark  (5 
41)  notes  its  use  in  this  tender  incident,  and  there  is 
strong  probability  thai  Aram,  was  used  normally,  if 
not.  exclusively,  by  Christ.  There  is,  however,  no 
ground  for  attributing  any  magical  significance  to 
the  use  of  the  Aram,  words  in  connection  with  this 
miracle. 

TALMAI,  tal'ml,  tul'mii-I  H?'*P  ,  taltnay): 

(1)  A  clan,  possibly  of  Aramaean  origin,    gener- 
ally reputed   to  be   of   gigantic   height;    resident   in 
Hebron  at  the  time  of  the  Heb  conquest  and  driven 
thence  by  Caleb  (Xu  13  22;  Josh  15  14;  Jgs  1  10). 

(2)  A  son  of  Ammihur   (or  Ammihud),   king  of 
Geshur,  a  small  Aramaean  kingdom,  and  a  contem- 
porary of  David,   to  whom  he  gave  his  daughter 
Maacah    in    marriage.      When   Absalom   fled    from 
David  after  Hie  assassination   of  Amnon   he  took 
refuge  with   Talmai   at   Geshur    (2  S  3  3;  13  37; 
1  Ch  3  2). 


II. 
III. 


IV. 


V 

VI 

VII 


TALMON,  tal'mon  ("fvcfcv ,  talmon):  One  of 
the  porters  in  connection  with  the  temple-service 
(1  Ch  9  17;  Ezr  2  42;  Neh  7  45;  11  19;  12  25). 

TALMUD,  tal'rnud  (TVabn,  talmudh): 

I.     PRELIMINARY    KEMARKS    AND   VERBAL    EXPLANA- 
TIONS 

IMPORTANCE   or   THE  TALMUD 
THE   TRADITIONAL  LAW    UNTIL  THE  COMPOSITION 

OF    THE    MlSHNA 

DIVISION    AND    CONTENTS    OF   THE   MISHNA    (AND 
THE  TALMUD) 

1.  X''r<l'\m,  "Seeds" 

2.  Mfifdli,  "Feasts" 
.'i.   \<i.ihli».  "Women" 

4.  \'; i kin,  "Damages" 

5.  Ko<l/i<~ixhi m.  "Sacred  Things" 
(i.    T'hfiroth,  "(Mean  Things" 
THE   PALESTINIAN  TALMUD 
THE    BAHYLONIAN  TALMUD 

THE  XON-CANONICAL  LITTLE  TREATISES  AND  THE 

ToSF.J'IITA' 

1.  Treatises  after  the  4th  n,~,llier 

2.  Seven  Littler  Treatises  ' 
LITERATURE 

The  present  writer  is,  for  brevity's  sake,  under  neces- 
sity to  refer  to  his  Ei/ihitunu  in  <l<-n  Talmud,  4th  ed, 
Leipzig,  1'JOS.  It  is  <iuottd  lien;  as  I, an,. 

There  are  very  few  books  which  are  mentioned 
so  often  and  yet  are  so  little  known  as  the-  Talmud. 
It  is  perhaps  true  thai  nobody  can  now  be  found, 
who,  as  did  the  Capuchin  monk  Henricus  Seynen- 
sis,  thinks  that  "Talmud"  is  the  name  of  a  rabbi. 
Yet  a  great  deal  of  ignorance  on  this  subject  still 
prevails  in  many  circles.  Many  are  afraid  to  inform 
themselves,  as  this  may  be  too  difficult  or  too 
tedious;  others  (the  anti-Semites)  do  not  want 
correct  information  to  be  spread  on  this  subject, 
because  this  would  interfere  seriously  with  their 
use  of  the  Talm  as  a  means  for  their  agitation  against 
the  Jews. 

/.  Preliminary  Remarks  and  Verbal  Explana- 
tions.— (1)  n.Tl?)2  ,  Mishndh,  "the  oral  doctrine 
and  the  study  of  it"  (from  slidndh,  "to  repeat,"  "to 
learn,"  "to  teach"),  esp.  (a)  the  whole  of  the  oral 
law  which  had  come  into  existence  up  to  the  end  of 
the  2d  cent.  AD;  (b)  the,  whole  of  the  teaching  of 
one  of  the  rabbis  living  during  the  first  two  cen- 
turies AD  (taund',  pi.  tannti'int);  (c)  a  single  tenet; 
(tl)  a  collection  of  such  tenets;  (c)  above  all,  the  col- 
lection made  by  Rabbi  Jehudah  (or  Judah)  ha-XasI'. 

(2)  ^"1^23  ,  Gemara',  "the  matter  that  is  learned" 
(from  (finar,  "to  accomplish,"  "to  learn"),  denotes 
since  the  9th  cent,  the  collection  of  the  discussions 
of  the  Amoraim,  i.e.  of  the  rabbis  teaching  from 
about  200  to  500  AD. 

(3)  "P^bn,    Tnlmiidh,    "the   studying"  or   "the 
teaching,"  was  in  older  times  used  for  the  discussions 
of  the  Amoraim;   now  it  means  the  Mish  with  the 
discussions  thereupon. 

(4)  nD5n,     Ildldklidti    (from    hdlakh,    "to   go"): 
(a)  the  life  as  far  as  it  is  ruled  by  the  Law;    (b)  a 
statutory  precept. 

(5)  rn3n  .    Ilayyddhdh  (from  higyldh,  "to  tell"), 
the  non-halakhic  exegesis. 

//.  Importance  of  the  Talmud. — Commonly  the 
Talm  is  declared  to  be  the  Jewish  code  of  Law. 
But  this  is  not  the  case,  even  for  the  traditional  or 
"orthodox"  Jews.  Really  the  Talm  is  the  source 
whence  the  Jewish  Law  is  to  be  derived.  Who- 
soever wants  to  show  what  the  Jewish  Law  says 
about  a  certain  case  (point,  question)  has  to  com- 
pare at  first  the  tihulhdn  \lrukh  with  its  comm., 
then  the  other  codices  (Maimonides,  Alphasi,  etc) 
and  the  Rcsponsa,  and  finally  the  Talmudic  discus- 
sions; but  he  is  not  allowed  to  give  a  decisive  sen- 
tence on  the  authority  of  the  Talm  alone  (see  Intro, 
116,  117;  David  Hoffmann,  Der  Schulchan-Aruch, 
2d  ed,  Berlin,  1894,  38,  39).  On  the  other  hand,  no 
decision  is  valid  if  it  is  against  the  yield  of  the  Tal- 


290fj 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIHLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tale 
Talmud 


mudic  discussion.  The  liberal  (Reformed)  Jews 
say  (hat,  the  Tahn,  though  it  is  interesting  and,  as 
a  .Jewish  work  of  antiquity,  ever  venerable,  has  in 
itself  no  authority  for  faith  and  life. 

For  both  Christians  and  Jews  the  Talm  is  of 
value  for  the  following  reasons:  (1)  on  account  of 
the  language,  Ileb  being  used  in  many  parts  of  the 
Talm  (esp.  in  Haggadic  pieces),  Palestinian  Aram, 
in  the  Palestinian  Talm,  Eastern  Aram,  in  the 
Hal)  Talm  (cf  ''Literature,''  [7],  below).  The  Talm 
also  contains  words  of  Bab  anil  Pers  origin;  (2)  for 
folklore,  history,  geography,  natural  and  medical 
science,  jurisprudence,  archaeology  and  the  under- 
standing of  (lie  OT  (see  "Literature,"  [(>],  be- 
low, and  Intro,  159-75).  For  Christians  esp.  (he 
Talm  contains  very  much  which  may  help  the 
understanding  of  the  NT  (see  "Literature,"  [12], 
below). 

///.  The  Traditional  Law  until  the  Composition 
of  t  he  Mishna. — The  Law  found  in  the  Torah  of 
Moses  was  the  only  written  law  which  the  Jews 
possessed  after  their  return  from  the  Bab  exile. 
This  law  was  neither  complete;  nor  suflicient  for  all 
times.  On  account  of  the  ever-changing  conditions 
of  life  new  ordinances  became  necessary.  Who 
made  these  we  do  not  know.  An  authority  to  do 
this  must  have  existed;  but  the  claim  made  by 
many  that  after  the  days  of  Ezra  there  existed  a 
college  of  120  men  called  the  "Great  Synagogue" 
cannot  be  proved.  Entirely  untenable  also  is  the 
claim  of  the  traditionally  orthodox  Jews,  that  ever 
since  the  days  of  Moses  there  had  been  in  existence, 
side  by  side  with  the  written  Law,  also  an  oral  Law, 
with  all  necessary  explanations  and  supplements  to 
the  written  Law. 

What  was  added  to  the  Pentateuchal  Torah  was 
for  a  long  time  handed  down  orally,  as  can  be 
plainly  seen  from  Jos  and  Philo.  The  increase  of 
such  material  made  it,  necessary  to  arrange  it.  An 
arrangement  according  to  subject-matter  can  be 
traced  back  to  the  1st  cent.  AD;  very  old,  perhaps 
even  older,  is  also  the  formal  adjustment  of  this 
material  to  the  Pentateuchal  Law,  the  form  of 
Exegesis  (Midr).  CUiitro,  19-21. 

A  comprehensive  collection  of  traditional  laws 
was  made  by  Rabbi  Akiba  c  110-3.")  AD,  if  not  by 
an  earlier  scholar.  His  work  formed  the  basis  of 
that  of  Rabbi  Me'ir,  and  this  again  was  the  basis 
of  the  ed  of  the  Mish  by  Rabbi  Jehudah  ha-Nasi'. 
In  this  Mish,  the  Mish  par  r.m'/7</,rr,  the  anony- 
mous portions  generally,  although  not  always,  re- 
produce the  views  of  Rabbi  Me'ir.  See  TIBERIAS. 

The  predecessors  of  Rabbi  (as  R.  Jehfidah  ha-XasI', 
the  "prince"  or  the  "saint,"  is  usually  called),  as 
far  as  we  know,  did  not  put  into  written  form  then- 
collections;  indeed  it  has  been  denied  by  many,  esp. 
by  German  and  French  rabbis  of  the  Middle  Ages, 
that  Rabbi  put  into  written  form  the  Mish  which  he 
edited.  Probably  the  fact  of  the  matter  is  that 
1  lie  traditional  Law  was  not  allowed  to  be  used  in 
written  form  for  the  purposes  of  instruction  and  in 
decisions  on  matters  of  the  Law,  but  that  written 
collections  of  a  private  character,  collections  of 
notes,  to  use  a  modern  term,  existed  already  at  an 
early  period  (see  Intro,  lOf'f). 

IV.  Division  and  Contents  of  the  Mishna  (and 
the  Talmud). — The  Mish  (as  also  the  Talm)  is 
divided  into  six  "orders"  (.fdtiarlni)  or  chief  parts, 
the  names  of  which  indicate  their  chief  contents, 
viz.  Z''ra'7//(,  Agriculture;  Md'cdlt,  Feasts;  .\uxli  nn, 
Women;  h'''zlkltt,  Civil  and  Criminal  Law;  K<~/- 
tUiashlm,  Sacrifices;  T'hdnlth,  Unclean  Things  and 
Their  Purification. 

The  "orders"  arc  divided  into  tracts  (mnxsckhctlt.  pi. 
massikhtoth),  now  (»3,  and  these  again  into  chapters 
(l>erek,  pi.  pcrdklm),  and  those  again  into  paragraphs 
*(mishnayuth).  It  is  customary  to  cite  the  Mish  accord- 


ing to  tract,  chapter  and  paragraph,  e.g.  Sanh.  (Sa/thrilh- 
7- i/o  x.l.  Tins  Bab  Tahn  is  cited  according  to  tract 
and  page.  e.g.  (Huh)  Hlmhhdtk  :{<)/,.•  in  citing  the  Pales- 
tinian Talm  the  number  of  the  chapter  is  also  usually 
given,  e.g.  (Pal)  Hhahhnth  vi.S,/  (in  most  of  the  edd  of  the 
1  aleslinian  I  aim  each  j)age  has  two  columns,  the  sheet 
accordingly  has  four). 

(1;  H'-rdkliiith,  "Benedictions":  "Hear.  ()  Israel" 
(IK  6  4,  shema');  the  l.s  benedictions,  grace  at  meals 

and  other  prayers. 
1.  Zera'fm,         ('j >  !''i"!''9A  ( '(<)ri"'r"   ()f  l»<'  'i»'ld   (Lev 

^eec*s  05)    D'miVi,     "  Doubtful "     fruits     (corn 

etc)  of  which  it  is  uncertain  whether  tin- 
duty  for  the  priests  and,  in  the  fixed  years,  the  2d  tithe 
nave  been  paid. 

(4)  KU'nuim.  "Heterogeneous."  two  kinds,  forbidden 
mixtures   (Lev   19    1!>;     Dt    22  (.)ff). 

(5)  Sh'-hlnlth,    "Seventh    Year,"    Sabbalieal   year    (Ex 

23  11;    Lev  25  Iff):    Sh'mittfih  (Dt,  15   i  i\>. 

ic/'V  TT''r'~tm'~'lh-  "Heave  Offerings"  for  the  priests  (Xu 
18  <S  f  i;  Dt  18  4). 

(7)  Ma'&siTiJth  or  Ma'uKi'r  rTnhOn,  "First  Tithe"  (Xu 
18  21  ff ) . 

(S)    Ma'iiKcr  sfif-nl,  "Second  Tithe"   (Dt    14  22  ff). 

(!»)  IJallali,  (offering  of  a  part  of  the;  "Dough"  (Xu 
15  l.s  ff). 

(10)  'Orlah,    "Foreskin"    of    fruit    trees    during    the 
first  three  years  (Ley   19   23). 

(11)  Bikkurlm,    "First-Fruits"    (Dt    26    1  ff;    Ex  23 

(1)  Khabbath  (Ex  20  10;    23  12;    Dt  5  14). 

(2)  'Erubhln,    "Mixtures,"    i.e.    ideal   combination  of 

localities  with   the   purpose  of   facilitating 

2.  Mb'edh,    tne    observance  of    the    Sabbatical    laws 

"Feasts"        23  5  ff  ;*  jfulja'Sflrf^lSt  16  *  ^2;oh ''•»' 

the  Second    Passover   (Xu   9    10  ff)' 

33!4)Ex;3o'l2  fn:ShekelS       fOF   tht>  Templ6    (cf  'Xt'h   10 

(.->)    K»md',  "The  Day"  of  Atonement  CL<>v  16^ 
•*4.  ff-   'ST^'OQ'   "B°°t:h-"   Feast   of  Tabernacles   ( 

,-/7)  .^f''/l:  ,','E"K" ,  (firsl  word  of  the  treatise)  or  Yfnn 
tobh,  Feast,  on  the  difference  between  the  Sabbath 
and  festivals  (cf  Ex  12  10). 

(S)  AV.S/J  Ita-xhdnillt.  "  Xew  Year,"  first  day  of  the 
month  Tishri  (Lev  23  24  f;  Xu  29  1  ff) 

(<»    Ta'dnlth,  "Fasting." 

UO)    Meghillah,    "The   Roll"    of   Esther,    Purim    (Est 

(11)  Mo'edh  kilt  fin,  "  Minor  Feast,"  or  .If  n.v/i  kin    "  They 
irrigate"  (first  word  of  the  treatise),  t  he  days  between  the 

irst  day  and  the  last  day  of  the  feast  of  'Passover  and 
likewise  of  Tabernacles. 

(12)  Ifdghighah,  "  Feast  Offering,"  statutes  relating  to 
the  three  feasts  of  pilgrimage  (Passover,  Weeks    Taber- 
nacles :  cf  Dt   16  1(>  f. 

(1)     Yebhamoth,     "  Sisters-in-Law "      (perhaps    better 
V  'M'i"22  94)CVlrate  marriage;    m  25  f)ir;    cf  Ruth  4 
(2)    Kfthubhoth,   "Marriage   Deeds." 

3.  Nashlm,         (;i)    -^dhi'irlm,  "Vows,"  and  their  annul- 

"Wnmon"         ment    (^u    30). 

(4)    Nazir,  "  X"a/irite"  (Xu  6) 

24  l:  cf  Mt5  31?   Gi''1""    "LetterS   °f    Divorcc"    (Dt 
(fi)   $r>tah,  "The  Sus])ected  Woman"   (Xu   5   11  ff) 
(7)    Kiddushln,  "Betrothals." 

•'a',  Bdbha 


23 


(c)  right  of   possession. 


(4)  and  (5)  Sanhedhrln,  "Court  of  Jus- 
tice, and  Makkmh,  "Stripes"  (Dt  25  1  If;  cf  1  Cor 
11  24)  In  ancient  times  only  one  treatise;  criminal 


law  and  criminal  proceedings. 

((i)  Sh'bhu'oth,  "Oaths"  (Lev  5  1  ff). 

(7)  \Kdhuymh.  "Attestations"  of  later  teachers  as  to 
the  opinions  of  former  authorities. 

(S)  'Ablwdlulh  zdrtih,  "Idolatry,"  commerce  and  inter- 
course with  idolaters. 

(!))   '^Abhdth,  (sayings  of  the)  "Fathers";   sayings  of  the 

Tun  nil'  im. 

(10)  llornuoth.  (erroneous)  "Decisions."  and  the  sin 
Offering  to  be  brought  in  such  a  case  (Lev  4  13  ff) 

(1)  Zrbhahlm,   "Sacrifices"    (Lev    Iff) 

(2)  Menahoth.     "Meal  Offerings"     (Lev  2   ~>  11  ff-     6 

7  ff:    Xu  5   1">  If.  etc). 
5.  Kodha-          (:5)    f.1  ""'"'•  ,"<  'ommon  Things."    things 

non-sacred:    slaughtering  of  animals  and 
shim,  birds  for  ordinary  use. 

"Sacred  <''     B'khuroth,    "The     Firstborn"      (Ex 

Things"         Jfc)2-1  l^y  27  2»if.32;      Nu  8  6  ff, 

(5)    'Ardkhin,     "Estimates,"      "Valua- 
tions    of   persons   and  things   dedicated    to   God    (Lev 


Talmud 
Tamar 


TIIH  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  FA'CYCLOPAKDIA 


2906 


"Clean 
Things" 


Npgha'lm,  "  Leprosy "  (Lev  13,  14). 
Parah,     "Red     Heifer";      its    ashes 


(())  T'miirah,  "Substitution"  of  a  common  (non- 
sacred)  thing  for  a  sacred  one  (cf  Lev  27  10. 33). 

(7)  K'T'ithutfi,   "Excisions,"   the  punishment  of  being 
cut  off  from  Israel  ((Jen   17   M;    Ex    12   15.  etc). 

(8)  M'-"tliih,    "Unfaithfulness,"    as    to   sacred    things, 
embezzlement  (Nu  5  <>  If:    Lev  5  15  f>. 

(9)  Ttimidh,  "The  Daily  Morning   and    Evening   Sac- 
rifice" (Kx  29  38  If;   Nu  38  3  If). 

(10)  Middoth,  "Measurements"  of  the  Temple. 

(11)  Kin  aim,    "Nests,"    tlie    offering    of    two   turtle- 
doves or  two  young  pigeons  (Ley  1    !4(f;    5    I  if;    12  8). 

Tliis  title  is  used  euphemistically  for  "unclean 
things": 

(I)  K<--lim,   "Vessels"    (Lev  6  20  f;     11  32  If;    Nu  19 
14  If;   31  20  if). 

('21    '(ilioloth.     "Tents,"     the     impurity 
6    Teharolh    originating    with   a  corpse  or  a  part  of  it 
'   (cf  Nu  19  14 
(3) 
(•I) 

used  for  the  purpose  of    purification    (Nu 
19  2  ft").      See  II  BIFKK,  KKI>. 

(5)  T'hnroth,  "Clean  Things,"  euphemistically  for 
defilements. 

((>)  Mikwii'fith,  "Diving-Baths"  (Lev  15  12;  Xu  31 
33;  Lev  14  S;  15  5  if;  cf  Mk  7  -1). 

(7)  Xiddah,  "The  Menstruous"  (Lev  15  19  ff;   12). 

(8)  ^f<^k>lt!hlrn^,    "  Pre|)arers,"  or   Miishkiii,  "Fluids" 
(first  word  of  the  treatise).     Seven  liquids  (wine,  honey, 
oil,  milk,  dew,  blood,  water)  which  tend  to  cause;  corn, 
etc,  to  become  defiled  (cf  Lev  11  34.37H. 

(9)  Zabliim,   "Persons   Having  an  Issue,"  flux    (Lev 
15). 

(10)  Tfbhiil    yom,    "A    Person    Who    Has    Taken    the 
Ritual  Bath  during  the  Day,"  and  is  unclean  until  sun- 
set (Lev   15  5;    22  (>  f). 

(II)  Yridhtu/im,     "Hands,"     the    ritual    impurity    of 
hands   and    their   purification    (cf    Mt  15  2.20;     Mk  7 
22  If). 

(12)  'Ukfin,  "Stalks,"  the  conveyance  of  ritual  im- 
purity by  means  of  the,  stalks  and  hulls  of  plants. 

V.  The    Palestinian     Talmud. — Another    name, 
Tahnildh  Y'nlx/ittliiil  (".Torus  Tulm"),  is  also  old,  but 
not  accurate.     The  Palestinian  Talm  gives  tlie  dis- 
cussions of  the  Palestinian  Amoraiin,  teaching  from 
the  3d  cent.  AD  until  the  beginning  of  the  5th,  esp. 
in  the  schools  or  academies  of  Tiberias,  Caesarea 
and  Sepphoris.     The  odd  and  the  Leyden  MS  (in  the 
oilier  MSS  there  are  but  few  treatises)  contain  only 
the  four  .fiUidrun  i-iv  and  a  part  of  Nidi  I  ah.     \Ve 
do  not  know  whether  the  other  treal  ises  had  at  any 
time  a  Palestinian  Gemara.     "The  Mish  on  which 
the  Palestinian  Talm  rests"  is  said  to  bo  found  in 
the  MS  Add.  470.1  of  the  University  Library,  Cam- 
bridge, England    (ed    W.    H.    Lowe,    1SS3).      The 
treatises!  ^Edlnn/dth  and  'Abhoth  have  no  Gemara 
in  the  Palestinian  Talm  or  in  the  Bab. 

Some  of  the  most  famous  Palestinian  Amoraim  may 
be  mentioned  here  (cf  Intro,  99fT):  1st  generation: 
llTuiiiia  bar  Kama,  Jannai,  Jonathan,  Osha'ya,  the 
Haggadist  Joshua  ben  Levi;  2d  generation:  Johanan 
bar  Nappaha,  Simeon  ben  Lakish;  3d_  generation: 
Samuel  bar  Nahman,  Levi,  Eliezer'ben  Pedath,  Abbahu, 
Ze'ira  (i) ;  4th' generation:  Jeremiah,  Aha',  Abin  (i), 
Jiidah,  Huna;  5th  generation:  Jonah,  Phinehas,  Bere- 
chiali,  Jose  bar  Abin,  Maul  (ii),  Tanhuma'. 

VI.  The  Babylonian    Talmud.—  The   Bab   Talm 
is  later  and  more;  voluminous  than  the  Palestinian 
Talm,  and  is  a  higher  authority  for  the  Jews.     In 
the   first    scdhcr   only    BTakhoth   has   a    Gemara; 
Slfkallm  in  the  2d  scdher  has  in  the  MSS  and  in 
the  edd  the  Palestinian  Gemara;  Middoth  and  Kin- 
nim  in  the  5th  scdher  have  no  Bab  Gemara.     The 
greatest   Jewish   academies   in  Babylonia  were   in 
Nehardea,  Sura,  Pnmbeditha  and  Mahuza. 

Among  the  greatest  Bab  Amoraim  are  the  following  (cf 
Intro  99  ff):  1st  generation:  Abba  Arlkha  or,  shortly, 
Rab  in  Sura  (d.  247  AD).  Mar  Samuel  in  Nehardea  (d. 
254  AD).  2d  generation:  Rab  Huna,  Rab_Judah  (bar 
Ezekiel).  3d  generation:  Rab  Hisda,  RabShesheth,  Rab 
Naliman  (bar  Jacob),  Rabbah  '(rG~l)  bar  Hana,  the 
story-teller,  Rabbah  bar  Nahmani,_  Rab  Joseph  (d.  323 
AD).  4th  general  ion:  Abaye,  Kaba  (^3"1)  (bar  Joseph). 

5th  generation:    Rab  Papa.     Oth  generation:    Amemar, 
Rab  Ashl. 

VII.  The    Non- canonical  Little    Treatises    and 
the  Tosephta'. — In  the  edd  of  the  Bab  Talm  after 


2.  Seven 

Little 

Treatises 


the   -11  h   sedhcr   we  find   some  treatises  which,   as 

they  are  not  without  some  interest,  we  shall  not 
pass  over  in  silence,  though  they  do 

1.  Treatises  not  belong  to  the  Talm  itself  (cf  inlro, 

after  the        09  ff ) . 

4th  sedher  (1)  'Abhoth  drRabbl  Nathan,  an  ex- 
pansion of  the  treatise  'Abhoth,  ed  S. 

Schechter,  Vienna,  1SS7. 

(2)  tfoi>hrrlm,  ed  Joel  M tiller,  Leipzig,  1S7S. 

(3)  '  Ebhd  Jtdhhathl,  "Mourning,"  or,  euphemisti- 
cally, Wniahdth,  "Joys." 

(4)  Kalldh,  "Bride." 

(5)  Dcrekh  'ori;,   "Way  of  the  World,"  i.e.   De- 
portment; Rabba'  and  Ztita',  "Large"  and  "Small." 

X<'l>tem  Libri  Talmudici  purri  Hierolymitani,  ed 
R.  Kirchheim,  Frankfurt  a.  Main,  1S51:  tif'/>h<r 

Torah,     Mezuzah,     Tephillln,     QlglLht 

*AbhaiUnm,       Kidhlm      (Samaritans), 

dcrim  (Proselytes). 

Tlie    Tosephtd',   a  work  parallel  to 

Rabbi's  Mish,  is  said  to  represent  the 
views  of  R.  Nehemiah,  disciple  of  R.  Akiba,  ed  M.  S. 
Zuckennandel,  Posewalk,  1S80.  Zuckermandel 
t  ries  to  show  t  hat  1  he  Toxcphta'  contains  the  remains 
of  the  old  Palestinian  Mish,  and  that  the  work 
commonly  called  Mish  is  tlie  product  of  a  new 
revision  in  Babylonia  (cf  his  Toscpfdti,  Mischna  und 
Boraitha  in  ihrcm  Verbatim's  zu  cinander,  2  vols, 
Frankfurt  a.  Main,  1<H)S,  !<)()!)). 

LTTEUATURE. —  (1)  Introa:  Hermann  L.  Strack,  Kin- 
It-itutia  in  d.  Talm,  4th  ed,  Leip/ig,  190S,  in  which  other 
books  on  this  subject  art;  mentioned,  pp.  139-44. 

(2)  Manuscripts  (Intro,  72-70):   There  are  MSS  of  the 
whole  Mish  in  Parma,  in  Budapest,  and  in  Cambridge, 
Kngland  (the  latter  is  published  by  \V.  II.  Lowe,  1SS3). 
The  only  codex  of  the   Palestinian  Talm  is  in  Leydcn; 
Louis  Ginsberg,   Yrruxluilmi  Frm.imf.nts  from  the  (lenizah, 
vol  I,  text  with  various  readings  from  the  cdilio  princ.cpx, 
Xew  York,  1909  (372  pp.,  4to).     The  only  codex  of  the 
Bab  Talm  was  published  whole  in  1912  by  the  present 
writer:     Talmud   Hub   codicis    II eb    Monacensis   95   pkoto- 
tyiricr.  drjuctum,  Leyden   (1140  plates,  royal  folio).      On 
the   MSS   in  the  Vatican  see  S.  Denser,  ZDMG,  1909, 
:50.">-'.)3.0l>0,  S22f . 

(3)  Editions   (Intro,  70-S1):    (a)  Mish,  editio  princeps, 
Naples,  1492,  folio,  with  thecomm.  of  Moses  Maimonides; 
Rira  di   Tri'iito,   1559,  folio,  contains  also  the  comm.  of 
Obadiah  di  Bertinoro.     The  new   ed    printed   in  Wilna 
contains    a    great    number   of  comms.      (b)    Palestinian 
Talm,  ciiilio  princeps,  Venice,  1523  f,  folio;  Cracow,  1009, 
folio.     Of  a  new  ed  begun  by  A.  M.  Luncz,  Jerus,  190S  If, 
two  books,    B''rnkhf>tli  and  Pi-' ah,  are   already  iiublished. 
Anot  her  new  critical  ed.  with  Ger.  tr  and  notes,  was  begun 
in  1912  by  G.   Beer  and  O.   Holtzmann   (Die   Mischna, 
Giessen).     Cf  also  B.  Ratner,  Ahabath  Qijjon  Wirushala- 
yim,     Variantrn    und    Enj/itizungen    des   Jerus    Talmuds, 
Wilna,    1901  If.      (r)    Bab   Talm,  editio  princeps,  Venice,, 
1520-23.     The  ed,  Bale,  1578-81,  is  badly  disfigured  by 
the  censorship  of  Marcus  Marinus,  Amsterdam,   1044- 
48.    Berlin    1 802-6(5.     Of    R.    Rabbinowicz,    Variac    Lrc- 
tiones  in   Mink  el  in   Talm   Habi/lonicum,  Munich,   1 80S- 
80,    Przemysl,   1897     (tlie   s>'dharlm  3,    0   and  5   in  part 
are  missing). 


tains  also  a  trof  Maimonides  and  Obadiah  di  Bertinoro); 
Ger  •  J.  .1.  Rabe,  Onolzbach,  1700  If;  A.  Sammter,  D. 
Hoffmann  and  others,  Berlin,  1887  IT  (not  yet  complete) ; 
Eng.:  De  Sola  and  Raphall,  18  Treatises  from  the  Mi*h, 
London,  1843;  Jos.  Barclay,  The  Talm,  a  Tr  of  18  Tr,a- 
tises,  London,  1878  (but  7  treatises  also  in  De  Sola  and 
Raphall-  Fiebig,  AuxgewithUe  Mischnatractate,  Tubin- 
gen, 1905  fl"  (annotated  Ger.  tr).  (6)  Palestinian  Talm, 
Lat:  20  treatises  in  B.  Ugolini,  Thesaurus  antiquitatum 
sacrarum,  vols  XVII-XXX,  Venice,  1755  ff.  French: 
M.  Schwab,  Paris,  1878-89  (in  1890  appeared  a  2d  ed  of 
vol  I)  (c)  Bab  Talm,  Ger.:  L.  Goldschmiclt,  Berlin 
(Leipzig),  1897  ff;  gives  also  the  text  of  the  1st  Venetian 
cd  and  some  variant  readings  (fdharim  1,  2,  and  4  are 
complete) ;  A.  Wiinsche,  Der  Bafi  Talm  in  seinen  haggadi- 
schen  Bestandteilen  iibersetzt,  Leipzig,  1880-89.  Eng.: 
M.  L.  Rodkinson,  New  Ed  of  the  Bab  Talm  ....  Tr<l 
into  Eng..  New  York,  1890  ff  (is  rather  an  abridgment 
[  unreliable]). 

(5)  Comms.  (Intro,  140-51):  (a)  Mish:  Moses  Mai- 
monides (1135-1204),  Obadiah  di  Bertinoro  (d.  1510), 
Yom-Tobh  Lipmann  Heller  (1579-1054),  Israel  Lip- 
schtitz'.  (b)  Bab  Talm:  Rashi  or  Solomon  Yichaki  (d. 
1105);  The  Tosilphdth  (see  L.  Zunz,  Zur  Geschichte  und 
Literatur,  Berlin,  1845,  29-00);  Menahem  ben  Solomon 


2907 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Talmud 
Tamar 


or  Me'Iri  (1249-1300);  Solomon  Luria  (d.  1573),  com- 
monly culled  Maharshal;  Bezaleel  Ashkena/.i  (10th  (•cut,.), 
author  of  the  Shift, ih  Afkubbcceth;  Samuel  ICdels  (1559- 
1031)  or  Mahar's'ha';  Meir  Lublin  (d.  Kilti);  Elijah 
Wilna  (d.  1797);  Akiba  Kger  (d.  1837). 

(0)  Single  treatises  (Ct  Intro,  151-55):  (a)  Mish:  The 
present  writer  is  publishing:  Ausi/ewahlte  lifiinatraktate, 
nnch  Handschriften  und  alien  Drucken  (Text  vokalisiert, 
\ okabular) ,  uberselzt  und  mil  Beriicksichtigung  des 
N cue  11  Testaments  erldutert,  Leipzig  (J.  C.  Hinrichs) ; 
Yfimii',  3d  ed,  1912,  '  Abhodhah  ZCirah,  2d  ed,  1909,  J'irke 
'Abhoth,  4th  ed,  1914,  Shabtxith,  2d  ed,  1914,  $anhedhrin, 
Makkoth.  1910,  P'sdhim,  1911,  H'rdkhoth,  1914.  This 
series  is  to  be  continued  (II.  Laible,  e.g.,  is  writing  N<ldhd- 
r'un);  (Ml.  Taylor,  Sm/ini/a  "/  the.  Jewish  Fut/iers,  in  lie!) 
and  Kng.,  2d  ed,  Cambridge,  1897;  \V.  A.  L.  Klmslie, 
The  Mish  on  Idolatry,  with  Tr,  Cambridge,  1911.  (I,) 
(iemara.  li'rdkhoth,  Ger.:  E.  M.  Pinner,  Berlin,  1S42,  fol; 
I'e'fih  (Palestinian  Talm),  Ger.:  J.  J.  Rabe,  Ansbacli, 
1781  ;  Sukkdh,  Lat:  F.  B.  Dachs,  Utn>cht,  172fi,4to;  ]{,-,' sh 
ha-shdndh,  (Jer.:  M.  Rawicz,  Frankfurt  a.  Main,  1SSO; 
Ta'dnlth.Ger.:  Straschun,  Halle,  1SS3;  Hdghighah,'Eng.: 
A.  W.  Streane,  Cambridge,  1891;  Kethubhoth,  Ger.:  M. 
Rawiez,  1S91;  $dtah,  Lat:  J.  Chr.  Wagenseil,  Altdorf, 
1074-7H;  HdbhCi'  Mef I'd',  Ger.:  A.  Sammter,  Berlin,  1870, 
fol;  $anhedhrin,  Lat:  Ugolini,  Thesaurus,  volXXV,  Ger. : 
M.  Rawiez,  1S92;  'Abhodhah  ZCirah,  Ger.:  F.  Chr.  Kwald, 
Nurnberg,  1850;  Z'!bhdhln  and  Mendhdth,  Lat:  Ugolini, 
Thesaurus, volXTX;  If ullln,GeT.:  M.  Rawicz,  Orenburg, 
1908;  Tamidh.'Lat,:  tlgolini,  Thesaurus,  vol  XIX. 

(7)  Helps  for  the  Grammatical  Uiiderstandimj  (Intro, 
155-58):  (a)  Mish:  M.  H.  Segal,  "Mi.siiaic  Hebrew," 
J(JI{,  1908,  647-737;  K.  Albrecht,  Grammatik  des  Ncu- 
hebrdischen  (Sprache  der  Minima),  Munich,  1913;  (b) 
Talmud:  J.  Levy,  Neuhebr.  und  chuld.  Wiirterbuch, 
Leipzig.  1870-89;  M.  Jastrow,  Dictionary  of  the  .... 
Talmud  Hub  and  Yerushalmi,  New  York,  1880-1903; 
W.  Bather,  Die  Terminologie  der  jii<l.  Traditionsliteratnr, 
Leipzig,  1905;  G.  Dalman,  Grammatik  des  judisch- 
paldstin.  Aramdisch,  2d  ed,  Leipzig,  1905;  C.  Levias, 
Grammar  of  the  Aramaic  Idiom  Contained  in  the  Hub 
Talmud,  Cincinnati,  1900;  Max  L.  Margolis,  Grammar 
of  the  Aram.  Language  of  the  Bab  Talm  with  a  Chrcstorn- 
athu,  Munich,  1909. 

(H)  The  flaij'jadah  (Intro,  159-62):  The  Haggadic  ele- 
ments of  the  Palestinian  Talm  are  collected  by  Samuel 
JalFc  in  Y'  pheh  Mar' eh,  Constantinople,  1587,  etc,  those 
of  the  Bab  by  Jacob  ibn  Ilabib  in  'En  Ya'akdbh,  Saloniki, 
about  1510,  etc;  W.  Bacher,  Die  Agada  der  Tannaiten, 
2  vols,  Strassburg,  1884,  1890  (1st  vol.  2d  ed,  1903) ;  Die 
A.  der  babylon.  A  murder,  1878;  Die  A.  der  palastinensi- 
schen  Amoraer,  1892-99,  3  vols;  P.  T.  Horshoil,  A  Tal- 
mudic  Miscellany  or  1001  Extracts,  London,  1880;  Treas- 
ures of  the  Talm,  London,  1882. 

(!))  Theology  (Intro,  102-65):  F.  Weber,  Judische 
Theologie,  2d  ed,  Leipzig,  1897;  J.  Klausner,  Die  mes- 
sianischen  Vorstellungen  des  jud.  Volkes  im  Zeitaller  der 
Tannaiten,  Berlin,  1904;  R.  T.  Herford,  Christianity 
in  Talmud  and  Midrash,  London,  1903;  H.  L.  Strack, 
Jesus,  die  Hdretikcr  und  die  Christen  nach  den  dltistin 
jud.  Angaben  (texts,  tr,  comm.),  Leipzig,  1910;  L. 
Blau,  Das  altjudische  Zauberwesen,  Budapest,  1898;  M. 
Lazarus,  Die  Ethik  des  Judentums,  2  vols,  Frankfurt  a. 
Main,  1898,  1911. 

(10)  The  Talm  and  the  OT  (Intro.  107  f) :  G.  Aicher,  Das 
AT  in  der  Misrhna,  Freiburg  i.  Baden,  1900;  V.  Aptowit- 
zer.  Dux  Schriftirort  in  der  rabbin.  Literatur,  4  parts,  Wieil, 
1900—11  (to  be  continued;  various  readings  in  the  ((nota- 
tions); P.  T.  Hershon,  Gen,  with  a  Talmudical  Comm., 
London, 1883. 

.(11)  The  Talm  and  the  NT  (Intro,  105-67):  .Toll. 
Lightfoot,  Horae  hebraicae  et  talmudicae,  ed  Leusden, 
2  vols,  fol  T,  Franeker,  1699;  Chr.  Schottgen,  Horae 
hebraicae  et  talmudicae  in  universum  Novum  Test.,  2  vols, 
4to,  Dresden,  1733;  Franz  Delitzsch,  "Horae  hebraicae 
et  talmudicae,"  in  Zeiischrift  fur  die  genammte  lather. 
Theologie  u.  Kirche,  1876-78;  Aug.  Wunsche,  Neue 
lit'itratje  zur  Erlduterung  der  Evangelien  aus  Talm  und 
Midr,  Goettingen,  1878;  Th.  liobinsoii.  The  Evangelists 
and  the  Mish,  London,  1859;  W.  H.  Bennett,  The  Mish 
as  Illustrating  the  Gospels,  Cambridge,  1884;  Erich 
Bischoff,  Jesus  itnd  die  Rabbinen,  Jesu  Bergpredigt  und 
" II immelreich"  in  ihrer  Unabhdngigkeit  vom  Rabbinismus, 
Leipzig,  1905. 

(12)  Jurisprudence  (Intro,   169-71):    J.  L.  Saalschiitz, 
Das  Mosaische  Recht,  2d  ed,  Berlin,  1853;    Jos.  Kohler, 
"  Darstellung  des  talmudischen   Rechts,"   in   Zcitschrift 
fiir    vergleichende   Rechts wissenschaft,    1908,    101-2ti4;    7j. 
Frankel,    Der   gcrirhtliche    Beireis    nach    mosais/-h-talmud 
Reehte.  Berlin,   1846;    P.  B.   Benny,    The   Criminal    Code 
of  the  Jeu-s,  London,  1880;    S.  Mendelsohn,  The  Criminal 
Jurisprudence  of  the   Ancient   Hebrews,   Baltimore,    1891; 
H.  B.  Fassel,  Das  mosaisch-rabbinische  Cirilrecht,  Gross- 
Kanischa,   2  vols,    1852-54;     Das  mos.-rabb.   Gerichtsver- 
fahren   in   civilrcchtl.    Sachen,    1859;     M.   Mielziner,    The 
Jewish   Law  of  Marriage  and   Divorce,   Cincinnati,    1884; 
D.  W.  Amram,  The  Jewish  Law  of  Divorce,  Philadelphia, 
1890;     M.  Rapaport,  Der  Talmud  und  sein  Recht,  Berlin 
1912. 

(13)  History    (Intro,    171  f):     J.    Derenbourg,    Histoire 
de  la  Palestine  depuis  Cyrus  jusqu'a  Adrien,  Paris,  1867; 


L.    Herzfeld,     Handelsgexrhirhtc    der    Jnden    des    Altertums, 

2<1  ed,  Braunschweig,  1894;  A.  Uiichler,  The  Political 
and  the  Social  Leaders  of  tlte  Jewish  Commiiniti/  of  ,SYp- 
ptioris,  London,  1909;  S.  Funk,  Die  J  mien  in  Babylonien 
200-r,00,  2  vols,  Berlin,  1902,  190S. 

(14)  Medical     Science     (Intro,    173):     Jul.    Preuss,    Bi- 
blisch-talmudische    Mxlizin,   Berlin,    1911     (735pp.);     L. 
Kotelmann,    Die   Ophthalmologie   bei   den   alien    JJcbrde.ru, 
Hamburg,  1910  (430  ]>p  .). 

(15)  Arrhaeologi/:    Sam.    Ivrauss,    Talmudische  Archdo- 
logie,  3  vols,  Leipzig,  1910-12. 

HKUMANV   L.  STKATK 

TALSAS,  t;il'sas  (A,  SaXoas,  <SV/Wr/.s,  H,  Zd\- 
6as,  Zdltlms;  RV  "Salons"  ;:  In  1  J'lsd  9  22  AV  = 
"Elashu"  of  Ezr  10  22. 

TAMAH,  ta'ma.     Sec  TEMAH. 


TAMAR,     ta'mar    (^^P,  ,    (attiur,    "palm";      B, 
Qr\\>.a.p,  Tliemdr,  A,  0a(idp,  Thainnr  [so  B  in  Gen]): 

(1)  The   wife   of   Er,    the   old  en  t   son   of   Judah 
(Gen  38  Off).     On    her    husband's    death    under 
the  displeasure  of  Jeh,  his  brother  Onan  ought  to 
have  performed  the  husband's  part,  but  he  evaded 
his   duty   in    this   respect.,    and   likewise   perished. 
Shelah,  the  next  brother,  was  promised  to  her,  but 
not  given.     This  led  Tamar  to  the  extraordinary 
course    narrated    in    Gen  38  13  ff,    on    which    see 
JroAir.     By    her    father-in-law    she    became    the 
mother    of    Perez    and    Zerah    (AV    "Pharez    and 
Zarah").     Judah,  who  at  first  condemned  her  to  be 
burned   (ver  24),  was  compelled  to  vindicate  her 
(vs  25.26).     Through  Perez  she  became  an  ances- 
tress of  Jesus  (Qafj.dp,  Thamdr,  Mt  1  3). 

(2)  A  daughter  of  David  and  sister  of  Absalom 
(2  S  13  1  ff).     Pier     beauty    inflamed    her     half- 
brother  Amnon   with   passion,    and   by   stratagem 
he    forcibly    violated    her.     This    brought     upon 
Amnon    the    terrible    revenge;    of    Absalom.     See 
ABSALOM;  AMNON. 

(3)  A  daughter  of    Absalom    (2  S  14  27).      See 
MAACAH.  JAMES  ORR 

TAMAR     ("T^n,    tamur,  "palm    tree";    Gaijidv, 
Thai-man)  : 

(1)  This  name  occurs  in  Ezekiel's  ideal  delimita- 
tion of  the  territory  to  be  occupied  by  Israel  (47 
19;   48  28).     The  Dead  Sea  is  the  eastern  border; 
and  the  southern  boundary  runs  from  Tamar  as 
far  as  the  waters  of  Meriboth-kadesh  to  the  Brook 
of  Egypt  and  the  Great  Sea.     The  place  therefore 
lay  somewhere  to  the  S.W.  of  the  Dead  Sea.     "Ha- 
zazon-tarnar  (the  same  is  En-gedi)"  (2  Ch  20  2)  is 
of  course  out  of  the  question,  being  much  too  far 
to  theN.    Onom  mentions  Asasonthamar,  with  which 
Thamara  was  identified.     This  place  was  a  village 
with  fortress  and  Rom  garrison,  a  day's  journey 
from  Mampsis  on  the  way  from  Hebron  to  Elath. 
It  is  the  Thamaro  mentioned  by  Ptolemy  (v.16,  8), 
as  a  military  station  on  the  road  from  Hebron  to 
Petra.     It  is  named  also  in  the  Peutinger  Tables. 
Neither  Mampsis  nor  Thamaro  has  been  identified. 

(2)  Among  the  towns   "built"    or   fortified    by 
Solomon,  named  in  1  K  9  18,  is  Tamar  (RV  fol- 
lowing K°thibh),  or  Tadmor  (AV  following  Kcre; 
cf  2  Ch  8  4).      Gezer,   Beth-horon  and    Baalath, 
named    along   with    it,    are   all   in    Southern    Pal, 
while  Tamar  is  described  as  in  the  wilderness  in  the 
land,  pointing  to  the  Negeb  or  to  the  Wilderness  of 
Judah.     It  was  probably  intended  to  protect  the 
road  for  trade  from  Ezion-gober  to  Jerus.     We  may 
with  some  confidence  identify  it  with    (1)  above. 
It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the;  Chronicler  (2  Ch 
8  4)  takes  it  out  of  connection  with  the  other  cities 
(ver  5),  and  brings  its  building  into  relation  with 
Solomon's  conquest  of  Hamath-zobah.     Clearly  in 
his  mind  it  denoted  the  great  and  beautiful  city  of 
Palmyra,  which  has  so  long  been  known  as  "Tad- 
mor in  the  Wilderness."  W.  EWING 


Tamarisk 
Taralah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  .STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


TAMARISK,  lam'a-risk:  (1)  brx  ,  'cshd  (Gen 
21  .'{:'),  A\'  "grove,"  in  "tree";  1  S  22  0,  AV  "tree," 
in  "grove";  1  S  31  i:i,  AY"  "tree").  The  KV 

tr  is  due  to  the  similarity  of  'r.s/ic/  to  the  Anil). 
'dt/il,  "the  ta.inari.sk."  (2)  "I>"1"  ,  W«/-  (Jer  17 
(>  in  fcf  48  6],  EV  "heath"  [q.v!]).  The  tamarisk 
(TiniHirix,  with  various  species  in  Pal,  chiefly 
T.  Xt/riam)  is  a  very  characteristic  tree  of  Pal,  esp. 
in  the  Maritime  Plain,  near  the  sea  itself,  and  in 
the  Jordan  valley.  Eight  species  are  described. 
They  an;  characterized  by  their  brittle,  feathery 
branches  and  by  their  tiny  scale-like  leaves.  Some 
varieties  flourish  not  infrequently  in  salty  soil 
unsuited  to  any  ordinary  vegetation. 

E.  \V.  G.  MASTERMAN 

TAMMTJZ,  tam'uz,  tam'mooz  (P^P  ,  t/numtlz; 
0o.|Afj.ox>£,  Thiun/nouz): 

(\)  The  name  of  a  Phoen  deity,  the  Adonis  of 
the:  Greeks.  He  \vus  originally  a  Sumerian  or  Bab 
sun-god,  called  Dumuzii,  the  husband  of  Ishtar, 
who  corresponds  to  Aphrodite  of  the  Greeks.  The 
worship  of  these  deities  was  introduced  into  Syria, 
in  very  early  t  hues  under  the  designation  of  Tammu/ 
and  Astarte,  and  appears  among  the  Greeks  in  the; 
myth  of  Adonis  and  Aphrodite,  who  are  identified 
with  Osiris  and  Isis  of  the  Egyp  pantheon,  showing 
how  widespread  the  cult  became.  The  Bab  myth 
represents  Dumu/u,  or  Tammuz,  as  a  beautiful 
shepherd  slain  by  a  wild  boar,  the  symbol  of  winter. 
Ishtar  long  mourned  for  him  and  descended  into 
the  underworld  to  deliver  him  from  the  embrace 
of  death  (1'Yazer,  A'lonin,  Attix  ami  O.v/Y/V).  This 
mourning  for  Tammu/  was  celebrated  in  Babylonia 
by  women  on  the  2d  day  of  the  4th  month,  which 
thus  acquired  the  name  of  Tammuz  (see  CALKXDAK). 
This  custom  of  weeping  for  Tammu/  is  referred  to 
in  the  Bible  in  the  only  passage  where  the  name 
occurs  (E/k  8  14).  The  cl  ief  seat  of  the  cult  in 
Syria  was  Gebal  (modern  Urbuil,  Gr  /{iiblox)  in 
Phoenicia,  to  the  S.  of  which  the  river  Adonis 
(.V«//r  Ibrahim)  has  its  mouth,  and  its  source  is  the 
magnificent-  fountain  of  Apheca  (modern  M//.V/I, 
where  was  the  celebrated  tempi*1  of  Venus  or  Aphro- 
dite, the  ruins  of  which  still  exist.  The  women  of 
Gebal  used  to  repair  to  this  temple  in  midsummer 
to  celebrate;  the;  death  of  Adonis  or  Tammuz,  and 
there  arose  in  connection  with  this  celebration 
those  licentious  rites  which  rendered  the  cult  so 
infamous  that  it  was  suppressed  by  Constantino 
the  Great. 

The  name  Adonis,  by  which  this  deity  was  known 
to  the  Greeks,  is  none;  other  than  the  Phoen  ]1~S5  , 
'A/Uion,  which  is  the  same  in  Heb.  His  death  is 
supposed  to  typify  the  long,  dry  summer  of  Syria 
and  Pal,  when  vegetation  perishes,  ami  his  return  to 
life  the  rainy  season  when  the  parched  earth  is 
revivified  and  is  covered  with  luxuriant  vegetation, 
or  his  death  symbolizes  the  cold,  rough  winter, 
the  boar  of  the  myth,  and  his  return  the  verdant 
spring. 

Considering  the  disgraceful  and  licentious  rites 
with  which  the  cult  was  celebrated,  it  is  no  wonder 
that  Ezekiel  should  have  taken  the  vision  of  the 
women  weeping  for  Tammuz  in  the  temple  as  OIK;  of 
the  greatest  abominations  that  could  defile  the  Holy 
House.  See  ADOMS. 

(2)  The  fourth  month  of  the  Jewish  year,  cor- 
responding to  July.  The  name  is  derived  from  that 
of  a  Syrian  god,  identified  with  Adonis  (Ezk  8  14). 
See  above,  and  CALENDAR.  H.  PORTER 

TANACH,  tfi'nak  Oj:?P,  lofnakh,  tJ^P  , 
tcf&nakh}.  See  TAANACH. 


Nebuchadnezzar  under   (he  governorship   of   Ged- 
aliah  (2   K  25  2:5;    Jer  40  8). 

TANIS,  ta'nis   iTdvis,    Tani*  [Jth   1   10  ]).     See 

ZOAX. 

TANNER,  tan'er  ((3i)p<r€vs,  burwiiH,  from  Pvpo-a, 
l>iirxti,  "a  hide"):  The  onlv  references  to  a  tanner  are 
in  Acts  9  4.'};  10  (>.:52.  "  The  Jews  looked  upon 
tanning  as  an  undesirable  occupation  and  well  they 


TANHUMETH,    tan-hu'meth 
meth):     One  of    those  who    were 


(ron:n  ,    tmihi- 
left    in  Judah  by 


Dipping  Skins  in   Vats  of  Sumach. 

might,  for  at  best  it  was  accompanied  with  un- 
pleasant odors  and  unattractive  sights,  if  not  even 
ceremonially  unclean.  We  can  imagine  that  Simon 
the  tanner  found  among  the  disciples  of  Jesus  a 
fellowship  which  had  been  denied  him  before. 
Peter  made  the  way  still  easier  for  Simon  by  choos- 
ing his  house  as  his  abode  while  staying  in  Joppa. 
Simon's  house  was  bv  tin;  seashores  as  is  true  of  the 
tanneries  along  the  Syrian  coast  today,  so  that  the 
foul-smelling  liquors  from  the  vats  can  be  drawn 
off  with  the  least  nuisance,  and  so  that  the  salt 
water  may  be  easily  accessible  for  washing  the  skins 
dining  the  tanning  process.  These;  tanneries  are 
very  unpretentious  affairs,  usually  consisting  of  erne 
e>r  two  small  rooms  and  a  courtyard.  Within  are 
the  vats  made-  e-ither  of  stone:  masonrv,  plastered 
within  and  without,  or  cut  out  e>f  the  solid  rock. 
The  sheep  or  goat  skins  are  smeared  on  the  hVsh 
side  with  a  paste  e>f  slaked  lime-  and  then  folded  up 
and  allowe-d  to  stand  until  the  hair  loosens.  The 
hair  and  fleshy  matter  are  ivnioved,  the  skins  are 
plumped  in  lime,  bated  in  a  cemcoctiem  first  of  elog 
dung  and  afterward  in  one  of  fermenting  bran,  in 
much  the-  same  way  as  in  a  moelern  tannery.  The' 

U—  y 
**> 

summak),  which  is  the  commem  tanning  material 
in  Syria  and  Pal.  After  drying,  the  leather  is 
blackened  em  erne:  side;  by  rubbing  em  a  solutiem 
made-  by  boiling  vinegar  with  e>ld  nails  e>r  pieces  of 
e-opper,  and  the1  skin  is  finally  give>n  a  elre>ssing  e>f 
olive'  oil.  In  the  more  modern  tanneries  rA'f/ra.s  is 
being  importeel  fe>r  the  currying  pmcesse's.  For 
dyeing  the1  ranis'  skins  reel  (Ex  25  IT)  they  rub  on  a 
solution  e>f  kermes  (similar  te>  coe-hineal;  see:  DYE- 
IXC),  dry,  oil,  and  polish  with  a  smooth  stone. 

Pine  bark  is  sometimes  use'd  for  tanning  in  Leba- 
non. Ae'cording  to  Wilkinson  (Ancient.  Egypt,  II, 
1X6),  the  Arabs  use  the  juice  e>f  a  desert  plant  for 
dehairing  and  tanning  skins.  The:  skins  for  pouches 
are  either  tawed,  i.e.  tanned  with  a  mineral  salt  like' 
alum,  e>r  treat  eel  like  parchment  (see  PARCHMENT). 
About  Ilebrem  oak  branches,  chopped  into  small 
chips,  are:  use'd  fe>r  tanning  the  leather  bottle's  or 
water  skins.  In  this  case  the  hair  is  not  removed. 
The  tanning  is  accomplished,  after  removing  the 
fleshy  matter,  by  filling  the  skin  with  oak  chips  ami 
water,  tying  up  all  openings  in  the  skins,  and  allow- 
ing them  to  lie  in  the  open  on  their  "backs,"  with 
"legs"  upright,  for  weeks.  The  field  near  Hebron 


12909 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tamarisk 
Taralah 


where  they  arrange  (he  bulging  skins  in  orderly 
rows  during  the  tanning  process  presents  ;i  weird 
sight.  These  tin;  the  hollies  referred  to  in  \Y 
(RV  "skins")  (Josh  9  4.13;  Hos  7  5;  Mt  9  17; 
Mk  2  22;  Lk  5  37). 

Leather  was  probably  used  more  extensively  than 
any  records  show.  We  know  that  the  Egyptians 
used  leather  for  ornamental  work.  They  under- 
stood the  art  of  making  stamped  leather.  The 
sculptures  give  us  an  idea  of  the  methods  used  for 
making  the  leather  into  sandals,  trimmings  for 
chariots,  coverings  of  chairs,  decorations  for  harps, 
sarcophagi,  etc.  There  are  two  Bib.  references  to 
leather,  where  leathern  girdles  arc  mentioned  (2  K 
1  S;  Mt  3  4).  See  also  CHAFTS,  II,  17. 

JAMIOS  A.    PATCH 


N.\V.  of  the ^territory  of  .lud.-ih. 
gested  identification  with  'Arlfif, 
S.Iv  of  Zorali.  (!.  A.  Smith  place 
\\franj,  possibly  identifying  it  with  Tuffnk,  fully 
4  miles  W.  of  Hebron.  This  position,  however,  is 
not  in  Hie  Shephelah.  The  place  probably  repre- 
sents "Beth-tappuah"  of  Josh  15  f>3.  No  quite 
satisfactory  identification  has  yet  been  suggested. 
(3)  A  place  on  the  border  between  Ephrairn  and 
Manassch  (Josh  16  8).  "The  land  of  Tappuuh," 
i.e.  the  land  adjoining  the  town,  belonged  to  Man.-is- 
seli,  but  the  town  itself  belonged  toEphraim  (17  8). 
En-tappuah  was  probably  a  neighboring  spring. 
Tappuuh  was  to  the  S.  of  Michmethath,  and  the 
border  ran  from  here  westward  to  the  brook  Kanah. 
Some  would  place  it  at  Kfiirhct  \\lilf,  about  1  1  miles 


DRESSING  HIDES  IN   A    SYRIAN   TAXXKKY. 


TAPESTRY,  tap'cs-tri  (D^a^tt ,  marbhaddlm, 
from  "5^ ,  rabhadh,  "to  spread") :  "Carpets  of 
tapestry"  are  mentioned  in  Prov  7  1(1;  31  22. 
We  have  no  means  of  knowing  just  what  form  of 
weaving  is  here  referred  to.  See  WEAVING. 

TAPHATH,  ta'fath  (HEE ,  taphath):  Daughter 
of  Solomon  and  wife  of  Ben-abinadab  (1  K  4  11). 

TAPHON,  to/fan.     See  TKPHON. 

TAPPUAH,  tap'u-a,  ta-pu'a  (ITIER,  tappuah, 
"apple"): 

(1)  A  royal  city  of  the  Canaanites,  the  king  of 
which  was  slain  by  Joshua   (12   17).     It  is  named 
between  Beth-el  and  Hepher,  and  may  possibly  be 
identical  with  the  city  named  in  Jos"h  16  8;    see 
(3)  below.     There   is   nothing    to    guide    us    to    a 
decision. 

(2)  (Omitted  by  LXX.)     A  city  in  the  Shephelah 
of  Judah  (Josh  15  34).     It  is  named  between  En- 
gannim  and  Enam  in  a  group  of  cities  that  lay  in  the 


N.  E.  ofNablus.  More  probably  it  should  be  sought 
to  the  S.W.  of  the  plain  of  Makhneh  (Michmethath). 
It  may  be  identical  with  Tephon,  which,  along  with 
Timnath,  Pharathon,  and  other  cities,  Bacchides 
fortified  "with  high  walls  and  gates  and  bars" 
(1  Mace  9  ;">()).  No  identification  is  possible. 

W.   EWIXG 

TAPPUAH  (05^,  l<ti)pnah;  B,  ©airoxis,  Thapoiis, 
A,  0a<j><|)ov,  Thaphphoti,  Luc.,  &eQpo\>9,  I'/icl/in>uth): 
A  "son"  of  Hebron  (1  Ch  2  43). 


tar'a     (Nu  33  27  f     AY).     See 


TARAH,    ta'ra, 
TBRAH. 


TARALAH,  tar'a-lii  (Hbxin,  tar'tilah;  B, 
0ap€T)\a,  Tharcela,  A,  OapaXd,  Tharala) :  A  town  in 
the  territory  of  Benjamin  named  between  Irpeel 
and  Zelah  (Josh  18  27).  On»m  (s.v.  "Therama") 
simply  says  it  was  in  the  tribe  of  Benjamin.  In 
the  times  of  Eusebius  and  Jerome,  therefore,  the 
site  was  already  lost,  and  lias  not  since  been  re- 
covered. 


Tarea 
Targum 


Till-:  IXTERNAT10NAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2910 


TAREA,  ta're--a,  ta-re'a  (>"^P ,  taarc"\  a 
copyist's  mistake  [1  Ch  8  3;")]  for  SHHI? ,  inhiin'"\ 
"the  shrewd  one,"  in  1  Ch  9  41;  H,  Qtpe'e,  T/icrce, 
A,  0ap€£,  Tlxircc,  Luc.,  Qapda,  Tlxirda;  in  1  Ch 
9  11,  15,  ©apdx,  Tlxinicfi,  A,  0apd,  Thard,  Luc., 
Oapda,  Tlxm'ui;  see  TAIIHKA):  A  descendant  of 
Saul  mentioned  in  a  genealogy  of  Benjamin  (1  Ch 
9  41). 

TARES,  tarz  (trivia,  zizdnia  [Mf  13  2.~>  ff], 
in  "darnel"):  Zizanlu  is  equivalent  to  Arab. 
zuwdn,  the  name  given  In  several  variet  ies  of  darnel 
of  which  Lolinin  tcinulrntinn,  tlie  "bearded  darnel," 


Bearded  Darnel    (Lolium  tcmulentum). 


is  the  one  most  resembling  wheat,  and  has  been 
supposed  to  be  degenerated  wheat.  On  the 
near  approach  of  harvest  it  is  carefully  weeded  out 
from  among  the  wheat  by  (he  women  and  children. 
Zmrdn  is  commonly  used  as  chickens'  food;  it  is 
not  poisonous  to  human  beings  unless  infected 
with  the  mold  ergot . 

TARGET,  Uir'get.     See  MARK. 

TARGUM,  tar'gum  (E^"".!?  ,  (<ir</ain): 

1.  Meaning  and  Etymology  of  the  Term 

2.  Origin  of  the  Targums 

3.  Language  of  the  Targums 

4.  Mode  in  Which  the  Targums  Wen;  Given 

5.  Date  of  the  Targums 

G.  Characteristics  of  the  Different  Targums 

(1)  Onkelos — the  Man 
Characteristics  of  His  Targum 

(2)  Jonathan  ben  Uzziel  — the  Mail 
Characteristics  of  His  Targum— Earlier  Prophets; 
Later  Prophets 

(3)  Hagiographa:    Psalms,  Job  and  Proverbs 
(a)    The   .\{<';,h,llotk 

(ft)    Chronicles 

(4)  The  Non-official  Targums — Jonathan  ben  Uzzlel 
and  the  Pentateuch 

7.    Use  of  the  Targums 
LITERATURE 

The    Targums    were    explanations    of    the    Heb 

Scriptures  in  Chaldaic  (Western  Aram.)  for  the 
benefit  of  those  Jews  who  had  partially  or  com- 
pletely ceased  to  understand  the  sacred  tongue. 


2.  Origin 
of  the 
Targums 


By  C.esenius  the  word  m''thurgam,  which  occurs  in 
Ezr  4  7,  is  interpreted  as  derived  from  rdyham,  "to 

pile  up  stones,"  "to  throw,"  hence  "to 
1.  Meaning  stone,"  and  then  "to  translate,"  though 
and  Ety-  no  example  is  given.  Jastrow  derives 
mology  of  it  from  the  Assyr  r-g-m,  "to  speak 
the  Term  aloud,"  an  etymology  which  suits  the 

origin  of  the  Tgs.  It  is  unfortunate 
that  he  gives  no  reference  to  any  Assyr  document. 

The  word  tunjamnnn  is  found,  e.g.,  in  the  Am  Tab 
(Berlin  ed,  21,  1.  '2  it,  Knudtzon,  154),  with  the  meaning 
"interpreter."  It-  may.  none  the  less,  be  of  Aram,  origin. 
See  Mnss-Arnolt,  Conrixe  Diet.  Axxyr  Luinjaiu.i'',  ll'.ilf, 
and  the  references  there  given. 

The  word  is  used  as  the  Aram,  interpretation  of 
shi(/(/dy<~»i.  (Ps  7  Ij,  a  term  the  precise  force  of  which 
is  yet  unfixed.  From  this  rdytxun  comes  meturghe- 
indn,  "an  interpreter,"  and  our  modern  "dragoman." 
Whatever  the  original  meaning  of  the  root,  the 
word  came  to  mean  "to  translate,"  "to  explain." 
At  the  time  when  Nebuchadnezzar  carried  the 
inhabitants  of  Jeru.s  and  Judah  captive  to  the 
banks  of  the  Tigris  and  the  Euphrates, 
the  language;  of  everyday  life;  in  Assyria 
and  Babylonia  had  ceased  to  be  that 
which  has  come  down  to  us  in  the 
cuneiform  inscriptions,  and  had  become 
Aram.,  the  limjun  fnn/cd  of  Southwestern  Asia. 
It  was  the  language  of  diplomacy,  of  business  and 
of  social  intercourse,  and  had  long  been  so.  Dwell- 
ing in  the  midst,  of  those  who  used  Aram,  alone,  the 
Jews  soon  adopted  it  for  every  occasion  save 
worship.  In  the  family  they  might,  retain  their 
mother  tongue  for  a  time,  but  this  would  yield  at 
length  to  continuous  pressure  from  without.  In  Pal 
a  similar  process  had  been  going  on  in  the  absence 
of  the  captives.  Intruders  from  various  neighbor- 
ing peoples  had  pressed  in  to  occupy  the  blanks  left 
by  the  removal  of  the  Jewish  captives  to  Babylon. 
Although  it  is  not  recorded,  it  is  not  impossible  that 
following  the  example  of  the  Assyrians,  Nebuchad- 
nezzar may  have;  sent  into  Judaea  compulsory  colo- 
nists from  other  parts  of  his  empire.  The  language 
common  to  all  these,  in  addition  _1o  their  native 
dialect,  was  Aramaic.  The  Jewish  inhabitants  that 
had  been  left  in  the  land  would,  like  their  rela- 
tives in  Babylonia,  have  become  accustomed  to  the 
use  of  Aram.,  to  the  exclusion,  more  or  less  com- 
plete, of  Hebrew.  Another  process  had  begun  among 
the  captives.  Away  from  the  site  of  their  destroyed 
temple,  the  exiles  did  not,  like  those  in  t'pper 
Egypt,  erect  another  temple  in  which  to  offer  sacri- 
fices. Their  worship  began  to  consist  in  the  study 
of  the  Law  in  common,  in  chanting  of  the  Psalms 
and  united  prayers.  This  study  of  the  Law  implied 
that  it  should  be  understood.  Though  some  form 
of  synagogue  worship  was  known  in  the  times  pre- 
ceding the  captivity  under  the  direction  probably 
of  the  prophets  (2'K  4  23),  it  must  have  become 
weak  and  ineffective.  With  the  arrival  of  Ezra 
there  was  a  revival  of  the  study  of  the  Law,  and 
with  that  the  necessity  for  the  interpretation  of  it 
in  language  which  the  people  could  understand. 

From  the  facts  above  narrated,  this  language  was 
of  necessity  Aramaic.  There  were,  however,  forces 
at  work  to  modify  the  language.  A 
3.  Lan-  tr  is  liable  to  be  assimilated  so  far,  to 
guage  of  the  t  he  language  from  which  it  is  made. 
Targums  Thus  there  is  a  difference,  subtle  but 
observable,  between  the  Eng.  of  our 
AV  of  the  Bible  and  that  of  Shakespeare,  Bacon,  or 
even  Hooker.  Or,  to  take  an  example  more  cognat  e, 
if  less  accessible  to  the  general  reader,  the  difference 
may  be  seen  if  one  compares  the  Svr  of  the  NT  Pesh 
with  that  of  the  Pesh  of  the  OT.  The  Aram,  of  the 
Tgs  is  Western  Aram.,  but  it  is  Western  Aram, 
tinctured  with  Hebrew.  The  fact  that  the  returned 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


captives  originally  had  spoken  Ileb  would  doubt  - 
less  have  its  effect  on  their  Aramaic,  Germ; 
in  Jewish  lips  becomes  Yiddish.  One  very  marked 
feature  is  the;  presence  of  yath,  (he  sign  of  the  accusa- 
tive translating  (he  Heb  'ctli,  whereas  in  ordinary 
Aram.,  Eastern  and  Western,  this  is  unused,  except, 
as  supporting  (he  oblique  case;  of  pronouns.  Fur- 
ther, the  intensive  construction  of  infinitive  with 
finite  sense,  so  frequent  in  Ileb,  t  hough  lit  t  le  used  in 
ordinary  Aram.,  appears  in  the;  Tgs  wherever  it 
occurs  in  the  Ileb  (ext.  As  a  negative  character- 
istic (here  is  to  be  noted  the  comparative  rarity 
with  which  the  emphatic  repetition  of  the  personal 
pronoun,  so  frequent  in  ordinary  Aram.,  occurs  in 
(he  Targumic. 

The  account,  given  in  Neh  (8  8)  of  the  reading  of 
the  Law  tot  he  people  not  only  mentions  1  hat  Ezra's 
helpers  read  "distinctly"  (rnephdrdsh} , 
4.  Mode  in  but  "gave  the  sense"  (.so///,  tick/id)  "and 
Which  the  caused  (hem  to  understand  (he  read- 
Targums  ing,"  AV  (wayyabhmuba-miJfra").  This 
Were  Given  threefold  process  implies  more  than 
merely  distinct  enunciation.  If  this 
passage  is  compared  with  Ezr  4  IS  it  would  seem 
that  in' [tliuruxk  ought  to  mean  "interpreted."  The 
most  natural  explanation  is  (hat  alongside  of  (he 
readers  of  the  Law  (hen;  were  interpreters,  •tu'liir- 
<///•  n/innni,  who  repeated  in  Aram,  what  had  been 
read  in  Ileb.  What  interval  separated  this  public 
reading  of  the  Law  from  the  reading  of  (lie  Law  as 
a  portion  of  synagogue  worship  we  have;  710  means 
of  knowing.  The  probability  is  (hat  in  no  long  lime 
(he  practice  of  reading  the  Law  with  an  Aram, 
interpretation  was  common  in  allJewish  synagogues. 
Elaborate  rules  are  laid  down  in  (he  Talm  for  (his 
interpretation;  how  far  these  were  (hose  actually 
used  we  cannot  be  absolutely  certain.  They  at 
least  represent  the  ideal  to  which  after-generations 
imagined  (he  originators  of  the  practice  aspired. 
The  Law  was  read  by  the  reader  verse  by  verse,  and 
each  verse  was  followed  by  a  recitation  by  the 
meturghemdn  of  the  Aram,  version.  Three  verses 
of  (he  prophetic  books  were  read  before  (he  Aram. 
was  recited.  The  Tahnudists  were;  particular 
that  the  reader  should  keep  his  eye  on  (he  roll  from 
which  he  read,  and  that  the  ni''(ur<//t''-»tdn,  should 
always  recite  his  version  without  looking  at  any 
writing,  so  that  a  distinction  should  be  kept,  between 
the  sacred  word  and  (he  version.  At  first  (he  Tg 
was  not  committed  to  writing,  but  was  handed 
down  by  tradition  from  meturgheman  to  in' tunjlr'ntdn. 
That  of  the  Law  became,  however,  as  stereotyped 
as  if  it  had  been  written.  So  (o  some  ex(ent  was 
it  wi(h  the  Prophets  and  also  (he  Psalms.  The 
Tgs  of  (he  rest  of  (he  K''tlnil>}nm  seem  to  have 
been  written  from  the  beginning  and  read  in  pri- 
vate. 

We  have  assumed  that  the  action  of  Ezra  nar- 
rated in  Neh  8  8  implied  not  only  the  reading  of 
the  Law,  but  also  the  interpretation  of 
5.  Date          its  language — its  tr  in  fact  from  Ileb 
of  the  to  Aram.,  and  that,  fur! her,  (his  prac- 

Targums  (ice  was  ere  long  followed  in  all  the 
synagogues  in  Judaea.  This  view  is 
maintained  by  Friedmann  (Onkclos  u.  AkyldN,  1SOO) 
and  was  (hat  assumed  to  be  correct  by  the  Talm. 
Dr.  Dalrnan  assures  his  readers  that  this  is  a  mis- 
take, but  without  assigning  any  reasons  for  his 
assertion.  Dr.  Dalman  is  a  very  great  authority, 
but  authority  is  not  science,  so  we  venture  to 
maintain  the  older  opinion.  The  fact  is  undeniable 
that,  during  the  Pers  domination  all  over  South- 
western Asia,  Aram,  was  the  lingua  franca,  so  much 
so  that  we  see  by  the  Assouan  and  Elephantine 
papyri  the  Jewish  garrison  at  Assouan  in  Egypt 
wrote  to  (heir  co-religionists  in  Judaea,  and  to  the 
Pers  governors,  in  Aramaic.  Moreover,  there  is  no 


Tarea 
Targum 


trace  (hat.  they  used  any  other  tongue  f:>r  marriage 
contracts  or  deeds  of  sale. 

Wo  may  assume  that  in  Judaea  t  he  language  commonly 
used  in  the  ,r>th  cent.  BC  was  Aramaic.  We  may  neglect 
then  the  position  of  Mr.  Stenning  (Km-  Hnl  [llth  ed] 
-\.\VI,  4  IS/*)  Unit  "probably  as  earlv  as  the  L'd  cent' 
Be;  the  people  had  adopted  Aramaic."  By  that  time 
Aram,  was  giving  place  to  (ireek.  His  reason  for  rejecting 
the  position  above  maintained  is  that  the  dales  assigned 
by  criticism  to  certain  prophetic  writings  conflict  with 
it — a  mode  of  reasoning  that  seems  to  derive  facts  from 
theories,  not  theories  from  facts. 

The  fact  that  the  necessity  for  tr  into  Aram, 
existed  in  the  Pers  period  implies  the  existence  of 
(he  melurgheman  and  (he  t<if(//<ttt.  It  is  more 
difficult  to  know  when  these  Tgs  wen;  committed 
to  writing.  It  is  probable  that,  (he  same  movement, 
which  led  Jehiidah  ha-Xasl'  to  commit  to  writing 
the  decisions  of  the  rabbis  which  form  the  Mish, 
would  lead  to  writing  down  (he  Tgs—  that  is  to  say 
late  in  the  2d  cent,  of  our  era.  Aram,  was  dis- 
appearing in  Pal  and  the;  traditional  renderings 
would  be  liable  to  be  forgotten.  Talmudic  stories 
as  to  dales  at  which  the  various  Tgs  were  written 
down  are  absolutely  valueless. 

The  Tgs  that  require  most  to  be  considered  are 
the  official  Tgs,  those  (hat  are  given  in  the  rabbinic 
Bibles  in  columns  parallel  with  the 
6.  Char-  columns  of  Hebrew.  In  addition,  (here 
acteristics  is  for  the  Law  the  Tun/inn  Y'nln/inlttil, 
of  the  another  recension  of  which  is  called 

Different  Turgnm  Yd/tdtlidn.  /><  n  Uzziel.  The 
Targums  Book  of  Est  has  two  Tgs.  Besides 
these,  Tgs  of  doubtful  value  have  been 
written  by  private  individuals.  Certain  books 
have  no  official  Tgs:  Dnl,  E/r,  Neh  and  Ch.  The 
reason  for  this  is  supposed  to  be  that  in  both  Dnl 
and  Ezr  there  are  port  ions  writ  ( en  in  A  ramaic.  Neh 
and  Ch  were  regarded  as  forming  one  book  with 
Ezr.  A  late  Tg  on  Ch  has  been  found  and  published 
separately.  Some  of  the  apocryphal  additions  to 
Est  appear  in  a  late  Tg  to  that  book.  The  official 
Tgs  of  (he  Law  and  (he  Prophe(s  approach  more 
nearly  the  character  of  (rs,  (hough  even  in  (hem 
verses  are  at  times  explained  rather  than  tr'1.  The 
others  are  paraphrastic  to  a  greater  or  less  degree. 

(1)  Onkdos. — This  is  the  name  given  to  the 
official  Tg  of  the  Pent.  The  legend  is  (hat  it  was 
written  by  one  Onkelos,  a  proselyte  son  of  Kalony- 
mus  or  Kaloniktis,  sister's  son  of  Titus,  lie  was 
associated  with  the  second  Gamaliel  and  is  repre- 
sented as  being  even  more  minutely  punctilious  in 
his  piety  than  his  friend.  The  legend  goes  on  (o  say 
that,  when  he  became  a  proselyte,  his  uncle  sent 
company  after  company  of  soldiers  to  arrest  him, 
but  he  converted  (hem,  one  after  another.  It  is 
at  the  same  time  extremely  doubtful  \\hether  there 
ever  was  such  a  person,  a  view  (hat  is  confirmed 
by  the  fact  that  legends  almost,  ident  ical  are  related 
of  Aquila,  the  translator  of  the  Ileb  Scriptures 
into  Greek.  The  names  arc;  similar,  and  it  may  be 
are  identical,  ^liile  there;  may  have  been  a  per- 
son so  named,  the  admission  of  this  does  not  imply 
that  he  had  any  connection  with  the  Tg  of  the  Pent 
named  after  him.  Another  explanation  is  that  as 
the  Gr  version  of  Aquila  was  much  praised  by  the 
Jews  for  its  fastidious  accuracy,  and  this  Tg  of 
the  Law  was  credited  with  equally  careful  accuracy, 
so  all  that  is  meant  is  that  it  was  regarded  as  a 
version  which  as  accurately  represented  in  Aram,  (he 
Heb  of  the  Law  as  did  Aquila's  Greek.  The  proba- 
bility is  that  whoever  i(  was  who  (ommitted  the  Tg 
to  writing  did  little  or  no  actual  (ransla(ing.  I( 
might  not  be  (he  work  of  one  unassisted  author; 
the  reference  (o  the  guidance  Onkelos  is  alleged  to 
lave  received  from  the  rabbis  Eliezer  and  Joshua 
suggests  (his.  Owing  to  the  fact  (hat  (he  Law  was 
read  through  in  the  course  of  a  year  in  Bab  (once  in 


Targum 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2912 


three  years  in  Pal)  and  every  portion  interpreted 
verse  by  verse  in  Aram.,  as  it  was  read,  the  very  words 
of  the  traditional  rendering  would  he  remembered. 
This  gives  the  language  of  the  Tg  an  antique  flavor 
which  may  be  seen  when  it  is  compared  with  that  of 
the  Palestinian  lectionary  discovered  by  Mrs.  Gibson 
and  Mrs.  Lewis.  Esp.  is  this  observed  when  the 
renderings  of  1  ho  same  passage  are  put  in  comparison. 
Both  in  vocabulary  and  grammar  there  is  a  difference; 
thus  mar  occurs  for  ,s//a//cf,  and  ytitfi  as  the  sign  of 
the  accusative  has  disappeared  in  the  lectionary. 
An  analogy  may  be  seen  in  the  antique  flavor  of  the 
language  of  our  Eng.  Bible,  even  in  RV.  If  any 
credence  were  to  be  given  to  1  lie  traditional  account 
of  the  alleged  authors,  the  date  of  this  Tg  would  be 
the  end  of  the  1st  cent.  AD.  But  we  have  seen  that 
it  has  been  named  Aquila  and  that  the  title  means 
"as  accurate  as  Aquila.''  He,  however,  lived  in  the 
beginning  of  the2d  cent.  His  (!r  version  must  have 
already  gained  a  reputation  before  the  Aram.  Tg 
appeared.  We  cannot  therefore  date  the  actual 
committing  of  this  Tg  to  writing  earlier  than  late  in 
the  2d  cent.,  not  improbably,  as  suggested  above, 
contemporary  with  the  writing  down  of  the  Mish 
by  Jehndah  ha-Nasi'. 

The  characteristics  of  this  Tg  are  in  general  close 
adherence  t><>  the  original,  sometimes  even  to  the  extent 
of  doing  violence  to  the  genius  of  the  language  into  which 
it  has  been  t-r1.  One  prominent  example  of  this  is  the 
presence  of  i/nth  as  the  sign  of  the  accusatives  and  there 
is  also  the  intensive  construction  of  infinitive  with  flnito 
tense.  There  is  a  tendency  to  insert  something  be- 
tween Clod  and  ITis  worshipper,  as  "mirn'ra"  Jeh"  instead 
of  simply  "Jeli."  Where  anthropomorphisms  occur, 
an  exact  tr  is  not  attempted,  but  the  sense  is  represented 
in  an  abstract,  way,  as  in  Gen  11  5,  where  instead  of 
"The  Lord  [YIIWH"]  came  down"  there  is  "The  Lord 
[.'/i.'/'i'l  was  revealed."  At  the  same  time  there  is  not  a 
total  avoidance  of  paraphrase.  In  (Jen  4  7  the  Tg 
renders,  "  If  thou  doest  thy  work  well,  is  it  not  remitted 
unto  thee?  if  thou  doest  not  thy  work  well,  thy  sin  is 
reserved  unto  the  day  of  judgment  when  it  will  bo 
required  of  thee  if  thou  do  not  repent,  but  if  thou  repent 
it  shall  be  remitted  to  thee."  It  will  be  observed  that 
the  last  clause  of  the  ITeb  is  omitted.  So  in  Gen  3  22, 
instead  of  "Man  has  become  as  one  of  us,"  Onkelos 
writes  "Man  has  become  alone  in  the  world  by  himself 
to  know  good  and  evil."  A  more  singular  instance 
occurs  in  Gen  27  13,  where  Rebekah  answers  Jacob, 
"  Upon  me  be  thy  curse,  my  son";  in  the  Tg  it  is,  "  Unto 
me  it,  hath  been  said  in  prophecy,  there,  shall  be  no  curse 
upon  thee  my  son."  Sometimes  then?  is  a  mere  explan- 
atory expansion,  as  in  Kx  3  1.  where  instead  of  "the 
mount  of  Cod,"  Onkelos  has  "the  mountain  on  which 
the  glory  of  the  Lord' was  revealed."  In  the  mysterious 
passage,  Kx  4  24-2i>,  later  Jewish  usage  is  brought  in  to 
make  an  easy  sense:  "And  it  was  on  the  way  in  the  inn 
[house  of  res't]  that  the  angel  of  the  Lord  met  him  and 
sought  to  slay  him.  And  Xipporali  took  a  flint  knife  and 
cut  olf  the  foreskin  of  her  son  and  came  near  before!  him 
and  said  '  In  the  blood  of  this  circumcision  is  the  bride- 
groom given  back  to  us,'  and  when  therefore  he  had 
desisted  she  said,  'Had  it  not  been  for  the  blood  of  this 
circumcision  the  bridegroom  would  have  been  condemned 
to  die. '  "  Here  hitthtln  ("  bridegroom")  is  used  according 
to  later  custom  of  the  child  to  lie  circumcised.  Sometimes 
reasons  of  propriety  come  in,  as  when  the  sin  of  Onaii 
is  described  "corrupting  his  way  on  the  earth."  It  is, 
however,  in  the  poetical  passages  that  the  writer  gives 
loose  rein  to  paraphrase.  As  an  example  the  blessing 
of  Judah  in  Jacob's  blessing  of  his  sons  may  be  given: 
"  Judah,  thou  art  praise  and  not  shame;  thee  thy  brethren 
shall  praise.  Thy  hands  shall  be  strong  upon  thine 
enemies,  those  that  hate  thee  shall  be  scattered;  they 
shall  be  turned  back  before  thee;  the  sons  of  thy  father 
shall  come  before  thee  with  salutations.  [Thy]  rule  shall 
be  in  the  beginning,  and  in  the  end  the  kingdom  shall  bo 
increased  from  the  house  of  Judah,  because  from  the 
judgment  of  death,  my  son,  thy  soul  hast  thou  removed. 
He  shall  rest,  he  shall  abide  in  strength,  as  a  lion  and  as 
a  lioness  there  is  nothing  may  trouble  him.  The  ruler 
shall  not  depart  from  the  house  of  Judah  nor  the  scribe 
from  his  son's  sons  for  ever  till  the  Messiah  come  whoso 
is  the  kingdom  and  whom  the  heatheii  shall  obey.  Israel 
shall  trade  in  his  cities,  the  people  shall  build  his  temple, 
the  saints  shall  be  going  about  to  him  and  shall  be  doers 
of  the  Law  through  his  instruction.  His  raiment  shall 
bo  goodly  crimson;  his  clothing  covering  him,  of  wool 
dyed  bright  with  colours.  His  mountains  shall  be  red 
with  his  vineyards,  his  hills  shall  flow  down  with  wine, 
and  his  valleys  shall  bo  wliito  with  corn  and  with  flocks 
of  sheep." 

Committed  to  writing  in  Pal,  the  Tg  of  Onkelos 


was  sent  to  Babylon  to  get  the  imprimatur  of  the 
famous  rabbis  residing  there.  There  are  said 
to  be  traces  in  the  language  of  a  revision  by  the 
Bab  teachers,  but  as  this  lies  in  the  prevalence  of 
certain  words  that  are  regarded  as  more  naturally 
belonging  to  Eastern  than  Western  Aram.,  it  is  too 
restrict edly  technical  to  be  discussed  here.  The 
result,  of  the  Bab  sanction  was  the  reception  of  this 
Tg  as  the  official  interpretation  of  the  books  of  the 
Law.  It  seems  probable  that  the  mistake  which 
led  to  its  being  attributed  to  Onkelos  was  made 
in  Babylon  where  Aquila's  Gr  version  was  not 
known  save  by  vague  reputation. 

(2)  The  Tg  of  JoixttJian  ben  Uzzicl  on  the  Proph- 
ets.— This  Jonathan,  to  whom  the  Tg  on  the 
Prophets  is  attributed,  is  declared  to  be  one  of  the 
most  distinguished  pupils  of  Hillel.  The  prophetic 
section  of  the  Bible  according  to  the  Jews  contains, 
besides  what  we  ordinarily  reckon  prophetic  books, 
also  all  the  earlier  historical  books  except  Ruth, 
which  is  placed  among  the  Hagiographa.  During 
the  persecution  of  the  Jews  by  Epiphanes,  when  the 
Law  was  forbidden  to  be  read  in  the  synagogue, 
portions  of  the  Prophets  wrere  read  instead.  There 
was  no  attempt  to  read  the  whole  of  the  Prophets 
thus,  but  very  considerable  portions  were  used 
in  worship.  This  necessitated  the  presence  of  the 
meturgheman.  If  one  might  believe  the  Talmudio 
traditions,  Jonathan's  Tg  was  committed  to  writing 
before  that  of  Onkelos.  Jonathan  is  regarded 
as  the  contemporary  of  the  first  Gamaliel,  whereas 
Onkelos  is  the  friend  of  Aklba,  the  contemporary  of 
Hadrian.  The  tradition  is  that  when  he  published 
his  Tg  of  the  Prophets,  all  Pal  was  shaken,  and  a 
voice  from  heaven  was  heard  demanding,  "Who  is 
this  who  revealeth  my  secrets  to  the  sons  of  men?" 
As  an  example  of  the  vagueness  of  Talmudic 
chronology,  it  may  be  mentioned  that  Jonathan  was 
said  to  have  made  his  Tg  under  the  guidance  of 
Haggai,  Zechariah  and  Malachi.  He  is  said  to 
have  desired  to  write  a  Tg  of  the  K'lhuhhlin,  but 
was  forbidden  by  a  voice  from  heaven.  The  Tg 
of  Job  was  said  to  have  been  already  written,  but 
was  buried  by  Gamaliel.  It  is  said  to  have  been 
exhumed  and  that  the  present  Tg  on  that  book  is 
from  Jonathan's  hand.  The  tomb  of  Jonathan  ben 
Uz/icl  is  shown  on  the  face  of  a  hill  to  the  N.  of 
Safcd,  Palestine. 

In  the  former  Prophets — the  historical  books — the 
style  does  not  differ  much  from  that  of  Onkelos.  Occa- 
sionally there  are  readings  followed  which  a'rc  not  in  the 
MT,  as  Josh  8  12,  where  the  Tg  has  "the  west  side  of 
Ai"  instead  of  as  in  the  MT.  "  the  west  side;  of  the  city." 
Sometimes  two  readings  are  combined,  as  in  8  10,  where 
the  MT  has  "all  the  people  which  were  in  the  city," 
the  Tg  adds  "in  Ai."  Again,  the  Tg  translates  proper 
names,  as,  in  Josh  7  5,  "Shebarim"  (sh'bharim)  is 
rendered  "till  they  were  scattered."  Such  are  the 
variations  to  be  seen  in  the  narrative  portion  of  the  Tg 
of  the  earlier  Prophets.  When,  however,  a  poetical 
piece  occurs,  the  writer  at  times  gives  rein  to  his  imagina- 
tion. Sometimes  one  verse  is  exceedingly  paraphrastic 
and  the  next  an  accurate  rendering  without  any  addi- 
tion. In  the  song  of  Deborah  (Jgs  5)  the  1st  verse 
has  only  a  little  of  paraphrase:  "Then  sang  praises 
Deborah  and  Barak  the  son  of  Abiiioam  on  account  of 
the  lifting  up  and  deliverance  which  had  been  wrought 
in  that  day,  saying  .  .  .  .  "  The  verse  which  follows  is 
very  paraphrastic;  instead  of  the  7  words  of  the  verse 
in  the  MT  the  Tg  has  55.  It  is  too  long  to  quote  in  full, 
but  it  begins,  "Because  the  house  of  Israel  rebelled 
against  His  Law,  the  Gentiles  came  up  upon  them  and 
disturbed  their  assemblies,  and  because  they  refused 
to  obey  the  Law,  their  enemies  prevailed  against  them 
and  drove  them  from  the  borders  of  the  land  of  Israel," 
and  so  on,  Sisera  and  all  his  host  being  introduced. 
Ver  3  reads  thus,  "Hear  O  kings  who  are  with  him, 
with  Sisera  for  war,  who  obey  the  officers  of  Jabin  the 
king  of  Canaan;  with  your  might  and  your  valour  ye 
shall  not  prevail  nor  go  up  against  Israel,  said  I  Deborah 
in  prophecy  before  the  Lord.  I  will  sing  praise  and 
bless  before  Jen  the  God  of  Israel. ' ' 

The  later  prophets  are  more  paraphrastic  as  a 
whole  than  the  earlier,  as  having  more  passages 


2913 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  .STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Targum 


with  poet ic  metaphors  in  (hem — a  fact  (hat  is  made 
plain  (o  anyone  by  tin;  greater  space  occupied  in 
the  rabbinic  Bibles  by  the  Tgs  of  the  Prophets.  A 
marked  example  of  this  tendency  to  amplify  is  to  be 
found  in  Jer  10  11:  "Thus  shall  ye  say  unto  them, 
The  gods  that  have  not  made  the  heavens  and  the 
earth,  these  shall  perish  from  the  earth,  and  from 
under  the  heavens."  As  this  verso  is  in  Aram,  it 
might  have  been  thought  that  it  would  have  been 
transferred  to  the  Tg  unchanged,  but  the  Targumist 
has  made  of  (he  10  words  of  (he  original  text  57. 
Sometimes  these  expansions  may  be  much  shorter 
than  the  above  example,  but  are  illuminative, 
showing  Hie  views  held  by  the  Jewish  teachers. 
In  Isa  29  1,  "Ilo  Ariel,  Ariel,  the  city  where  David 
encamped!"  the  Tg  has  "\Voe  to  the  altar,  the 
altar  which  David  built  in  the  city  in  which  he 
dwelt."  In  this  rendering  we  see  the  Jewish 
opinion  that  "Ariel,"  which  means  "lion  of  God," 
in  this  connection  stood  for  the  "altar"  which  David 
erected  in  Jems.  It  seems  unlikely  that  this  whole 
Tg  was  the  work  of  one  writer,  but  the  style  gives 
little  indication  of  difference.  The  paraphrase  of 
the  synagogal  haphtaroth  being  traditional,  the  style 
of  the  person  who  committed  it  to  writing  had  little 
scope.  The  language  represents  naturally  an  older 
stage  of  development  than  we  find  in  the  eon- 
temporary  Christian  lectionaries.  As  only  portions 
of  the  Prophets  were  used  in  synagogue  worship, 
only  those  portions  would  have  a  traditional  render- 
ing; but  these  fixed  the  style.  In  the  RV  of  the 
Apoc  the  70  verses  which  had  been  missing  from  2 
Esd  7  are  trd  in  the  style  adopted  by  the  trans- 
lators under  King  James.  It  is  impossible  to  fix 
(he  date  at  which  the  Tg  of  any  of  the  prophetic 
books  was  written  down.  It  is  probable  that  it 
was  little  if  at  all  after  that  of  Onkelos.  The  com- 
plet  ion  of  the  paraphrases  of  (ho  prophetic  writings, 
of  which  only  portions  were  used  in  the  synagogue, 
seems  to  imply  that  there  were  readers  of  the  Aram, 
for  whose  benefit  those  Tgs  were  made. 

(3)  The  Tgs  of  the  third  division  of  the  Heb 
sacred  writings,  the  K'tk&bhlm  (the  Hagiographa), 
are  ascribed  to_  Joseph  Caecus,  but  this  is  merely  a 
name.  There  is  no  official  Tg  of  any  of  the  Hagi- 
ographa, and  several  of  them,  Dnl,  Nehand  Ezr,  as 
above  no  ted ,  have  no  Tg  at  all.  Those  of  the  longer 
books  of  this  class,  Pss,  Prov  and  Job,  are  very 
much  closer  to  the  text  than  are  the  Tgs  of  the 
M''glulldth.  In  the  Pss,  the  paraphrase  is  explana- 
tory rather  than  simply  expansive.  Thus  in  Ps 
29  1,  "ye  sons  of  the  mighty"  is  rendered  "ye 
companies  of  angels,  ye  sons  of  the  mighty."  Ps  23 
is  further  from  _  the  text,  but  it  also  is  exegetic; 
instead  of  "Jeh  is  my  shepherd,  I  shall  not  want," 
the  Tg  reads,  "The  Lord  nourished  His  people  in  the 
wilderness  so  that  they  lacked  nothing."  So  the 
last  clause  of  the  last  verse  of  this  ps  is,  "I  shall 
indeed  dwell  in  the  house  of  the  holiness  of  the  Lord 
for  the  length  of  days."  Another  example  of 
exegesis  is  Ps  46  4,  in  which  the  "river  whose 
streams  make  glad  the  city  of  our  God"  is  explained 
as  "the  nations  as  rivers  making  glad  the  city  of 
Jeh."  Much  the  same  may  be  said  of  Job,  so 
examples  need  not  be  given. 

The  Tg  of  Prov  has  been  very  much  influenced  by 
the  Pcsh;  it  may  be  regarded  as  a  Jewish  recension 
of  it.  Those  of  the  five  M'ghilloth,  as  they  are 
called,  Song  of  Songs,  Ruth,  Lam,  Eccl,  and  Est, 
are  excessively  paraphrastic;.  If  one  compare  the 
space  occupied  by  the  text  of  Cant  and  Prov,  it  will 
be  found  that  the  former  occupies  about  one-sixth 
of  the  latter;  if  the  Tgs  of  the  two  books  are  com- 
pared in  Lagarde's  text,  the  Cant  is  two-thirds  of 
Prov.  So  Lam  occupies  in  the  MT  less  than  a 
quarter  the  space  which  Prov  occupies;  but  the  Tg 
of  Lam  is  two-fifths  the  size  of  the  Tg  of  Prov. 


Ruth  has  not  suffered  such  a  dilatation ;  in  the  text, 
it  is  a  fifth,  in  the  Tg  a  fourth,  the  si/.e  of  Prov. 
The  expansion  mainly  occurs  in  the  first  verse;  in 
which  ten  different  famines  are  described.  Eccl 
in  the  MT  uses  about  three-eighths  of  the  space 
occupied  by  Prov.  This  is  increased  to  five-sixths 
in  the  Tg.  There  are  two  Tgs  of  Est,  the  first 
about  five-sixths  the  size  of  Prov,  the  second, 
nearly  double.  The  text  is  under  one-half .  We  sub- 
join the  Tg  of  Lam  1  1  from  Mr.  Greenup's  tr: 
Jeremiah  the  prophet  and  high  priest  said:  "How 
is  it  decreed  against  Jems  and  against  her  people 
that  they  should  be  condemned  to  exile  and  that 
lamentation  should  be  made  for  them?  How? 
Just  as  Adam  and  Eve  were  condemned  who  were 
ejected  from  the  garden  of  Eden  and  over  whom  the 
Lord  of  the  universe  lamented.  How?  God  the 
judge  answers  and  speaks  thus:  'Because  of  the 
multitude  of  the  sins  which  were  in  the  midst  of  her, 
therefore  she  will  dwell  alone  as  the  man  in  whose 
flesh  is  the  plague  of  leprosy  dwells  alone!  And  the 
city  that  was  full  of  crowds  and  many  people  hath 
been  deserted  by  them  and  become  like  a  widow. 
And  she  that  was  exalted  among  the  peoples  and 
powerful  among  the  provinces,  to  whom  they  paid 
tribute,  hath  been  scattered  abroad  so  as  to  be  op- 
pressed and  to  give  tribute  to  them  after  this.'" 
This  gives  a  sufficient  example  of  the  extent  to  which 
expansion  can  go.  Ver  1  of  Est  in  the  first  Tg 
informs  us  that  the  cessation  of  the  work  of  building 
the  Temple  was  due  to  the  advice  of  Vashti,  and 
that  she  was  the  daughter  of  Evil-merodach,  the 
son  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  and  a  number  of  equally 
accurate  pieces  of  information.  Yet  more  extrava- 
gant is  the  2d  Tg;  it  begins  by  asserting  that  there 
are  ten  great  monarchs  of  whom  Aehhashverosh 
waa  the  Gth,  the  Gr  and  Rom  were;  the  7th  and  the 
8th,  Messiah  the  king  the  9th,  and  the  Almighty 
Himself  the  10th.  It  evidently  has  no  connect  ion 
with  the  first  Tg.  The  Tg  of  Ch,  although  late, 
is  modeled  on  the  Tgs  of  Jonathan  ben  Uzziel.  In 
cases  where  the  narrative  of  Ch  runs  parallel  with 
that  of  S  the  resemblance  is  very  great,  even  to 
verbal  identity  at  times.  The  differences  some- 
times are  worthy  of  note,  as  where;  in  1  Ch  21  2, 
instead  of  "Dan"  the  Tg  has  "Pameas"  (Paneas), 
which  affords  an  evidence  of  the  lateness  of  this 
Tg.  In  the  rabbinic  Bible,  Ch  appear,  as  do  Ezr, 
Neh  and  Dnl,  without  a  parallel  Tg. 

(4)  There  is  a  Tg  on  the  Pent  attributed  to  Jonathan 
ben  Uzziel  which  is  very  paraphrastic.  Fragments  of 
another  closely  related  Tg  have  been  preserved,  known 
as  the  Jems  Tg.  In  fact  the  two  may  really  be  regarded 
as  different  recensions  of  the  same  Tg.  It  is  supposed 
that  some  MS  was  denominated  simply  "the  targum  of 
J,"  which,  really  being  the  initial  representing  "Jerusa- 
lem," was  taken  as  representing  "Jonathan."  At  the 
end  of  each  of  the  books  of  the  Pent  it  is  stated  that  this 
Tg  is  the  "targum  Vrushalmi."  Of  the  two  the  Yeru- 
shalmi  is  the  longer.  Both  assert  that  five  signs  accom- 
panied Jacob  in  his  stay  in  Haran:  the  time;  was  short- 
ened; the  distance;  was  shortened;  the  four  stone's  fe>r  his 
pillow  became  one;  his  strength  was  increased  se>  that 
with  his  own  arm  he  move-el  the  stone  covering  the  well 
which  it  took  all  the  shepherds  to  move;  the  water 
gushed  from  the;  we'll  all  the  days  he;  dwelt  in  Haran. 
But  the  narrative  of  ben  Uzziel  is  expanded  to  nearly 
twice  the  length  in  the  Yerushalmi.  This  Tg  maybe  re- 
garded as  to  some  extent  semi-official. 

As  the  Tgs  appear  to  have  been  committed  to 
writing  after  the  MT  was  fixed,  textual  differences 

are  few  and  unimportant.  Kohn 
7.  Use  mentions  that  in  a  few  cases  Onkelos 

of  the  agrees  with  the  Sam  against  the  MT; 

Targums  they  are,  however,  few,  and  possibly 

may  be  explained  by  differences  of 
idiom,  though  from  the  slavish  way  in  which 
Onkelos  follows  the  Heb  text  this  is  improbable. 
The  Pal  Tg  agrees  with  the  Sam  and  the  VSS  in 
adding  "Let  us  go  into  the  field"  in  Gen  4  8.  The 
main  benefit  received  from  the  Tgs  is  (he  knowledge 


Tarpelites 
Tarsus 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2914 


(if  (he  views  of  the  .Jewish  rabbis  ;is  to  the  mean- 
ing of  certain  passages.  Thus  in  ('.en  49  10  there 
is  no  doubt,  in  the  mind  of  the  Targurnist  that 
"Sliiloh''  refers  to  the  Messiah.  Some  other  cases 
have  been  noted  above.  The  frequency  with  which 
Ihe  word  of  the  Lord  (mlin'ra  y'!/a)  is  used  in 
Onkelos  as  equivalent  to  Y  II  WH,  as  C.en^S  S, 
"They  heard  the  voice  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  God," 
mlin'ra  d/i  i/'  i/a  'Kldlilin,  requires  to  be  noted 
from  its  bearing  on  Christian  theology.  There  is 
a  peculiar  usage  in  (Jen  15  1:  Y  II  W  11  says 
to  Abraham,  "Fear  not,  Abrum,  my  word  [mlmera'] 
shall  help  thee."  Pharaoh  is  represented  as_using 
this  periplirasis:  "The  word  of  the  Lord  [nnni'r<V 
y  i/a\  be  for  your  help  when  1  send  away  you  and 
your  little  ones"  (Ex  10  10).  A  striking  use  _of 
this  phrase  is  to  be  found  in  Dt  33  27,  where  in- 
stead of  "Underneath  are  the  everlasting  arms,'' 
we  have  "By  His  word  the  world  was  made." 
This  is  at  once  seen  to  resemble  the  usage  of  Philo 
and  the  apostle;  John.  As  the  Tgs  had  not  been 
committed  to  writing  during  the  lifetime  of  either 
of  these  writers,  it  might  be  maintained  that  the 
Targumists  had  been  influenced  by  Philo.  This, 
however,  does  not,  follow  necessarily,  as  both  apostle 
and  philosopher  would  have  heard  the  Tg  of  the  Law 
recited  Sabbath  after  Sabbath  from  their  boyhood, 
and  the  phrase  mini  ra  y  i/u'  would  remain  in  their 
memory.  The  Tgs  of  the  pseudo-Jonathan  and 
(hat  of  .Terns  have  a  yet  more  frequent  use  of  the 
term.  Edersheim  has  counted  17i>  occurrences 
of  the  phrase  in  Onkelos  and  321  in  that  of  the; 
pseudo-Jonathan  and  in  the  fragments  of  (he 
Y'rilxtiul/nl  99.  This  is  made  the  more  striking  by 
the  fact  that  it  rarely  occurs  in  the  rest  of  Scripture. 
In  Am  1  2,  instead  of  "Jeh  ....  will  utter  his 
voice  from  Jerus"  we  have  "From  Jems  will  He 
lift,  up  His  word''  (im~>n''rl/t).  The  usual  equivalent 
for  the  prophet  's  formula  "the  word  of  the  Lord"  is 
pithqam  Y  IIWII.  An  example  of  the  usage 
before  us  may  be  found  in  Ps  56  4.10:  "In  the 
righteousness  of  the  judgment  of  (Jod  will  I  praise 
his  word"  (nn'in'rlli).  There  was  thus  a  preparation 
for  the  Christian  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  imbedded 
in  the  most  venerated  Tg,  that  of  the  Law. 

LITEKATTRE.  —  Tho  text  of  the  official  Tgs  is  to  he 
found  in  every  rabbinic  Bible.  Berliner  lias  published 
a  careful,  vocalized  edition  of  Onkelos.  The  Prophets 
and  the  Hagiographa  have  been  edited  by  Lagarde,  but 
unvoeali/,i'd.  For  the  language  Petermann's  grammar 
in  the  I'orla  Linr/unntm  Orientalium  is  useful.  Levy's 
C/itil'ltiixr/ir*  Wdrterbuch  is  very  good.  Jastrow's  Dirt. 
<>f  tin-  Tnrnit  mint,  is  invaluable.  Brcxtorf's  Lrfiron 
Talmudicum  supplies  information  not  easily  available 
elsewhere.  The  Tgs  on  the  Pent  have  been  tr<  by  Kther- 
idge.  There  is  an  extensive  lit.  on  this  subject,  in  (  h-r- 
nian  In  Kng.  the  different  Bible  Diets,  may  be  con- 
sulted. esp.  McClintOCk,  DH.  II  DH.  EH,  etc.  The  art.  in 
Km-  lirit.  is  worthy  of  study,  as  also  naturally  that  in 
the  Jew  Ear. 

.].  E.   IT.  THOMSON' 


TARPELITES,  tiir'pel-Its  ( 
[E/r  4  9]):  Various  theories  have  been  advanced 
as  to  the  identity  of  the  Tarpelites.  Rawlinson 
suggested  the  Tuplai,  which  name  appears  in  the 
inscriptions  as  equivalent  to  the  (Jr  Ti/3apijw)£, 
Ti-htircHo'i,  a  tribe;  on  the  coast  of  Pontus.  Hitzig 
located  them  in  Tripolis  in  Northern  Phoenicia. 
The  latest  theory  emends  the  text  to  i^lySt:  , 
tiph§erayd',  "tablet-writers"  (from  the  Assyr  dup 
su/r/0;  ef  Schrader,  COT,  on  Jer  51  27. 

TARSHISH,  (ar'shish  (t^TT^P,  ,  iarshish): 

(1)  Eponym  of  a  Benjamite  family  (1  Ch  7   10); 
B,    'Pa.fj.eff<rat,    Rhamessai,    A    and    Luc.,    Qapo-eis, 
Tharseis. 

(2)  One  of  the  "seven  princes"  Jit  the  court  of 
Alrisuerus   (Est,  1  14  AIT). 

(3)  The  Heb  name  of  a  precious  stone  (Ezk  10 
9m,    EV    "beryl";    Ex  28  20;    39  13;    Ezk  1  16; 


28   13;   Cant    5   14;    Dnl  10  tii.     See  STONKS,  PKK- 

CIOUS. 

TARSHISH,  NAVY  (SHIPS)  OF.  See  SHIPS 
AND  BOATS,  11,  1.  (.2). 

TARSUS,  tiir'sus  (Tapo-os,  7\/r.w.s,  ethnic,  Tapcrtvs, 

7\;/-.sc«,s) : 

1.  Situation 

2.  Foundation  Legends 

:5.   Tarsus  under  Oriental  Tower 

4.  Tarsus  under  (rreek  Sway 

f>.   Tarsus  in  the  Koman  Kmpire 

(i.   The  University 

7.  The  Tarsian  Constitution 

5.  Paul  of  Tarsus 
!(.    Later  History 
LITERATURE 

The  chief  city  of  Cilicia,  the  southeastern  portion 
of  Asia  Minor.  It  lay  on  both  banks  of  the  river 

Cydnus,  in  the  midst  of  a  fertile 
1.  Situation  alluvial  plain,  some  10  miles  from  the 

seacoast.  About  6  miles  below  the 
city  tlie  river  broadened  out  into  a  considerable 
lake  called  Rhegma  (Strabo  xiv.672),  which  afforded 
a  safe  anchorage  and  was  in  great  part  fringed  with 
quays  and  dockyards.  The  river  itself,  which 
flowed  southward  from  the  Taurus  Mountains  with 
a  clear  and  swift  stream,  was  navigable  to  light  craft, 
and  Cleopatra,  when  she  visi(ed  Antony  at  Tarsus 
in  3S  BC,  was  able  to  sail  in  her  richly  decorated 
barge  into  the  very  heart  of  the  city  (Pint.  Ant.  26). 
The;  silting-up  of  the  river's  mouth  seems  to  have 
resulted  in  frequent  floods,  against  which  the 
emperor  Justinian  (o27-6/)  AD)  attempted  to  pro- 
vide by  cutting  a  new  channel,  starting  a  short 
distance  N.  of  the  city,  to  divert  the  surplus  water 
into  a  watercourse;  which  lay  to  the  10.  of  Tarsus. 
Gradually,  however,  the  original  bed  was  allowed  to 
become  choked,  and  now  the  Cydnus  flows  wholly 
through  Justinian's  channel  and  passes  to  the  E.  of 
the  modern  town.  Two  miles  N.  of  Tarsus  the 
plain  gives  way  to  low,  undulating  hills,  which 
extend  to  (he  foothills  of  Taurus,  the  great  mountain 
chain  lying  some  30  miles  N.  of  the  city,  which 
divides  Cilicia  from  Lycaonia  and  Cappadocia. 
The  actual  frontier-line  seems  to  have  varied  at 
different,  periods,  but  the  natural  boundary  lies 
at  the  Cilician  Gates,  a  narrow  gorge  which  Tarsian 
enterprise  and  engineering  skill  had  widened  so  as  to 
make  it  a  wagon  road,  the  chief  highway  of  com- 
munication and  trade;  between  Cilicia  and  (he 
interior  of  Asia  Minor  and  OIK;  of  the  most  decisive 
factors  in  Anatolian  history.  Eastward  from  Tarsus 
ran  an  important  road  crossing  the  Sarus  at  Adana 
and  the  Pyramus  at  Mopsuestia;  there  it  divided, 
one  branch  running  southeastward  by  way  of  Issus 
to  Antioch  on  (he  Orontes,  while  another  turned 
slightly  northward  to  Castabala,  and  (hence  ran 
due  E.  (o  the  passage  of  the  Euphrates  at  Zeugma. 
Thus  the  fertility  of  its  soil,  the  safety  and  con- 
venience of  its  harbor  and  the  command  of  the 
main  line  of  communication  between  Anatolia 
and  Syria  or  Mesopotamia  combined  to  promote 
the  greatness  of  Tarsus,  though  its  position  was 
neither  a  healthful  or  a  strong  one  and  the  town  had 
no  acropolis. 

Of  the  foundation  of  the  city  various  traditions  were 
current  in  antiquity,  and  it  is  impossible  to  arrive  at 

any  certain  conclusion,  for  such  foundation 
2  Founda-  legends  often  reflected  the  sympathies 

and    wishes    of    a   city's   later   population 

rather  than  the  historic  facts  of  its  origin. 
Legends  At  Anchiale,  about  12  miles  S.E.  of  Tarsus, 

was  a  monument  commonly  known  as  the 
tomb  of  Sardanapalus,  king  of  Assyria,  bearing  an  in- 
scription "in  Assyr  letters"  stating  that  that  monarch 
"built  Anchiale  and  Tarsus  in  a  single  day"  (Strabo  xiv. 
672;  Arrian  A  nab.  ii.5).  The  statement  of  Alexander 
Tolyhistor.  preserved  by  Eusebius  (Chron.  i,  p.  27,  ed 
Schoene),  that  Sennacherib,  king  of  Nineveh  (705-681 
BC),  founded  the  city,  also  ascribes  to  it  an  Assyr  origin. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDI A 


Tarpelites 
Tarsus 


On  the  other  hand,  the  Greeks  had  their  own  traditions, 
claiming  Tarsus  as  a  Gr  or  semi-Gr  foundation.  Strabo 
says  that  it  owed  its  rise  to  the  Arrives  who  with  Tri- 
ptolemus  wandered  in  search  of  lo  (xiv.(i7H),  while  others 
spoke  of  Heracles  or  Perseus  as  the  founder.  It  must 
be  admitted  that  these  tales,  taken  by  themselves,  give 
us  little  aid. 

Ramsay  believes  that  Tarsus  existed  from  time 
immemorial    as    a    native    Cilician    settlement,    to 
which  was  added,  at  some  early  date 
3.  Tarsus      unknown    to    us,   a  body   of   lonians, 
under  which  migrated  from  the  western  coast 

Oriental  of  Asia  Minor  under  the  auspices  and 
Power  direct  ion  of  the  oracle  of  Clarian  Apollo 

near  Colophon.  The  earliest,  historical 
record  of  the  town  is  found  on  the  Black  Obelisk 
of  Shalrnaneser,  about  850  BC,  where  it  figures 
among  the  places  captured  by  that  king.  It  is 
thus  proved  that  Tarsus  already  existed  at  that 
remote  date.  For  many  centuries  it  remained  an 
oriental  rather  than  a  'Hellenic  city,  and  its  his- 
tory is  almost  a  blank.  After  the  fall  of  the 
Assyr  empire,  Cilicia  may  have  regained  its  in- 
dependence, at _ least  partially,  but  it  subsequently 
became  a  province  of  the  Pers  empire,  paying  to 
the  Great  King  an  annual  tribute  of  3(>6  white 
horses  and  500  talents  of  silver  (Herod,  hi. 90)  and 
contributing  considerable  fleets,  when  required,  to 
the  Pers  navy.  From  time  to  time  we  hear  of  rulers 
named  Syennesis,  who  appear  to  have  been  vassal 
princes  in  a  greater  or  less  degree  of  dependence 
upon  the  oriental  empires.  Two  clear  glimpses  of 
the  city  _  are  afforded  us,  thanks  to  the  passage 
through  it  of  Hellenic  troops  engaged  upon  eastern 
expeditions.  Xenophon  (A nab.  i.2,  21  if)  tells  how, 
in  401  BC,  Cyrus  the  Younger  entered  Cilicia  on 
his  famous  march  against  his  brother  Artaxerxes, 
and  how  some  of  his  Gr  mercenaries  plundered 
Tarsus,  which  is  described  as  a  great  and  prosperous 
city,  in  which  was  the  palace  of  King  Syennesis. 
The  king  made  an  agreement  with  Cyrus,  who, 
after  a  delay  of  20  days,  caused  by  the  refusal  of 
his  troops  to  march  farther,  set  out  from  Tarsus 
for  the  Euphrates.  Again,  in  333  BC,  Alexander 
the  Great  passed  through  the  Cilician  Gates  on 
his  way  to  Issus,  where  he  met  and  routed  the  Pers 
army  under  Darius  III.  Arsames,  the  satrap  of 
Cilicia,  failed  to  post  a  sufficient  force  at  the  pass, 
the  garrison  fled  without  resistance  and  Alexander 
thus  entered  the  province  without  striking  a  blow. 
The  Persians  thereupon  set  fire  to  Tarsus,  but  the 
timely  arrival  of  the  Macedonian  advance  guard 
under  Parmenio  saved  the  city  from  destruction. 
A  bath  in  the  cold  waters  of  the  Cydnus  which 
Alexander  took  while  heated  with  his  rapid  ad- 
vance brought  on  a  fever  which  all  but  cost 
him  his  life  (Arrian  A  nab.  ii.l;  Q.  Curtius  Hist. 
Alex,  iii.4  f) .  For  two  centuries  Tarsus  had  been  the 
capital  of  a  Pers  satrapy,  subject  to  oriental  rather 
than  to  Hellenic  influence,  though  there  was 
probably  a  Hellenic  element  in  its  population, 
and  its  trade  brought  it  into  touch  with  the 
Greeks.  The  Cilician  coins  struck  at  Tarsus  con- 
firm this  view.  Down  to  Alexander's  conquest, 
they  ordinarily  bear  Aram,  legends,  and  many  of 
them  show  the  effigy  of  Baal  Tar/,  the  Lord  of 
Tarsus;  yet  these  coins  are  clearly  influenced  by 
Gr  types  and  workmanship. 

Alexander's  overthrow  of  the  Pers  power  brought 

about  a  strong  Hellenic  reaction  in  Southeastern 

Asia  Minor  and  must  have  strength- 

4.  Tarsus       ened   the  Gr  element  in   Tarsus,   but 

under  more  than  a  century  and  a  half  were 

Greek  to  elapse  before  the  city  attained  that 

Sway  civic   autonomy   which  was  the   ideal 

and  the  boast  of  the  Gr  p6lin.     After 

Alexander's  death  in  323  BC  his  vast   empire;  was 

soon  dismembered  by  the  rivalries  and  wars  e>f  his 


powerful  generals.  Cilicia  ultimately  fell  under  the 
rule  of  the  Seleucid  kings  of  Syria,'  whose  capital 
was  Antioch  on  the  Orontes.  Though  Greeks,  they 
inherited  certain  features  of  the  old  Pers  policy  and 
methods  of  rule;  Cilicia  was  probably  governed 
by  a  satrap,  and  there  was  no  development  within 


Coin  of  Tarsus. 

it  of  free  city  life.  Early  in  the  2d  cent.,  however, 
came  a  change.  Antiochus  III,  defeated  by  the 
Romans  in  the  battle  of  Magnesia  (190  BC)',  was 
forced  to  evacuate  most  of  his  possessions  in' Asia 
Minor.  Cilicia  thus  became  a  frontier  province 
and  gamed  greatly  in  importance.  The  outcome 
was  the  reorganization  of  Tarsus  as  an  autonomous 
city  with  a  coinage;  of  its  own,  which  took  place 
under  Antiochus  IV  Epiphanes  (17r>-l(>4>,  probably 
in  171  BC.  It  is  at  this  time  that  Tarsus  is  first 
mentioned,  in  the  Bible,  unless  we  are  to  accept  the 
disputed  identification  with  TAKSIIISH  (q.v.).  In 
2  Mace  4  30  f  we  read  that,  about  171  BC, 
"it  came  to  pass  that  they  of  Tarsus  and  Mallus 
made  insurrection,  because;  they  were  to  be  given  as 
a  present  to  Antiochis,  the  king's  concubine.  The 
king  therefore  came  lo  Cilicia  in  all  haste  to  settle 
matters."  That  this  settlement  took  the  form  of 
a  compromise  and  the  grant  to  Tarsus  of  at  least 
a  municipal  independence  we  may  infer  from  the 
fact  that  Tarsus  struck  its  own  coins  from  this 
reign  onward.  At  first  they  bear  the  name  of 
Antioch  on  the  Cydnus,  but  from  the  death  of 
Antiochus  this  new  appellation  falls  into  disuse  and 
the  old  name  reasserts  itself.  But  it  is  almost 
certain  that,  in  accordance  with  Seleucid  policy,  this 
reorganization  was  accompanied  by  the  enlarge- 
ment of  the  citizen  body,  the  new  citizens  in  this 
case  consisting  probably  of  Jews  and  Argive  Greeks. 
From  this  time  Tarsus  is  a  city  of  Hellenic  consti- 
tution, and  its  coins  no  longer  bear  Aram,  but  Gr 
legends.  Yet  it  must  bo  remembered  that  there 
was  still  a  large,  perhaps  a  preponderating,  native 
and  oriental  element  in  the  population,  while  the 
coin  types  in  many  cases  point  to  the  continued 
popularity  of  non-Hellenic  cults. 

About   104   BC  part  of   Cilicia   became  a  Rom 
province,   and  after  the  Mithridatic  Wars,  during 
which  Tarsus  fell  temporarily  into  the 
5.  Tarsus       hands  of  Tigranes  of  Armenia,  Pompey 
in  the  the    Great     reorganized     the     eastern 

Roman  portion    of    the    Rom    Empire    (04-G3 

Empire  BC),and  Tarsus  became  the  capital  of 

a  new  and  enlarged  province,  admin- 
istered by  Rom  governors  who  usually  held  office 
for  a  single  year.  Thus  we  find  Cicero 'in  command 
of  Cilicia  from  the  summer  of  ~>1  BC  to  the  summer 
of  the  following  year,  and  though  he  expressly 
mentions  Tarsus  only  rarely  in  his  extant  letters 
of  this  period  (e.g.  Ad  Att.v.20.3;  A<l  Font,  ii.17.1), 
yet  there  is  reason  to  believe  that  he  resided  there 
during  part  of  his  year  of  office.  Julius  Caesar 
passed  through  the  city  in  47  BC  on  his  march  from 
Egypt  to  Pont  us,  and  was  enthusiastically  received. 
In  his  honor  the  name  Tarsus  was  changed  to 
Juliopolis,  but  this  proved  no  more  lasting  than 
Antioch  on  the  Cydnus  had  been.  Cassius  tempo- 


Tarsus 
Tattler 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


rarily  overawed  if  and  imposed  on  it  a  crushing  fine, 
hut,  after  the  overthrow  of  the  republican  cause 
at,  Philippi  and  the  assignment  of  the  East  to  An- 
tony's administration,  Tarsus  received  the  position 
of  an  independent  and  duty-free  state  (ciritas 
lihcra  ct  iinmnnia)  and  became  for  some  time 
Antony's  place  of  residence.  This  privileged 
status  was  confirmed  by  Augustus  after  the  victory 
of  Act  him  had  made  him  sole  master  of  the  Rom 
Empire  (31  BC).  It,  did  not,  by  itself  bestow  Rom 
citizenship  on  the  Tarsians,  but,  doubtless  there 
were  many  natives  of  the  city  to  whom  Pornpey, 
Caesar,  Antony  and  Augustus  granted  that  honor 
for  themselves  and,  as  a  consequence,  for  their 
descendants. 

It  is  under  the  rule  of  Augustus  that  our  knowl- 
edge of  Tarsus  first,  becomes  fairly  full  and  precise. 
Strabo,  writing  about  1!)  AD,  tells  us 
6.  The  (xiv.(>73ff)   of    the    enthusiasm   of  its 

University      inhabitants     for     learning,     and     esp 
for    philosophy.      In    this    respect,    he 
says,     Tarsus    surpasses    Athens    and    Alexandria 
and  every  other  university  town.     It  was  character- 
ized by  the  fact  that  the  student  body  was  composed 
almost,    entirely    of    natives,    who,    after    finishing 
their  course,  usually  went  abroad  to  complete  their 
education  and  in  most   cases  did  not  return  home, 
whereas  in  most,  universities  the  students  were  to  a 
large  extent  foreigners,  and  the  natives  showed  no 
great  love  of  learning.     Alexandria,  however,  formed 
an  exception,  attracting  a  large;  number  of  foreign 
students  and  also  sending  out  many  of  its  younger 
citizens    to   other    centers.      In    fact,    adds   Strabo, 
Rome  is  full  of  Tarsians  and  Alexandrians.     Among 
the  famous  men  who  learned  or  taught  at   Tarsus, 
we    hear    of    the    Stoics    Antipater,    Archedemus, 
Nestor,     Athenodorus     surnamed     Cordylion,     the 
friend  and  companion  of  the  younger  Marcus  Cato, 
and  his  more  famous  namesake   (called  Cananites 
after  the  village  of  his  birth),  who  was  the  tutor 
and   confidant   of  Augustus,  and  who  subsequently 
reformed  the  Tarsian  constitution.     Other  philoso- 
phers of  Tarsus  were  Nestor,   a  representative  of 
the  Academy,  and   tutor   of   Marcellus,   Augustus' 
nephew   and   destined   successor,    and   of   Tiberius, 
Plutiadcs  and  Diogenes;   the  latter  was  also  famous 
as  an    improvisatore,    and   indeed   the  Tarsians   in 
general  were  famed   for  their  ease  and  fluency  in 
impromptu  speaking.      Artemidorus  and   Diodorus 
the  grammarians  and   Dionysides  the  tragic   poet, 
a  member  of  the  group  of  seven  writers  known  as 
"the    Pleiad,"    complete;    Strabo's    list    of    eminent 
Tarsians.      A  less  attractive  view  of  the  life  in  Tarsus 
is  given  by  Philostratus  in  his  biography  of  Apollo- 
nian of  Tyana,  who  went  there  to  study  in  the  early 
part  of  Tiberius'  reign  (14-37  AD).     So  disgusted 
was  he  by  the  insolence  of  the  citizens,  their  love 
of  pleasure  and   their  extravagance!  in  dress,   that 
he  shook  the  dust   of  Tarsus  e>f'f  his  fe>e-t   and  went 
to  Aegae  to  pursue  his  studies  in  a  more  congenial 
atmosphere  (ViL  Apollon.  i.7).     But  Strabo's  testi- 
mony is  that  of  a  contemporary  ami  an  accurate 
historian  anel  must,  outweigh  that   of  Philostratus, 
whose  work   is   largely   tinged   with   romance  and 
be^lemgs  to  the  early  years  of  the  3d  cent.  AD. 

Strabo  also  tells  us  something  of  an  important 
constitutional  reform  carried  out,  in  Tarsus  under 
the  Emperor  Augustus,  probably  about 
7.  The  15-10    BC.     Athene>dorus    Cananites, 

Tarsian  the  Stoic,   returned   to  his  city  as  an 

Constitution  e>ld  man,  after  some  30  years  spent  at 
Rome,  armed  with  authority  from  the 
emperor  to  reform  abuse's  in  its  civic  life.  He  founel 
the  constitution  a  democracy,  swayed  and  preyed 
upon  by  a  corrupt  clique  headed  by  a  certain 
Boethus,  "bad  poet  anel  bad  citizen,"  who  owed 
his  position  partly  to  his  ready  and  persuasive 


tongue,  partly  to  the  favor  of  Antony,  whom  he  had 
pleased  by  a  poem  composeel  to  celebrate  the 
victory  of  Philippi.  Athenodorus  sought  at  first 
to  mend  matters  by  argument  and  persuasion,  but, 
finding  Boethus  anel  his  party  obdurate,  he  at 
length  exercised  his  extraordinary  powers,  banished 
the  offenders  and  remodeled  the  constitution,  pre>b- 
ably  in  _a  timocratic  molel,  restricting  the  full 
citizenship  to  those;  possesses!  e>f  a  considerable 
property  qualification.  On  his  death,  his  place  as 
head  e>f  the  state  was  taken  feir  a  while;  by  the 
academic  philosopher  Ne>stor  (Strabo  xiv.074f). 
Next  to  Strabo's  account  our  most  valuable  source 
of  information  regarding  Tarsus  is  to  be  found  in 
the  two  orations  of  Dio  Chrysostom  addressed  to 
the  Tarsians  about  110  AI)  (Oral,  xxxiii,  xxxiv; 
see  Jour.  II dl.  AWrns,  XXIV,  5S  IT).  Though  ad- 
mitting that  the  city  was  an  Argive  colony,  he 
emphasized  its  non-Hellenic  character,  anel,  "while 
criticizing  much  in  its  institutions  and  manners, 
founel  but  a  single  feature  to  commend,  the  strict- 
ness with  which  the  Tarsian  women  were  veiled 
whenever  they  appeared  in  public. 

Such  was  Tarsus,  in  which  Paul  was  born  (Acts 
22  3)  and  of  which  he  was  a  citizen   (Acts  9  11; 
21  3!)).     Its    ancient    traditions    and 
8.  Paul  of      its     present     greatness     explain     anel 
Tarsus  justify  the  pride  with  which  he  claimed 

to    be    "a    e'itize-n    e>f    no    mean    city" 
(Acts  21  39).     It  is  probable  that  his  forefathers 
had    been   among   the;   Jews   settled   at   Tarsus   by 
Antiochus    Epiphanes,     who,     without    sacrificing 
nationality  e>r  religiem,  became  citizens  e>f  a  com- 
munity  organizeel   after  the  (Ir  model.     On  what 
occasion    and    for    what    service    Rom    ciritas    had 
been  conferrcel  on  one  of  Paul's  ancestors  we  cannot 
say;     this    only    we    know,    that    before    his    birth 
his  father  had  possessed  the  coveted  privilege  (Acts 
22  2S).     It  is  a  fascinating,  but   an  elusive,  quest 
to  trace  in  Paul's  life  and  writings  the  influence  of 
his  Tarsian  ancestry,  birth  and  early  life.     Jerome, 
it   is   true,    claims   that    many   Pauline  words  anel 
phrases   were   characteristic   of   Cilicia,    and   some 
modern  scholars  profess  1  ofind  1  races,  in  t  he  apost  le's 
rhetoric  and  in  his  attitude  toward  pagan  religion 
and    secular    learning,   erf   Tarsian   influence.     But 
such  speculations  are  likely  to  be  misleading,  and  it 
is  perhaps  best  to  admit  that,   save  in   the  trade 
learned   by    Paul,   which   was  characteristic  of  his 
birthplace,  we  cannot  with  any  pircision  gauge;  the 
efTee-ts  of  his  early  surroundings.     At  the  same  time 
it  is  certain  that  the  character  e>f  his  native;  e-ity,  its 
strong    oriental    element,    its    Gr   constitution   anel 
speech,  its  position  in  the  Rom  Empire1,  its  devotion 
te>  learning,  must  have  made  an  impression  upon  e>ne 
who,   uniting  Jewish  nationality  with  membership 
of  a  Gr  state  and  Re>m  citizenship,  was  te)  be;  the 
great   interpreter  te>  the  Graeco-Rom  world  of  a 
religion   which    sprang   from    the1   soil   of   Judaism. 
How  long  Paul  remained  at  Tarsus  before  beginning 
his    studies    in    Jerus    we    cannot    say.     His    own 
declaration  that  he  was  "born  in  Tarsus  of  Cilicia, 
but  brought  up  in  this  city"  (Acts  22  3)  seems  to 
show  that  his  training  at  Jerus  began  at   an  early 
age,  and  is  inconsistent  with  the  supposition  that 
lie;  was  e>ne  of  those  Tarsian  students  who,   after 
studying  at  their  native  university,  ce>mple'te>el  the-ir 
3elucation  abroad.     During  his  first  visit  te>  Jerus 
after  his  conversion,  plots  were  formed  against  his 
life,  and  he  was  induced  to  return  to  Tarsus  (Acts 
)  30),   where,   according  to  Ramsay's  chronology, 
le  remained  fe>r  some  8  years.     Thither  Barnabas 
vent  to  seek  him  when  he  felt  the  need  of  a  helper  in 
lealing   with   the   new   problems   involved   in    the 
growth  of  the  Antiochene  church  anel  the  admission 
nto  it  of  Gentiles  in  considerable  numbers  (Acts 
LI  25).     Tarsus  is  not  again  mentioned  in  the  NT, 


2917 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tarsus 
Tattler 


hut  Paul  doubtless  revisited  it  on  his  second  mis- 
sionary journey,  when  he  "went  through  Syria  and 
Cilicia"  (Acts  16  41),  and  traveled  thence  by  way 
of  the  Cilician  Gates  into  Lycaonia,  and  again  at 
the  beginning  of  his  third  journey  when,  after 
some  time  spent  at  Antioch,  "he  departed,  and  went 
through  the  region  of  Galatia,  and  Phrygia,  in 
order"  (Acts  18  23). 

This  is  not  tho  place  to  discuss  in  detail  the  later  history 
of  Tarsus,  many  passages  of  which  are  obscure  arid  diffi- 
cult. It  remained  a  focus  of  imperial  loy- 
9  Later  "-hy,  as  is  indicated  by  the  names  Hadriane, 

Commodiane,  Severiane  and  others,  which 
.History  appear,  isolated  or  conjoined,  upon  its 

coins,  together  with  the  title  of  metropolis 
and  such  epithets  as  "first,"  "greatest,"  "fairest." 
Indeed  it  was  chiefly  in  the  matter  of  such  distinctions 
that  it  carried  on  a  keen,  and  sometimes  bitter,  rivalry, 
first  with  Mallus  and  Adana,  its  neighbors  in  the  western 
plain,  and  later  with  Anazarbus,  the  chief  town  of 
Eastern  Cilicia.  But  Tarsus  remained  the  capital  of  the 
district,  which  during  the  1st  cent,  of  the;  empire!  was 
united  with  Syria  in  a  single  imperial  province,  and  when 
(Mlicia  was  made  a  separate  province  Tarsus,  as  a  matter 
of  course,  became  its  metropolis  and  the  center  of  the 
provincial  Caesar-worship,  and,  at  a  later  date,  the 
capital  of  "the  three  eparchiae,"  Oilicia,  Isauria  and 
Lycaonia.  Toward  the  close  of  the  4th  cent.  Oilieia  was 
divided  into  two,  and  Tarsus  became  the  capital  of  Cilicia 
Prima  only.  Soon  after  the  middle  of  the  7th  cent,  it  was 
captured  by  the  Arabs,  and  for  the  next  three  centuries 
was  occupied  by  them  as  their  northwestern  capital  and 
base  of  operations  against  the  Anatolian  plateau  and  the 
Byzantine  empire.  In  905  it  was  recaptured,  together 
with  t  he  rest  of  Oilieia,  by  the  emperor  Xicephorus  Phocas, 
but  toward  the  close  of  the  following  century  it  fell  into 
the  hands  of  the  Turks  and  afterward  of  the  Crusaders. 
It  was  subsequently  ruled  by  Armenian  princes  as  part 
of  the  kingdom  of  Lesser  Armenia,  and  then  by  the 
Mernluk  sultans  of  Egypt,  from  whom  it  was  finally 
wrested  by  the  Ottoman  Turks  early  in  the  16th  cent. 
The  modern  town,  which  still  bears  the  ancient  name  in 
the  slightly  modified  form  Tersous,  has  a  very  mixed 
population,  numbering  about  25,000,  and  considerable 
trade,  but  suffers  from  its  unhealthful  situation  and 
the  proximity  of  large  marshy  tracts.  Few  traces  of  its 
ancient  greatness  survive,  tho  most  considerable  of  them 
being  the  vast  substructure  of  a  Graeeo-Hom  temple, 
known  locally  as  the  tomb  of  Sardanapalus  (K.  Koldewey 
in  O.  Robert,  A  us  der  Anomia,  178ff). 

LIT  i:  NATURE.  —  The  best  account  of  Tarsus  will  be 
found  in  VV.  M.  Ramsay,  The  Cities  of  St.  Paul  (London, 
1907),  85-244;  the  same  writer's  arts,  on  "Cilicia, 
Tarsus  and  the  Great  Taurus  Pass"  in  the  Geographical 
Journal,  1903,  357  If,  and  on  "Tarsus"  in  I/DH  should  also 
be  consulted,  as  well  as  H.  Bohlig,  Die  Geisteskultur  von 
Tnr.ioH  im  augusteischen  Zeit  alter  (Gottillgen,  1913).  For 
inscriptions  see  LeBas-Waddington,  Voyaye  arrhcolouigue, 
III,  nos.  1470  ff;  Inscr.  Grace,  ad  res  Rom.  pertinentes, 
III,  K70  fT.  For  coins,  B.  V.  Head,  Historia  Numorum*, 
7'2(.)  ff;  G.  F.  Hill,  liritish  Museum  Cntdlnijue  of  Coins: 
Lyctiunia,  Isauria  and  Cilicia,  Ixxvi  If,  102  If. 

M.  N.  TOD 

TARTAK,  tiir'tak  (pi-HP  ,  iartak):  In  2  K  17 
31  mentioned  as  the  name  of  an  idol  of  the  Avvites, 
one  of  the  peoples  sent  by  Shalmaneser  to  the  cities 
of  Samaria.  It  is  otherwise  unknown. 


TARTAN,  tar'tan  ("t-nn  ,  tartan):  For  a  long 
time,  the  word  was  interpreted  as  a  proper  name;, 
but  the  Assyr  inscriptions  have  shown  it  to  be  the 
title  of  a  high  official.  From  the  eponym  lists 
it  would  seem  that  it  was  the  title  of  the  highest 
official  next  to  the  king,  which  in  a  military  empire 
like  Assyria  would  be  the  "commander-in-chief." 
The  Assyr  form  of  the  name  is  tartanu  or  turtanu. 
In  both  OT  passages  the  reference  is  to  a  military 
officer.  In  Isa  20  1  it  is  used  of  the  officer  scut 
by  Sargon,  king  of  Assyria,  against  Ashdod;  ac- 
cording to  2  Iv  18  17,  Sennacherib  sent  Tartan 
and  RABSARIS  (cj.v.)  and  RABSHAKIOH  (q.v.)  with 
a  great  host  against  Jerus.  The  names  of  the  two 
officials  are  not  known.  F.  C.  EISELEN 

TASKMASTER,  task'mas-ter  (DE  nil)  ,  sar  ma?, 
"chief  of  the  burden"  or  "levy"  [Ex  1  11];  to?"  , 
noghcs,  "distress,"  "driver,"  "oppressor,"  "raiser 
of  taxes,"  "taskmaster"  [Ex  3  7;  5  G.  10.13.  14]): 
Officials  of  this  class  seem  to  have  been  officially 


appointed  by  Pharaoh  for  the  purpose  of  oppressing 
the  Israelites  and  subduing  their  spirits,  lest  they 
seek  complete  independence  or  organize  a  rebellion 
against  the  government  (Ex  1  11).  The  condition 
of  the  Israelites  at  this  lime  became  one  of  complete 
vassalage  or  slavery,  probably  owing  to  the  fact 
that  the  Hyksos  were  driven  out  and  a  new  dynasty 
was  established,  which  knew  nothing  of  Joseph  and 
his  people.  FRANK.  E.  Hmsni 


TASSEL,  tas"l  (niTS  ,  with)  :  This  word  occurs 
only  in  Nu  15  3<S  (RVm),  which  reads  "tassels 
in  the  corners"  for  "fringes  in  the  borders  of  their 
garments"  (AV). 

It  is  probable  that  the  dress  of  the  Palestinian 
peasant  has  undergone  little  change  in  the  centuries 
since  the  occupation  of  the  land  by  the  Hebrews. 
His  outer  garment,  worn  for  protection  against 
cold  and  rain,  is  the  simldh  of  Ex  22  2(5,  now  known 
as  'abdyah  by  the  Arabs.  It  is  a  square  cloak,  with 
unsewn  spaces  for  arrnholes,  and  is  composed  of 
either  three  or  four  widths  of  woven  stuff.  The 
outer  strips  of  the  stuff,  folded  back  and  sewn 
at  the  upper  edges,  form  shoulder-straps.  It  was 
to  such  a  garment  as  this  that  UK;  injunctions 
of  Nu  15  37-41  and  of  Dt  22  12  applied.  See 
FRINGES.  W.  SHAW  CAI.DECOTT 

TASTE,  tast  (Heb  D?t2  ,  ta*am,  "the  sense  of 
taste,"  "perception,"  from  C37I2  ,  ta~tim,  "to  taste," 
"to  perceive";  Aram.  C1TI2  ,  t'*cm,  "flavor,"  "taste" 
[of  a  thing];  Heb  ^JH  ,  hcUt,  "palate,"  "roof  of  the 
mouth"  =  "taste"  ;  •y*1"0Hlcu>  flcuonidi;  noun  -yevo-is, 
geusis;  in  2  Mace  7  1  the  vb.  is  e<j>a.TrTOfj.ai,,  cpfidj)- 
tomai)  : 

(1)  Literal:    («)  Gustation,  to  try  by  Iho  tongue: 
"The  taste  [ta'am]  of  it    [manna]   was   like  wafers 
made  with  honey"  (Ex  16  31);    "Doth  not  the  ear 
try  words,  even  as  the  palate  [hckh]  tasteth  [to?  am] 
its  food  ?"  (Job  12  11);  "Belshazzar,  while  he  tasted 
[lit.  "at  the  taste  of,"  t^em]  the  wine,  commanded 
to  bring  the  golden  and  silver  vessels  which  Nebu- 
chadnezzar his  father  had  taken  out  of  the  temple 
which  was  in  Jerus;    that  the  king  and  his  lords, 
his  wives  and  his  concubines,   might    drink  there- 
from"  (Dnl  5  2).     (b)  "To  sample,"  "to  eat  but  a 
small   morsel":     "I   did    certainly    taste    [to?  a  in]  a 
little  honey  with  the  end  of  the  rod  that  was  in  my 
hand;   and,  lo,  I  must  die"  (1  S  14  43). 

(2)  Figurative:    "To  experience,"  "to  perceive": 
"Oh   taste   and   see   that   Jeh   is   good"    (Ps  34  8; 
cf  1  Pet  2  3);     "How  sweet  are  thy   words   unto 
my  taste!"  (m  "palate,"  hckh)  (Ps  119  103);  "That 
by  the  grace  of  God  he  should  taste  of  death  for 
every  man"  (He  2  9);    "For  as  touching  those  who 
were  once  enlightened  and  tasted  of  the  heavenly 
gift,  and  were  made  partakers  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
and  tasted  the  good  word  of  God,  and  the  powers 
of  the  age  to  come  .  .  .  ."  (6  4.5). 

II.    L.    E.    LUERING 

TATTENAI,  tat'e-ni  pIPW  ,  tat  f  nay,  various 
forms  in  LXX;  AV  Tatnai,  tat'nl,  tat'nil-I):  A  Pers 
governor,  who  was  the  successor  of  Rehum  in  Sama- 
ria and  some  other  provinces  belonging  to  Judah, 
bordering  on  Samaria.  He  governed  the  provinces 
during  the  reign  of  Darius  Hystaspis  and  Zerubbabel 
(Ezr  5  3.6;  6  6.13).  He  was  friendly  to  the  Jews, 
and  when  he  heard  adverse  reports  from  Jerus  he 
suspended  judgment  till  he  had  investigated  the 
matter  on  the  ground,  and  then  reported  to  the  Pers 
government  in  a  very  moderate  manner.  In  1  Esd 
6  3.7.27;  7  1  he  is  called  "Sisinnes." 

S.  L.  UMHACII 

TATTLER,  tat'ler:  Only  in  1  Tim  5  13  for 
<f>\vapos,  phluaros.  A  "silly  talker,"  rather  than 
a  "revealer  of  secrets,"  is  meant. 


Tav 

Tax,  Taxing 


Till-]  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


29  IS 


TAV,  tiiv.     Sec  TAW. 

TAVERNS,  tav'ernz,  THREE: 

Three  Taverns  (Lai,  7'/rx  Tnbcrnac,  Or  trans- 
literates trt!'is  tal>('rtini;  Cicero  Ail  Alt.  i.13;  ii.12, 
13)  was  ;i  statioi  on  t  lie  .Appian  Road  at  the  33d 
milestone  (30',-  E::g.  miles  from  Rome;,  according 
to  the  Itineraries  of  the  Rom  Empire  (I tin.  Ant. 
vii;  Tnh.  l\  nt.;  (Icixjr.  l\<ir.  iv.34),  a  converging 
point  of  traffic  at  t  he  crossing  of  a  road  from  Antitim 
to  Norha.  Tripontium,  (5  miles  down  the  Appian 
Road  in  t  lie  direct  ion  of  Appii  Forum,  was  reckoned 
as  the  point  where  (lie  highway  entered  the  region 
of  the  Pontine  m-irshes,  the  most  notable  natural 
feature  of  this  part  of  Italy. 

Parties  of  the  Christian  brethren  in  Rome  went 
out  to  greet  the  apostle  Paul  when  news  was 
brought  that  he  had  arrived  at  Puteoli,  one  group 
proceeding  as  far  as  Appii  Forum,  while  another 
awaited  his  coming  at  Three  Taverns  (Acts  28 
15).  GEOKC;!-;  II.  ALLKX 

TAW,  tau  (Pi,  /,  n,  tin:  The  '22d  letter  of  the  Hob 
alphabet;  transliterated  in  tin's  Encyclopaedia  wil  h 
the  dag  he  sh  as  /,  and  as  ///  without.  Jt  came  also  to 
be  used  for  the  number  101).  For  name,  etc,  see 
ALIMIAHICT;  see  also  EOKKHKAD;  M.VKK. 

TAX,  taks,  TAXING,  taks'ing: 

I.     TXTHOIM-CTIO  v 

1.  (icucral  Considerations 

'2.    Limits  of  the  Discussion 

II.     TAXF.S  i\  ISUAKL  UNDRU  SELF-GOVERNMENT 
1.    In  the  Earliest  Period 
•2.    I"  rider  t  lie  Theocracy;  in  the  Period  of  the  Judges 

3.  Under  (he  Kings 

III.      TAXI:S  iv   ISK\I:I.  r\m:n  CoXQi'ERORS 

1.  ruder  t  he  Assyrians  and   lianylonians 

2.  rndcr  the  Persians 

.'}.    Under  the  Ptolemies  and  Sclcucid  Kings 

4.  I'lider  the  Konians 

/.  Introduction. — Taxation,  in  the  sense  of  regu- 
lar, graduated  imposts  levied  by  authority  upon 
wealth,  whether  in  the  form  of  flocks 
1.  General  and  herds,  tilled  lands  or  accumulated 
Consider-  treasure,  is  a  comparatively  late  product 
ations  of  social  evolut  ion.  The  beginnings  of 

this  trouble-breeding  institution  are, 
of  course,  very  ancient.  If  in  the  beginning  all 
wealth  was  common  wealth,  all  property  vested  in 
the  family  or  tribe,  making  any  kind  oi'  levies  un- 
necessary, with  the  rise  of  individualism,  the  pro- 
rat  a,  setting  aside,  for  common  uses,  of  certain  pos- 
sessions held  as  private  property  by  individuals, 
which  is  the  essence  of  taxation,  is  inevitable. 
AVith  the  advent  of  more  advanced  civilization,  by 
which  is  meant  fixed  residence,  systematic  use  and 
cultivation  of  defined  and  limited  territory,  estab- 
lished political  organization  centering  in  rulers  of 
one  kind  or  another,  regular  taxation  must  neces- 
sarily have  begun.  Throughout  history  the  burden 
of  taxation  has  kept  pace,  with  the  elaboration  of 
the  machinery  of  government;  kings,  courts,  cere- 
monials, legislative  and  judicial  administration, 
wars,  diplomacy — all  these  institutions  spell  ex- 
pense and,  consequently,  taxation.  In  a  very  real 
sense,  the  history  of  taxation  is  the  history  of  civili- 
zat  i:m. 

In  following  the  history  of  taxation  in  the  Bible, 
two  lines  of  development  are  to  be  noted:    Israel's 

internal  history  when  left  to  herself, 
2.  Limits  and  her  experiences  as  tributary  to 
of  the  successive  conquerors.  These  "two 

Discussion     lines    of    experience    form    the    main 

divisions  of  this  article.  AVe  shall  con- 
fine ourselves  so  far  as  possible  to  the  civil  aspects 
of  the  subject,  leaving  for  others  those  interesting 
problems  of  taxation  connected  with  the  origin  and 


S( 


development     of     the     priestly      legislation. 
TITIIK,  etc. 

//.    Taxes  in  Israel  under  Self-  Government. — In 

the  first  glimpses  of  the  ancestors  of  the  Heb 
people  given  us  in  the  Bible,  no  such  institution 
as  taxation  appears. 

Like  all  primitive  communities,  the  nomadic-  Hebrews 
had  no  regular  system  of  taxation  uor  use  for  any.      Vol- 
untary presents  were;  given  by  the  less  to 
1.   In  the          the  more  powerful  in  return  for  protection 
Earliest  or    ()t'1(>r    advantages.     These    are    really 

ominous  words,  for  even  sis  late  as  the 
feriOQ  United  Kingdom,  when,  of  a  certainty,  the 

voluntary  element  hud  long  since  gone  out, 
the  royal  income  was  spoken  of,  with  perhaps  uncon- 
scious irony,  as  "presents"  (1  S  10  27;  l'  K  4  21; 
10  2f>).  One  great  taproot  of  the  whole  sifter-develop- 
ment of  systematic  taxation  is  to  be  found  in  this  primi- 
tive custom  of  giving  presents  ((Jen  32  l-'i-21;  33  10; 
43  11).  The  transition  is  so  fatally  easy  from  presents 
voluntarily  given  to  those  which  are  expected  and  finally 
to  those  which  are  demanded  (2  K  16  s;  cf  17  4,  where 
AV  has  "presents"). 

The  first  evidence  of  what,  corresponds  to  com- 
pulsory taxation  discoverable  in  the  Bible;  is  in 
connection  with  the  conquered  Canaanites  who 
were  compelled  to  serve  under  tribute,  that  is,  to 
render  forced  labor  (Josh  16  10;  17  13;  Jgs  1 
2.S  3f>).  In  the  early  custom  of  making  presents 
to  the  powerful  and  in  the  exactions  laid  upon  con- 
quered peoples,  with  the  necessary  public  expense 
of  community  life  as  the  natural  basis,  we  have  the 
main  sources  of  what  grew  to  be  institutional  tax- 
ation. 

The  only  fixed  impost  under  (lie  theocracy  which 
has  a  semi-civil  character  was  the  so-called  "atone- 
ment money"  (Ex  30  11-1(5),  really  a 
2.  Under  poll-tax  amounting  to  a  half-shekel 
the  Theoc-  for  each  enrolled  male  member  of  flu; 
racy  and  community  above  20  years  of  age. 
Judges  The  proceeds  of  this  tax  were  to  bo 

used  for  the  service;  of  the  Tent,  of 
Meeting  (see  TABKIJXACLK).  It  seems  to  have 
been  levied  by  the  authorities  and  accepted  by  the 
people  whenever  faithfulness  to  the  ordinances  of 
Jeh  was  the  order  of  the  day  (2  Ch  24  4-14;  Neh 
10  32;  note  here  the  emphasis  laid  upon  the  offer- 
ing as  voluntary,  and  the  variation  in  amount  from 
one-half  to  one-third  shekel).  In  later  times  this 
tax  was  devoted  to  the  service  of  the  temple,  and 
was  paid  by  Jews  at  a  distance  during  the  Disper- 
sion. Jos  speaks  of  the  large  amounts  accruing  to 
the  temple-treasury  from  this  source  (Ant,  XIV, 
vii,  2).  It  was  still  collected  as  the  distinctive 
temple-tax  levied  upon  the  citizen  as  such  (Alt  17 
24).  It.  is  interesting  to  note  that  Jesus  paid  it 
under  protest  and  with  one  of  the  most  distinctive 
of  His  miracles,  on  the  ground  of  His  being  the 
founder  and  head  of  a  new  temple,  and  hence  not 
subject  to  the  impost  which  was  the  badge  of 
citizenship  in  the  old  order. 

The  period  of  the  Judges  was  too  disorganized  and 
chaotic  to  exhibit  many  of  the  characteristics  of  a  settled 
mode  of  procedure.  As  far  as  we  know  the  onlv  source 
of  public  moneys  was  the  giving  of  presents.  If  the 
action  of  Gideon  (Jgs  8  24)  is  to  be  taken  as  indicating 
the  ordinary  policy  of  the  period,  the.  judges  received 
nothing  more  than  a  share  of  the  spoil  taken  in  battle. 
The  account  emphasizes,  evidently  with  purpose,  the 
fact  that  (Jideon  proffers  a  request  (ver  24),  and  that  the 
people  respond  freely  and  gladly. 

As  was  to  be  expected,  taxation  assumes  far 
greater  prominence  the  moment  we  cross  the  thresh- 
old of  the  kingdom.  1  S  8  10-18  is 
3.  Under  equally  significant  for  our  purpose 
the  Kings  whether  it  was,  as  appears  on  the  face 
of  the  narrative,  the  actual  words  of 
warning  uttered  by  Samuel  in  view  of  the  well- 
known  attitude  of  kings  in  general,  or  a  later  recen- 
sion from  the  viewpoint  of  experience.  In  either 
case,  the  passage  gives  us  a  fairly  exhaustive  list 
of  royal  prerogatives.  Aside  from  various  forms 


2919 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tav 

Tax,  Taxing 


of  public  and  private  service,  the  king  would  take, 
(note  the  word)  the  best  of  the  vineyards,  etc, 
together  with  a  tenth  of  the  SIMM!  and  of" the  (locks. 
The  underlying  principle,  suggested  by  Samuel's 
summary  and  fully  exemplified  in  the  actions  of 
Israel's  kings,  is  that  the  king  would  take  what  he 
needed  for  his  public  and  private  needs  from  the 
strength  and  substance  of  his  people.  Constitu- 
tional laws  regulating  the  expenditure  of  public 
funds  and  the  amount  of  exactions  from  the  people 
in  taxation  seem  never  to  have  been  contemplated 
in  these  early  monarchies.  The  king  took  what  he 
could  get;  the  people  gave  what  they  could  not 
hold  back.  The  long  battle  for  constitutional 
rights  has  centered  from  the  beginning  about  the 
matter  of  taxation. 

In  1  S  10  27  (of  2  Oil  17  5)  the  case  cited  of  worth- 
less fellows  who  brought  Saul  no  present  clearly  shows 
that  fealty  to  the  new  king  was  expressed  in  the  giving 
of  presents.  The.  refusal  to  make  these  so-called  presents 
was  ivn  act  of  constructive  treason,  so  interpreted  by  tin- 
writer,  who  mentions  Saul's  silence  in  the  premises  as 
something  notable.  It  is  evident  that  the  word  "pres- 
ent" has  become  euphemistic.  In  1  S  17  25  exemp- 
tion from  taxation  is  specifically  mentioned,  together 
with  wealth  and  marriage  into  the  royal  family,  as  one 
element  in  the  reward  to  be  obtained' for  ridding  Israel 
of  the  menace  of  Goliath. 

In  David's  time  an  unbroken  series  of  victories  in 
war  so  enriched  the  public  treasury  (see  2  S  8  2.7.X) 
that  we  hear  little  of  complaints  of  excessive  taxation 
If  David's  census  was  for  fiscal  purposes  (24  2),  \\ecaii 
understand  why  he  was  so  severely  dealt  with  for  it  but 
the  matter  is  still  obscure.  David's  habit  of  dedicating 
spoil  to  Jeh  (8  10-12)  kept  the  sacred  treasury  well 
supplied.  Solomon  undoubtedly  inherited  David's 
scale  of  public  expense  (1  rii  27  25-31)  and  added  to 
it  through  his  well-developed  love  of  luxury  and  power 
At  the  same  time  the  cessation  of  war  made'  the  develop- 
ment of  internal  resources  for  carrying  on  his  ambitious 
schemes  imperative.  The  boundaries  of  his  kingdom 
are  specified  (1  K  4  21  [Heb  5  1])  together  witli  the 
amount  of  his  income  (i  K  1Q  14.28;  cf  2  K  3  4) 
It  is  also  stated  that  other  kingdoms  paid  tribute  to 
him.  His  system  of  fiscal  administration  was  very 
thoroughly  organized.  Ho  put  the  whole  country  under 
twelve  officers  (to  specify  one  feature)  whose;  business 
it  was  to  provide,  by  months,  provisions  for  the  court 
(1  K  4  7-19).  Under  Solomon  also,  for  the  first  time, 
so  far  as  we  know,  Israelites  wen;  compelled  to  render 
forced  labor  (1  K  5  13-17).  By  the  end  of  his  reign 
the  burden  of  taxation  had  become  so  seven;  that  in  the 
public  address  made  to  Rehoboam  the  people  demanded 
a  lightening  of  the  "grievous  service"  of  Solomon  as 
the  condition  of  their  fealty  to  his  successor.  Uehn- 
boam's  foolish  answer  of  defiance  precipitated  the  sepa- 
ration of  the  tribes  which  proved  in  the  end  so  dis- 
astrous. During  the  period  of  prophetic  activity  which 
follows,  one  recurring  specification  in  the  denunciations 
uttered  by  the  prophets  against  the  kinw  was  the  ex- 
cessive burden  of  taxation  imposed  upon  the  people 
Amos  speaks  of  "exactions  of  wheat  taken  from  the 
poor"  (5  11;  cf  2  0-8).  In  7  1  he  incidentally  refers 
to  a  custom  which  has  grown  up  of  rendering  to  the  king 
the  first  mowings  of  grass.  Isaiah  speaks  of  eating  up 
the  vineyards  and  taking  the  spoil  of  tin;  poor  (3  14) 
Micah,  with  even  greater  severity,  denounces  rulers  "who 
eat  the  flesh  of  my  people"  (3  1-4).  These  citations 
are  sufficient  to  show  that  all  through  the  later  monarchy 
the  Israelites  suffered  more  or  less  from  official  rapacity 
and  injustice. 

///.  Israel  under  Conquerors. — During  the  reign 
of  Menahem,  who  succeeded  Jeroboam  II  as  king 

of  Israel,  the  Assyr  invasion  under 
1.  Assyria  Tiglath-pileser  III  (Bib.  'Tul,"  2  K 
and  15  19)  began.  The  one  act  of  Mena- 

Babylonia  hem  (aside  from  his  general  sinfulness) 

which  is  specified  in  2  K  15  17-22, 
the  remainder  of  his  unedifving  career  being  left  to 
the  Chronicles  of  the  kings  of  Israel,  is  that  he 
bought  olT  the  Assyr  conqueror  by  a  tribute  of  a 
thousand  talents  which  he  obtained  by  mulcting 
men  of  wealth  in  his  kingdom  to  the  extent  of  fifty 
talents  each.  A  little  later,  Ahaz  of  Judah  sent  a 
present  to  the  same  ruler.  He  took  the  novel 
method  of  robbing  the  temple-treasury  and  adding 
the  sum  thus  gained  to  the  accumulations  at  hand 
in  the  royal  treasury.  Both  these  kings  were  some- 
what original  in  their  methods.  Iloshea  of  Israel, 
a  contemporary  of  Aha/,  was  reduced  to  tribute; 


later,  upon  his  neglect  to  pay,  he  was  put  in  prison 
(2  K  17  4).  A  little  later  still,  Jehoahaz,  the  son 
of  Josiah,  was  deposed  by  Pharaoh-necoh,  who 
placed  a  tribute  upon  the  land  of  a  hundred  talents 
of  silver  and  one  of  gold  (2  K  23  31 -33).  Je- 
hoiakim,  the  puppet  king,  raised  this  tribute  by  a 
special  tax  upon  the  people  (vs  3  l.3f>).  This  latter 
passage  is  especially  interesting  because  it  seems  to 
indicate  (vs  3/>  f)  a  graduated  system  of  taxation 
supposedly  honored  more  often  in  the  breach  than 
in  the  observance.  This  same  unfortunate  Je- 
hoiakim  came  under  the  heavy  hand  of  Nebuchad- 
nezzar (2  K  24  1-7).  This  latter  ruler  seems  not 
to  have  levied  a  special  tribute,  at  least  it  is  not 
mentioned;  but  reimbursed  himself  for  (lie  expenses 
of  conquest  by  carrying  away  to  Babylon  the  ves- 
sels of  the  temple  (2  Ch  36  7). 

In  Ezr  4   13,  a  part  of  a  letter  addressed  to  Ar- 
taxerxes  by  officials  "west  of  the  river"  (see  whole 
passage  vs  7  21)  who  were  hostile  to 
2.  Under        the   Jews,    it    is   charged    that   in    the 
the  Persians  event   of   rebuilding   the   city   the    in- 
habitants   would    not    pay    "tribute, 
custom,    or   toll."     These   three;   words,'   which   are 
evidently  combined  in  a  formula  and  indicate  three 
distinct    classes  of  taxes,   are  interesting   as   being 
characteristic  of  the  Pers  period. 

The  three  words  are:  (1)  ppT^  ,  midddh  =  "  tribute" 
(Ezr  4  13.20;  cf  Xeh  >  5  4,  where  the  expression  is 
"king's  tribute");  (2)  ^3,  h''l,i  =according  to  (iesenius 
s.v.:  "tax  oil  articles  consumed"  or  "excise"  (HDIi  "im- 
post") (Ezr  4  13. 20;  7  24);  (3)  rjbn,  f,iil>U- h  =" road- 
toll"  or  "custom  tax"  (Ezr  4  IM'L'O;  7  24).  These 
Assyr  words  are  to  be  contrasted  with  the  words  used 
elsewhere:  (1)  £•£  ,  mns  =  "  forced  labor"  (1  K  5  13 
[Heb  5  27];  cf  ut  sup.  Josh  16  10;  17  13;  Jgs  1  28. 
30.33.35;  Dt  20  11;  Est  10  1);  (2)  $•&•£,  massa'  = 
"burden"  (2  Ch  17  11);  (3)  CZ'Q  -  mckhcs  ="" measure," 
used  of  tribute  exacted  for  Jeh,  taken  from  people,  cattle, 
and  spoil,  etc  (Xu  31  25-31).  Krom  this  enumeration 
and  comparison  it  will  be  seen  that  the  Heb  had  no  gen- 
eral word  corresponding  to  the  Eng.  word  "tax." 

To  return  to  the  situation  in  the  Pers  period,  it 
is  evident  that  the  Pers  riders  exacted  practically 
the  same  classified  tributes,  direct  and  indirect,  tha"t 
are  found  elsewhere.  It  is  recorded  1  hat  Artaxerxes, 
in  response  to  the  letter  of  his  officers  in  Pal  (Kzr 
421),  stopped  the  work  of  the  rebuilding  of  Jems 
in  anticipation  of  the  refusal  of  the  Jewish  leaders 
to  pay  taxes.  The  work  was  resumed  in  the  2d 
year  of  Darius  under  the  protection  of  a  royal  decree 
which  gave  to  the  Jewish  authorities  a  sufficient 
amount  from  the  ''tribute!  beyond  the  river"  to  finish 
without  delay. 

Artaxerxes,  in  addition  to  his  generous  gifts, 
exempted  the  priests  and  temple-servants  from  all 
taxation  (Ezr  7  24).  In  the  days  of  Nehemiah  a 
serious  condition  arose.  The  king's  tribute  was  so 
heavy  that  the  Jewish  common  people  were  com- 
pelled to  borrow  money  upon  mortgages,  and  in  so 
doing  fell  into  the  hands  of  usurers  of  their  own 
people,  by  whom  they  were  so  impoverished  as  to 
be  compelled  to  sell  their  sons  and  daughters  into 
slavery  (Xeh  5  1-13).  In  addition  to  the  royal 
tribute,  they  were  forced  to  support  the  governors 
who  were  entitled  to  bread,  wine  and  forty  shekels 
of  silver  annually  (vs  14.15).  In  the  prayer  of- 
fered on  the  fast  day  (Nch  9)  it  was  asserted  that 
their  burdens  of  taxation  were  so  heavy  that  they 
were  servants  in  their  own  land  (vs  3b'.37). 

The  Ptolemies,  who  practically  controlled  Pal 
from  301  to  218  BC,  do  not  appear  to  have  been 
excessive  in  their  demands  for  tribute  (twenty 
talents  for  Jews  [A/it,  XII,  iv,  1]  seems  no  great 
amount),  but  the  custom  which  they  introduced, 
or  at  least  established,  of  farming  the  taxes  to  the 
highest  bidder,  introduced  a  principle  which  pre- 


Tax,  Taxing 
Teach,  Teaching 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2920 


vailed  through  all  tin;  subsequent  history  and  was 

the  cause  of  much  popular  suffering  and  discontent. 

The  story  of  Joseph,  the  Jewish  tax- 

3.  Under       collector  (Ant,  XII,  iv,  l-o),  who  was 
the  Ptole-      for  23  years  farmer-general  of  taxes 
mies  and       for    Pal    under    Ptolemy    Euergetes, 
Seleucid         and    the   cause    of    "a    long    train    of 
Kings  disasters,"  is  peculiarly  significant  for 

the  student  of  the  NT. 

The  conquest  of  Pal  by  Antiochus  the  Great 
(202  BC)  brought  a  certain  amount  of  relief  to  the 
".storm-tossed"  (Jos)  Jews  of  Pal,  as  of  old  the 
buffer  state  between  contending  powers.  Accord- 
ing to  Jos  (Ant,  XII,  iii,  3),  Antiochus  gave  the 
Jews  generous  gifts  in  money,  remitted  their  taxes 
for  three  years,  and  permanently  reduced  them  one- 
third  (see  Kent's  discussion  of  the  credibility  of 
these  statements,  Historical  Series  for  Bible  Stu- 
dents, Bab,  Pers,  Or  Periods,  29(5). 

That  the  Seleucid  kings  were  particularly  severe 
in  their  exactions  is  clearly  shown  in  the  letter  of 
Demetrius  to  the  Jews,  whose  favor  he  was  seeking 
in  rivalry  with  Alexander  Balas  of  Smyrna,  the  pre- 
tender to  tin;  Seleucid  throne  (see  1  Marc  10  26- 
30;  11  34.35;  13  39;  cf  11  28). 

In  this  quoted  letter  Demetrius  promises  the  following 
exemptions:  from  (1)  "tributes"  (<t>6poi,  phdroi  ="  poll- 
taxes");  (2)  tax  on  salt;  (3)  crown  taxes  (<rr«'4>a>'oi, 
stiphtmoi  =" crowns  of  gold "  or  their  equivalents); 
(4)  the  tribute  of  one-third  of  the  seed;  (5)  another  of 
one-half  of  the  fruit  of  the  trees  (10  20.30).  This  seems 
almost  incredibly  severe,  but  evidence  is  not  lacking  of 
its  probability  (Lance's  Comm.  Apnc,  ed  I'JOl,  525). 
With  Seleucus  IV  (187-170  BO  the  Jews  felt  for  the 
first  time,  indirectly  but  powerfully,  the  pressure  of 
Rome.  This  disreputable  ruler  had  to  pay  tribute  to 
Home  as  well  as  to  (hid  means  whereby  to  gratify  his 
own  passion  for  luxury,  and  was  correspondingly  rapa- 
cious in  the  treatment  of  his  subjects  (2  Mace  3). 

During  the  early  part  of  the  Herodian  epoch, 
taxes  were  paid  to  the  king  and  collected  by  offi- 
cers appointed  by  him.     This  method 

4.  Under        which    worked    fairly    well,    at    least 
the  Romans  under   Herod   the   Great,   had   passed 

away  before  any  books  of  the  NT  were 
written.  After  the  deposition  of  Archelaus  ((5  AD), 
at  the  request  of  the  Jews  themselves,  Judaea  was 
incorporated  into  the  Rom  empire  and  put  under 
procurators  who  were  in  charge  of  all  financial  ad- 
ministration, although  the  tetrarchs  still  collected 
the  internal  taxes.  This  fact  conditions  all  that 
is  to  be  said  about  "tribute"  and  "publicans"  in 
connection  with  the  NT.  It  is  to  be  noted  first 
of  all  (a  fact  that  is  often  overlooked  by  the 
student)  that  in  the  imperial  era  the  direct  taxes 
were  not  farmed  out,  but  collected  by  regular  im- 
perial officers  in  the  regular  routine  of  official  duty. 
The  customs  or  tolls  levied  upon  exports  and  im- 
ports, and  upon  goods  in  the  hands  of  merchants 
passing  through  the  country,  were  sold  to  the  highest 
bidders,  who  were  called  "publicans." 

With  this  distinction  clearly  In  mind  we  may  dismiss 
the  subject  of  general  taxation  with  the  following 
remarks-  First,  that  the  taxes  in  Judaea  went  to  the 
imperial  treasury  (Mt  22  17;  Mk  12  14;  Lk  20  22); 
second,  that  these  taxes  were  very  heavy.  These  two 
facts  explain  why  the  question  of  paying  tribute  to 
Caesar,  which  Our  Lord  was  obliged  to  meet;,  was  so 
burning  an  issue.  It  touched  at  once  religious  and 
financial  interest — a  powerful  combination.  In  7  AI), 
immediately  after  the  appointment  of  Coponius  as  proc- 
urator, Quirinius  (see  Quirinius,  NT  Chronology,  etc) 
was  sent  to  Judaea  to  take  a  census  (aTro-ypa^rj,  apoyrapM) 
for  the  purpose  of  a  poll-tax  (xiji-cros,  k&nsus,  </>opo?, 
phtros.  Or  iiriKe4>d\aiiov,  epike phtilaion  [Mt  22  17;  Mk  12 
13.14;  Lk  20  201T1).  This  census  was  the,  occasion  for 
the  bloody  uprising  of  Judas  of  (Jamala  (or  (lalilee) 
(Acts  5  37;  cf  Ant,  XVIII,  i,  1,  6).  As  a  matter  of 
historical  fact  this  same  census  was  the  occasion  of 
the  final  destruction  of  the  Jewish  commonwealth,  for 
the  fierce  antagonism  to  Rome  which  was  aroused  at  that 
time  never  died  out  until  it  was  extinguished  in  blood, 
70  AD. 

We  are  now  free  to  discuss  those  matters  which 


center  in  a  general  way  about  the  term  "publican." 
According  to  Stapfer  (PTC,  215)  this  term 
(reXaii'Tjs,  tcloncs)  is  commonly  used  to  cover  several 
grades  of  minor  officials  engaged  in  the  customs 
service.  The  word  was  extended  in  meaning  from 
the  publicanus,  properly  so  called,  the  farmer- 
general  of  a  province,  to  his  subordinate  local  offi- 
cials. The  publicans  of  the  NT  "examined  the 
goods  and  collected  tolls  on  roads  and  bridges" 
(Stapfer,  op.  eit,,  21(5;  ef  Mt  9  9).  These  tolls 
(Lat  portoria;  Gr  T^\TJ,  tele)  were  collected  in  Pal 
at  Caesarea,  Capernaum  and  Jericho  (Jos,  BJ,  II, 
xiv,  4).  Those  collected  at  Capernaum  went  into 
the  treasury  of  Herod  Antipas.  At  Jericho  there 
was  a  chief  publican  (apx'7"^^^*,  architeldncs),  but 
most  of  the  publicans  mentioned  in  the  NT  were 
probably  subordinate  to  men  higher  in  authority. 

Sufficient  cause  for  the  unpopularity  of  publicans 
in  NT  times  is  not  far  to  seek.  Hatred  of  paying 
duties  seems  to  be  ingrained  in  human  nature. 
Customs  officials  are  always  unpopular.  The 
method  is  necessarily  inquisitorial.  The  man  who 
opens  one's  boxes  and  bundles  to  appraise  the  value 
of  what  one  has,  is  at  best  a  tolerated  evil.  In 
Judaea,  under  the  Rom  system,  all  circumstances 
combined  to  make  the  publican  the  object  of  bitter 
hatred.  He  represented  and  exercised  in  immediate 
contact,  at  a  sore  spot  with  individuals,  the  hated 
power  of  Rome.  The  tax  itself  was  looked  upon  as 
an  inherent  religious  wrong,  as  well  as  civil  impo- 
sition, and  by  many  the  payment  of  it  was  consid- 
ered a  sinful  act  of  disloyalty  to  God.  The  tax- 
gatherer,  if  a  Jew,  was  a  renegade  in  the  eyes  of  his 
patriot  ic  fellows.  He  paid  a  fixed  sum  for  the  taxes, 
and  received  for  himself  what  he  could  over  and 
above  that  amount.  The  ancient  and  widespread 
curse  of  arbitrariness  was  in  the  system.  The 
tariff  rates  were  vague  and  indefinite  (We  Schiirer, 
//,//',  I,  ii,  (>7  f).  The  collector  was  thus  always 
under  the  suspicion  of  being  an  extortioner  and 
probably  im.s  in  most  instances.  The  name  was 
apt  to  realize  itself.  The  usual  combination  in  a 
publican  of  petty  tyrant,  renegade  and  extortioner, 
made  by  circumstances  almost  inevitable,  was  not 
conducive  to  popularity.  In  the  score  of  instances 
in  the  NT  where  publicans  are  mentioned,  their 
common  status,  their  place  in  the  thought  and 
action  of  Jesus,  their  new  hope  in  the  gospel  are 
clearly  set  forth.  The  instances  in  which  Our 
Lord  speaks  of  them  are  especially  illuminating: 
(1)  lie  uses  them  on  the  basis  of  the  popular  esti- 
mate which  the  disciples  undoubtedly  shared,  to 
point  in  genial  irony  a  reproach  addressed  to  His 
hearers  for  their  low  standard  of  love  and  forgive- 
ness (Mt  6  46.47).  (2)  He  uses  the  term  in  the 
current  combination  in  giving  directions  about 
excommunicating  a  persistently  unrepentant  mem- 
ber of  the  church  (Mt  18  17).  (3)  He  uses  the 
term  in  the  popular  sense  in  describing  the  current 
condemnation  of  His  attitude  of  social  fellowship 
with  them,  and  constructively  accepts  the  title  of 
"friend  of  publicans  and  sinners"  (Mt  11  19;  Lk 
7  34).  (4)  Most  significant  of  all,  Jesus  uses  the 
publican,  as  He  did  the  Samaritan,  in  a  parable  in 
which  the  despised  outcast  shows  to  advantage  in 
an  attitude  acceptable  to  God  (Lk  18  Off). 

This  parable  is  reinforced  by  the  statement,  made  more 
than  once  by  Our  Lord,  that  the  readiness  to  repent 
shown  by  the  publicans  and  other  outcasts  usually  found 
with  them  was  more  promising  of  salvation  than  the 
spiritual  pride  shown  by  some  who  were  satisfied  with 
themselves  (Lk  3  12;  cf  7  29;  Mt  21  31.32;  Lk  15  1). 
The  choice  of  Levi  as  a  disciple  (Mt  10  3,  etc)  and  the 
conversion  of  Zacehaeus  (Lk  19  8f),  of  whom  Jesus 
speaks  so  beautifully  as  a  son  of  Abraham  (vcr  9),  justi- 
fied the  characteristic  attitude  which  Our  Lord  adopted 
toward  this  despised  class,  about  equally  guilty  and 
unfortunate.  He  did  not  condone  their  faults  or  crimes; 
neither  did  He  accept  the  popular  verdict  that  pro- 
nounced them  unfit  for  companionship  with  the  good 


2921 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tax,  Taxing 
Teach,  Teaching 


and  without  hope  in  the  world.  According  to  the 
teaching  and  accordant  action  of  Jesus,  no  man  or 
woman  is  without  hope  until  the  messenger  of  hope  has 
been  definitely  rejected. 

It,  is  fitting,  if  somewhat  dramatic,  that  a  study  of 
taxation — that  historic  root  of  bitterness  periodi- 
cally springing  up  through  the  ages — should  end 
in  contemplation  of  Him  who  spoke  to  an  outcast 
and  guilty  tax-collector  (Lk  19  10)  the  wonderful 
words:  "The  Son  of  man  came  to  seek  and  to  save 
that  which  was  lost."  Louis  MATTHEWS  SWEET 

TEACH,  tech,  TEACHER,  tech'er,  TEACHING, 
tech'ing: 

I.     OT  TERMS  5.   Exposition 

1.  Discipline  (>.   Authority 

2.  Law  7.   ('an; 

:?.  Discernment  X.   Supervision 

4.  Wisdom  III.     OT   HI.STOHY 

5.  Knowledge  1.   [n  the  Homo 
(5.  Illumination                             2.    In  Public; 

7.  Vision  IV.     EXTRA-BIBLICAL 

8.  Inspiration  TE  ACHI  NO 

0.  Nourishment  \.     NT  HISTORY 
II.     XT  TERMS  1.   Christ's  Life 

1.  Instruction  2.   Apostolic  Labors 

2.  Acquisition  3.  General  Consider- 

3.  Presentation  ations 

4.  Elucidation 

A  rich  variety  of  words  is  employed  in  the  Bible  to 
describe  the  teaching  process.  The  terms  do  not  so 
much  indicate  an  office  and  an  official  as  a  function 
and  a  service,  although  both  ideas  are  often  ex- 
pressed or  implied. 

/.  OT  Terms.— Tab,    lamarlh,    "to   beat":     A 

very  common  word  for  "to  teach";    it  may  have 

meant  "to  beat  with  a  rod,"  "to  chas- 

1.  Dis-  tise,"  and  may  have  originally  referred 
cipline  to  the  striking  and  goading  of  beasts 

by  which  they  were  curbed  and  trained. 
By  a  noble  evolution  the  term  came  to  describe  the 
process  of  disciplining  and  training  men  in  war, 
religion  and  life  (Isa  2  3;  Hos  10  11;  Mic  4  2). 
As  teaching  is  both  a  condition  and  an  accompani- 
ment of  disciplining,  the  word  often  means  simply 
"to  teach,"  "to  inform"  (2  Ch  17  7;  Ps  71  17; 
Prov  6  13).  The  glory  of  teaching  was  its  har- 
mony with  the  will  of  God,  its  source  in  God's 
authority,  and  its  purpose  to  secure  spiritual 
obedience  (Dt  4  5.14;  31  12.13). 

!"TP  ,  yardh,  "to  cast":  The  teaching  idea  from 
which  the  law  was  derived  is  expressed  by  a  vb. 

which  means  "to  throw,"  "to  cast  as 

2.  Law  an  arrow  or  lot."     It  is  also  used  of 

thrusting  the  hand  forth  to  point  out 
or  show  clearly  (Gen  46  28;  Ex  16  25).  The 
original  idea  is  easily  changed  into  an  educational 
conception,  since  the  teacher  puts  forth  new  ideas 
and  facts  as  a  sower  casts  seed  into  the  ground. 
But  the  process  of  teaching  was  not  considered 
external  and  mechanical  but  internal  and  vital 
(Ex  35  34.35;  2  Ch  6  27).  The  nominal  form  is 
the  usual  word  for  law,  human  and  Divine,  general 
and  specific  (Dt  4  8;  Ps  19  8;  Prov  1  8).  The 
following  are  suggestive  phrases:  "the  book  of  the 
law"  (Dt  28  61;  2  K  22  8);  "the  book  of  the  law 
of  Moses"  (Josh  8  31;  2  K  14  6);  "the  book  of 
the  law  of  God"  (Josh  24  26);  "the  book  of  the 
law  of  Jch"  (2  Ch  17  9).  Thus  even  in  the  days 
of  Joshua  there  was  in  the  possession  of  the  religious 
teachers  a  book  of  the  Law  of  the  Lord  as  given  by 
Moses.  This  recorded  revelation  and  legislation 
continued  to  be  the  Divine  norm  and  ultimate 
authority  for  priest,  king  and  people  (2  Ch  23  11; 
Neh  8  1-3). 

"PS  ,  bin,  "to  separate":  The  word  meaning  "to 
separate,"  "to  distinguish,"  is  often  used  in  a 
causative  sense  to  signify  "to  teach."  The  idea 
of  teaching  was  not  an  aggregation  of  facts 
bodily  transferred  like  merchandise.  Real  learning 


followed    genuine    teaching.      This   word    suggests 

a  sound  psychological  basis  for  a  good  pedagogy. 

The    function    of    teaching    might    be 

3.  Discern-  exercised   with   reference;  to  the  solu- 
ment  tion  of   difficult   problems,   the   inter- 
pretation of  God's  will,  or  the  manner 

of  a  godly  life   (Dnl  8   16. 26:    Neh  8  7-!);    Ps  119 
34). 

b?i&,  sdkhal,  "to  be  wise":    The  vb.  from  which 

the    various    nominal    forms    for    "wisdom"    are 

derived     means     "to    look     at,"     "to 

4.  Wisdom    behold,"  "to  view,"  and  in  the  causa- 

tive stern  describes  the  process  by 
which  one  is  enabled  to  sec  for  himself  what  had 
never  before  entered  his  physical  or  intellectual 
field  of  consciousness.  The  noun  indicates  a  wise 
person  or  sage  whose  mission  is  to  instruct  others 
in  the  ways  of  the  Lord  (Prov  16  23;  21  1 1 ;  and 
often  in  the  Wisdom  literature).  In  Dnl  12  3 
we  read:  "They  that  are  wise  [in  "the  teachers"] 
shall  shine  as  the  brightness  of  the  firmament." 
_  77; ,  yadha\  "to  see"  (cf  otda,  oida}:  This  vb. 
lit.  means  "to  see"  and  consequently  "to  perceive," 
"to  know,"  "to  come  to  know,"  and 
6.  Knowl-  "cause  to  know  or  teach."  It  de- 
edge  scribes  the  act  of  knowing  as  both 
progressive  and  completed.  The  caus- 
ative conception  signifies  achievement  in  the  sphere 
of  instruction.  It  is  used  of  the  interpretation  and 
application  by  Moses  of  the  principles  of  the  law 
of  God  (Ex  18  16.20),  of  the  elucidation  of  life's 
problems  by  the  sages  (Prov  9  9;  22  19),  and  of 
constant  Providential  guidance  in  the  way  of  life 
(Ps  16  11). 

"1HT ,   zuhar,  "to  shine":    This  verbal  root  sig- 
nifies "to  shine,"  and  when  applied  to  the  intellec- 
tual sphere   indicates   the  function  of 

6.  Illumi-      teaching    to    be   one   of    illumination. 
nation  Ignorance   is  darkness,    knowledge   is 

light.  Moses  was  to  teach  the  people 
statutes  and  laws,  or  to  enlighten  them  on  the 
principles  and  precepts  of  God's  revelation  (Ex  18 
20).  The  service  rendered  by  the  teachers — priests, 
Levites  and  fathers — sent  forth  by  Jehoshaphat, 
was  one  of  illumination  in  the  twofold  sense  of 
instruction  and  admonition  (2  Ch  19  8-10). 

nS?"l ,   rd'ah,  "to   see":    The   literal   meaning  of 
this  vb.  is  "to  see,"  and  the  nominal  form  is  the 

ancient  name  for  prophet  or  authori- 

7.  Vision        tative   teacher   who   was   expected   to 

have  a  clear  vision  of  spiritual  realities, 

the  will  of  God,  the  need  of  man  and  the  way  of  life 

(1  S  9  9;    1  Ch  9  22;    2  Ch  16  7  f ;    Isa  30  10). 

&O:  ,  nabha',  "to  boil  up":    The  most  significant 

word  for  "prophet"  is  derived  from  the  vb.  which 

means  "to  boil  up  or  forth  like  a  foun- 

8.  Inspi-        tain,"     and     consequently     to     pour 
ration  forth  words  under  the  impelling  power 

of  the  Spirit  of  God.  The  Hebrews 
used  the  passive  forms  of  the  vb.  because  they 
considered  the  thoughts  and  words  of  the  prophets 
due  not  to  personal  ability  but  to  Divine  influence. 
The  utterances  of  the  prophets  were  characterized 
by  instruction,  admonition,  persuasion  and  predic- 
tion (Dt  18  15-22;  Kzk  33  1-20). 

n7"1 ,  ra*ah,  "to  feed  a  flock":  The  name  "shep- 
herd," so  precious  in  both  the  OT  and  the  NT, 

comes  from  a  vb.  meaning  "to  feed," 

9.  Nourish-  hence  to  protect  and  care  for  out  of  a 
ment  sense     of    devotion,     ownership    and 

responsibility.  It  is  employed  with 
reference  to  civil  rulers  in  their  positions  of  trust 
(2  S  5  2;  Jer  23  2);  with  reference  to  teachers 
of  virtue  and  wisdom  (Prov  10  21;  Eccl  12  11); 
and  preeminently  with  reference  to  God  as  the 
great  Shepherd  of  His  chosen  people  (Ps  23  1; 


Teach, Teaching 
Teat 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2922 


Hos  4  1(5).  E/k  34  presents  an  arraignment  of  the 
unfaithful  shepherds  or  civil  rulers;  1's  23  reveals 
,Ieh  as  the  Shepherd  of  true  believers,  and  Ju  10 
shows  how  religious  teachers  are  shepherds  under 
Jesus  the  Good  Shepherd. 

II.  NT  Terms.  —  Further  light  is  thrown  upon 
religious  teaching  in  Bible,  times  by  a  brief  view  of 
the  leading  educational  terms  found  in  the  NT. 

SiodcTKw,  (li'luxko,  "to  teach":  The  usual  word 
for  "teach"  in  the.  NT  signifies  either  to  hold  a  dis- 
course with  others  in  order  to  instruct 

1.  Instruc-     them,    or   to   deliver    a    didactic    dis- 
tion  course  where  there  may  not  be  direct 

personal  and  verbal  participation. 
In  the  former  sense  it  describes  the  interlocutory 
method,  the  interplay  of  the  ideas  and  words  be- 
tween pupils  and  teachers,  and  in  the  latter  use  it 
refers  to  the  more  formal  monologues  designed  osp. 
to  give  information  (Alt  4  23;  chs  5-7;  13  36  f; 
.In  6  59;  1  (\>r  4  17;  1  Tim  2  12).  A  teacher  is 
one  who  performs  the  function  or  fills  the  office  of 
instruction.  Ability  and  fitness  for  the,  work  are, 
required  (Rom  2  20;  He  5  12).  The  title  refers  to 
Jewish  teachers  (Jn  1  38),  to, John  the  Baptist  (Lk 
3  12),  to  Jesus  (.In  3  2;  8  4,  and  often),  to  Paul 
(1  Tim  2  7;  2  Tim  1  11),  and  to  instructors  in  the 
early  church  (Acts  13  1;  Pom  12  7;  1  Cor  12  2S). 
Teaching,  like  preaching,  was  an  integral  part  of 
the  work  of  an  apostle  (Mt  28  19;  Mk  16  15; 
Eph  41). 

p.avOdvw.    manthdno,    "to    learn":     The    central 
thought  of  teaching  is  causing  one  to  learn.     Teach- 
ing   and    learning    are    not    scholastic 

2.  Acqui-        but     dynamic,     and     imply     personal 
sition  relationship    and    activity    in    the   ac- 
quisition    of     knowledge     (Alt   11  29; 

28  19;    Acts  14  21).     There  were  three  concentric, 
circles  of  disciples  in  the  t  hue  of  ( )ur  Lord:   learners, 
pupils,    superficial    followers,     the    multitude    (Ju 
6  (if));     the  body  of  believers  who  accepted   Jesus 
as  their  Master  (Mt  10  42);    and  the  Twelve  Dis- 
ciples whom  Jesus  also  called  apostles  (Alt   10  2). 
•waparWrifjiL^  paratUhemi,  "to  place  beside":    The 
present  at  ive  idea  involved  in  the  teaching  process 
is  intimately  associated  with  theprin- 

3.  Presen-     ciple  of  adaptation.      When  it  is  stated 
tation  that  Christ  put  forth  parables  unto  the 

people,  the  sacred  writer  employs  the 
figure  of  placing  alongside!  of,  or  near  one,  hence 
before  him  in  an  accessible  position.  The  food  or 
teaching  should  be  sound,  or  hygienic,  and  adapted 
to  the  capacit  v  and  development,  of  the.  recipient, 
(Alt  13  24;  Mk  8  6;  Acts  16  34;  1  Cor  10  27; 
2  Tim  4  3;  He  5  12-14). 

Siep/urivetiw,   <li<Tincn<'i<o,    "to   interpret":    In   the 
walk    to    Emmaus,    Christ    explained    to    the   per- 
plexed   disciples    the    ()T    Scriptures 

4.  Eluci-         in    reference    to    Himself.     The    work 
dation  of  interpreter  is  to  make  truth   clear 

and  to  effect  the  edification  of  the 
hearer  (Lk  24  27;  1  Cor  12  30;  14  5.13.27). 

tKTiOri/ju.,    cklitti('mi;    "to    place    out":     The   vb. 

lit.   means  "to  set  or  place  out,"  and  signifies  to 

bring  out.  the  latent  and  secret  ideas 

5.  Expo-        of  a  literary  passage  or  a  system  of 
sition  thought  and   life.     Thus   Peter  inter- 
preted his  vision,  Aquila  and  Priscilla 

unfolded  truth  to  Apollos,  and  Paul  expounded 
the  gospel  in  Rome  (Acts  11  4;  18/20;  28  23). 
True  teaching  is  an  educational  exposition. 

Tt-po<f>r)TTjs,   proclitics,   "One  who   speaks   for":     A 

prophet  was  a  man  who  spoke  forth  a  message  from 

God  to  the  people.      He   might  deal 

6.  Author-     with  past  failures  and  achievements, 
ity  present,  privileges  and  responsibilities, 

or  fut  ure  doom  and  glory.  He  received 
his  message  and  authority  from  God  (Dt  18  15-22; 


Isa  6).     The  word  refers  to  OT  teachers  (Mt  5  12), 
to  John  the  Baptist  (Alt  21  2(5),  to  Jesus  the  Mes- 
siah (Acts  3  25),  and  to  special  speakers  in  the  Apos- 
tolic age  (Alt   10  41;   Acts  13  1;   1  Cor  14  29.37). 
•jroi.fj.riv,    pohnf'ii;    "a    shepherd":     The    word    for 
"shepherd"  signifies  one  who  tends  a  flock,  and  by 
analogy  a  person  who  gives  mental  and 

7.  Care  spiritual  nourishment,  and  guards  and 

supports  those  under  his  care  (Alt  9 
36;  Jn  10  2.1(5;  I  Pet  2  25;  Eph  4  11).  Love  is 
a  fundamental  prerequisite  to  the  exercise  of  the 
shepherding  function  (Jn  21  15-18).  The  duties 
arc;  to  be  discharged  with  great,  diligence  and  in 
humble  recognition  of  the  gifts  and  appointment  of 
the  Holy  Spirit  (Acts  20  28). 

eTTt'crKOTTos,  ejAskopos,  "an  overseer" :    The  bishop 
or   overseer   was   to    feed    and    protect   the   blood- 
bought    church   of   God  (Acts  20  28). 

8.  Super-       Among   the   various    qualifications   of 
vision  the  religious  overseers  was  an  aptitude 

for  teaching  (1  Tim  3  2;  Tit  1  9).  The 
Lord  is  preeminently  shepherd  and  bishop  (1  Pet 
2  25). 

///.  OT  History. — In  the  Jewish  home  the  teach- 
ing of  the  law  of  the  Lord  was  primarily  incumbent 

upon   the  parents.      The  teaching  was 

1.  In  the        to  be  diligent,    the  conversation   reli- 
Home  gious,  and  the  atmosphere  wholesome 

(Dt  6  7-9). 

Provision  was  also  made  for  public,  instruction  in 

the  law  of  God  (Dt   31   12.13).     This  is  a  compact 

summary    of    early    Heb    teaching    in 

2.  In  Public  regard  to  the  extent  of  patronage,  the 

substance  of  instruction,  and  the 
purpose  of  the  process.  Samuel  the  judge  and 
prophet  recognized  that  his  duty  was  fundamentally 
to  pray  to  God  for  his  people  and  to  teach  the 
nation  "the  good  and  1  he  right  way"  (1  S  12  23). 
The  glory  and  prosperity  of  Judah  under  Jehosha- 
phat  were  due  in  large  measure  to  the  emphasis  he 
laid  upon  religious  instruction  as  the  basis  of  na- 
tional character  and  stability.  His  peripatetic 
Bible  school  faculty  consisted  of  five  princes,  nine 
Levites  and  two  priests  who  effected  a  moral  and 
religious  transformation,  for  "they  taught  in  Judah, 
having  the  book  of  the,  law  of  Jell  with  them" 
(2  Ch  17  7-9).  The  most  striking  illustration 
we,  have  of  public  religious  instruction  in  the  OT 
is  found  in  Neh  8.  Ezra  the  priest  and  scribe  was 
superintendent,  and  had  an  ample  corps  of  teachers 
to  instruct  the  multitude  of  men,  women  and 
children  eager  to  hear.  Prayer  created  a  devotional 
atmosphere.  The  reading  was  distinct,  the  inter- 
pretation correct  and  intelligible.  There  was  real 
teaching  because;  the  people  were  made  to  under- 
stand and  obey  the  law.  In  Neh  9  and  10  we 
have  recorded  the  spiritual,  ceremonial,  social  and 
civic  effects  of  ancient  religious  instruction. 

IV.  Extra-Biblical  History. — The  captivity  gave  a 
mighty  impulse  to  teaching.  In  far-away  Babylon  the 
Jews,  'deprived  of  the  privilege;  and  inspiration  of  the 
temple,  established  the  synagogue  as  an  institutional 
renter  of  worship  and  instruction.  During  the  latter 
part  of  the  inter-Bib,  period,  religious  teaching  was 
carried  on  In  the  synagogue  and  attendance  was  com- 
pulsory, education  in  the  Law  being  considered  the  funda- 
ment al  element  of  national  security  (Deutseh,  Literary 
Ri  mains,  23;  Edersheim,  Life  and  Times  of  Jesus  the 
Messiah,  I,  230).  The  Bible  text  alone  was  taught 
those  from  5  to  10  years  of  age,  the  first  lessons  being 
taken  from  Lev  (Taylor,  Sai/ini/s  of  the  Jewish  Fathers, 
111).  From  10  to  lo  years  of  age  the  pupil  was  taught 
the  substance  of  the  Mish  or  unwritten  tradition,  and 
accorded  the  privilege  of  entering  into  the  discussions 
of  the  Mish.  which  constitute  the  Gemara  (Edersheim, 
op.  cit.,  I,  232).  Selections  of  Scriptures  like  the  shema' 
(Dt  6  4-0)  were  made  for  study,  and  lesson  helps  were 
adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  pupils  (Ginsburg,  art. 
"Education"  in  (':/<••  <>}"  Mil*.  Lit.).  The  significance  of 
the  teaching  idea  among  the  Jews  is  indicated  by  numer- 
ous expressions  for  school  (art.  "Education,  ('//<•.  of 
Uib.  Lit.)  and  the  prevalence  of  the  synagogues,  there 


292.'} 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Teach,  Teaching 

Te;it 


"i-iiiK  perhaps  -ISO  in  Jems  in  (he  limr  (if  Christ,  (II  nr. 
llfh.  I,  7S).  The  pupil  was  not,  expected  to  he  a  passive 
hearer  hut  an  active  participant  (.!'<.,  vi.ii;  Taylor 
Sni/ in</x  of  the.  Jruiinh  Fathers.  lir>f).  (Ireat  emphasis 
was  laid  upon  audible  repetition  and  exaet,  memory,  yet, 
the  teacher  was  culpable,  if  the  pupil  failed  to  under- 
stand the  prescribed  lesson  (Hamburger,  UK,  II,  (172, 
(>74).  The  pupil  was  regarded  as  the  child  of  his  teacher 
(Nr/ nlu-ilhri •  n  19),  which  is  a  familiar  idea  in  the  NT.  Tim 
faithful  teacher  was  considered  destined  to  occupy  a  hiKh 
seat  amoiiK  the  ancients  (l)nl  12  :i).  The  scribes  wen; 
secretaries  or  copyists  of  the  sacred  Law,  and  would  thus 
acquire  at  least  an  accurate;  verbal  knowledge  of  its 
contents,  ^guite  naturally  they  would  become  religious 
teachers  (Xeh  8  -1).  Hence  also  their  prominence  in  the 

LiTuiiATi-KK. — Art.  "Torah,"  ./<•//•  Enr  (cf  arts.  "Tal- 
mud" and  "  Education");  Trumbull,  Yule  Lectures  on  the 
Sunday-School,  3-4:0;  Hamburger,  UK. 

V.  NT  History.— In  the  XT  wo  find  that  Jesus 
is  preeminently  the  teacher,  though  He  wa.s  also 
])reaeher  and  healer  (Mt  4  23).  His 
1.  Christ's  Sermon  on  the  Mount  \vas  match- 
Life  less  teaching.  He  opened  His  mouth 
and  "taught"  (Alt  5  2).  The  titles 
"teacher,"  "master,"  "rabbi"  all  indicate  the  most 
prominent  function  of  His  active  ministry.  Even  at 
the  age _ of  12  years  He  revealed  His  wisdom  and 
affinity  in  the  midst  of  the  rabbis  or  Jewish  teachers 
of  the  Law  in  the  temple  (Lk  2  41  f).  In  the 
power  of  the  Spirit  He  taught  so  that  all  recognized 
His  authority  (Lk  4  14.15;  Alt  7  2!)).  He  ex- 
plained to  the  disciples  in  private  what  He  taught 
the  people  in  public  (Alt  13  36).  His  principles 
and  methods  of  teaching  constitute  the  standard  by 
which  all  true  pedagogy  is  measured,  and  the  ideal 
toward  which  all  subsequent  teachers  have  toiled 
with  only  partial  success  (Alt  7  2S.29;  Jn  1  40; 
3  2;  6  4G).  In  the  Commission  as  recorded  in 
Mt  28  18.19.20  we  have  the  work  of  Christianity 
presented  in  educational  terms.  We  find  the 
supreme  authority  (ver  18),  the  comprehensive 
content— the  evangelistic,  the  ceremonial,  the 
educational,  the  practical  (vs  19  and  20a),  and 
the  inspiring  promise  (ver  206). 

The  emphasis  laid  upon  teaching  in  the  Apostolic 
age   is  a  natural  consequence  of  the  need  of   the 
people   and   the   commands   of   Jesus. 
2.  Apostolic  The  practice  of  the  apostles  is  quite 
Labors  uniform.      They      preached      or      pro- 

claimed, but  they  also  expounded. 
In  Jems  the  converts  continued  in  the  apostles' 
teaching  (Acts  2  42j;  and  daily  in  the  temple  and 
in  the  homes  of  the  people  the  teaching  was  cor- 
related with  preaching  (Acts  5  42).  In  Antioch, 
i  he  center  of  foreign  missionary  operations,  Paul, 
Silas,  Barnabas  and  many  others  taught  the  word 
of  the  Lord  (Acts  15  35).  In  Thessalonica,  Paul 
and  Silas  for  three  weeks  reasoned  with  the  people 
out  of  the  Scriptures,  opening  up  the  sacred  secrets 
and  proving  to  all  candid  minds  that  Jesus  was  the 
Alessiah  (Acts  17  1-3).  In  Beroea,  instruction  in 
the  synagogue  was  followed  by  private  study,  and 
as  a  result  many  believed  in  the  Lord  (Acts  17  10- 
15).  In  Athens,  Paul  discussed  and  explained  the 
things  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  both  in  the  synagogue 
3  t  a  week  and  in  the  market  daily  (Acts  17  16  f). 
In  Corinth,  Paul  having  been  denied  the  use  of  the 
synagogue  taught  the  word  of  the  Lord  for  a  year 
and  a  half  in  the  house  of  Justus,  and  thus  laid  the 
foundation  for  a  great  church  (Acts  18  1-11). 
In  Ephesus,  Paul  taught  for  2  years  in  the  school  of 
Tyrannus,  disputing  and  persuading  the  people 
concerning  the  kingdom  of  God  (Acts  19  8-10).  In 
Home,  Paul  expounded  the  word,  testified  to  its 
truth,  and  persuaded  men  to  accept  the  gospel 
(Acts  28  23).  His  method  of  work  in  Rome  under 
trying  limitations  is  described  as  cordially  receiving 
the  people  and  preaching  the  kingdom  of  God,  and 
"teaching  the  things  concerning  the  •  Lord  Jesus 
Christ"  (Acts  28  30.31). 


The  office  of  teacher  is  fundamentally  related 
to  the  creation  of  a  missionary  atmosphere  (Acts 

13  1).  Religious  teaching  is  necessary 
3.  General  to  the  development  of  Christian 
Considera-  character  and  the  highest  efficiency  in 
tions  service  (1  Cor  12  4  11.2S.2!);  Eph  4 

11.12).  The  qualificat  ion  of  the  pastor 
is  vitally  connected  with  the  teaching  fund  ion  of  the 
church.  lie  is  to  hold  the  truth,  or  to  be  orthodox 
(Tit  1  9),  to  apply  the  truth,  or  to  be  practical  (Tit 
1  9),  to  study  the  truth,  or  to  be  informed  (1  Tim  4 
13.15),  to  teach  the  truth,  or  to  be  equipped  or  able 
and  tactful  (2  Tim  2  2;  1  Tim  3  2),  to  live  the 
truth,  or  to  be  faithful  in  all  things  (2  Tim  2  2; 
1  Tim  4  16).  The  teaching  function  of  Chris- 
tianity in  the  2d  cent,  became  strictly  official,  there- 
by losing  much  of  its  elasticity.  A  popular  manual 
for  the  guidance  of  religious  teachers  was  styled 
the  "Teaching  of  tlrj  Twelve"  (see  DIDACHK). 
The  writings  of  the  Apostolic;  Fathers  give  valuable 
information  in  regard  to  the  exercise;  of  the  gifts  of 
teaching  in  the  early  centuries  (Did.,  xiii.2;  xv.l,  2; 
Barn  18;  Ign.  Eph  31).  See  CATKCHIST;  EDUCA- 
TION; Si'i RITUAL  GIFTS.  BYUO.V  H.  DuAIioxT 

TEAR  BOTTLE.     See  next  article. 

TEARS,  terz  (H"^" ,  diirfah;  SdiKpua,  tMlcnia): 
In  the  instances  recorded  in  Scripture  weeping  is 
more;  frequently  associated  with  mental  distress 
than  with  physical  pain.  Eastern  peoples  show 
none  of  the  restraint  of  emotion  in  lament  at  JOTI 
which  is  characteristic;  of  modern  Occidentals,  and 
there  are  many  records  of  this  manifestation  of  woe, 
even  among  men  accustomed  to  hardships  and 
warfare,  such  as  David  and  his  soldiers.  The  flow 
of  tears  is  the  evidence  of  sorrow  in  prospect 
of  approaching  death  in  Ps  39  12;  2  K  20  5;  Isa 
38  5,  and  of  the  suffering  consequent  on  oppression 
(EccI  4  1),  or  defeat  in  battle  (Isa  16  9),  or  hope- 
less remorse,  as  with  Esau  (He  12  17,  probably 
referring  to  Gen  27  34).  The  Psalmist,  describes 
his  condition  of  distress  metaphorically  as  feeding 
on  the  bread  of  tears  and  having  tears  to  drink 
(Ps  80  5;  42  3).  Tears  in  the  figurative  sense  of 
anxiety  for  the  future  are  referred  to  in  Ps  126  5; 
Alk  9  24  AV,  and  the  tears  accompanying  penitence 
in  Lk  7  38  (44  RVm).  Jeremiah  is  sometimes 
called  the  "weeping  prophet"  on  account  of  his 
expressive  hyperbole  in  Jer  9  1.1S  (see  also  14  7; 
31  16;  Lam  1  2;  2  11.18  and  ten  other  passages). 
Conversely  the  deliverance  from  grief  or  anxiety  is 
described  as  the  wiping  away  of  tears  (Ps  116  8' 
Isa  25  8;  Rev  7  17;  21  4). 

The  expression  in  Ps  56  8  in  which  the  Psalmist 
desires  that  God  should  remember  his  wanderings 
and  his  tears  has  given  rise  to  a  curious  mistake. 
There  is  a  paronomasia  in  the  passage  as  he  pleads 
that  God  should  record  his  wanderings  (Heb  nodh} 
and  that  his  tears  should  be  put  into  God's  no'dh 
(receptacle  or  bottle).  No'dh  lit.  means  a  leathern 
or  skin  bottle,  as  is  evident  from  Ps  119  83  and 
Josh  9  4-13.  The  request  is  obviously  figurative, 
as  there  is  no  evidence  that  then;  was  even  a  sym- 
bolical collect  ion  of  tears  into  a  bottle  in  any  Sem 
funeral  ritual,  and  there  is  no  foundation  whatever 
for  the  modern  identification  of  the  long,  narrow 
perfume  jars  so  frequently  found  in  late  Jewish 
and  Gr-Jewish  graves,  as  "lachrymatories"  or  tear 
bottles.  See  BOTTLE.  AI.KX.  AIACALISTKH 

TEAT,  tet  ("IT ,  Klutdh  [Isa  32  12],  "H  ,  dailh  [Ezk 
23  3.21]):  In  all  these  passages  the  HV  has  re- 
placed the  word  by  "breast"  or  "bosom,"  both  of 
which  occasionally  stand  in  poetical  parallelism. 
The  above  passages  in  Ezk  are  to  be  understood 
figuratively  of  the  inclination  of  Israel  to  connive 


Tebah 

Tell  el-Amarna 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2924 


at,  and  take  part  in,  (ho  idolatry  of  their  neighbors. 
To  "smite  upon  the  breasts"  (Isa  32  12,  where 
the  AV  translates  wrongly  "lament  for  the  teats") 
means  "to  mourn  and  grieve  in  the  ostentatious 
way  of  oriental  women."  .See  PAP. 

TEBAH,  te'ba  (rntp  ,  tcbhah):    A  son  of  Nahor, 
the  brother  of  Abraham  (On  22  24). 


TEBALIAH,  teb-a-li'a,  te-bal'ya  prPtniJ  ,  t'- 
bhalt/dhil,  "Yahwch  hath  dipped,''  i.e.  "purified";  B, 
TapXcu,  Tdl>lal,  A,  TapeXias,  Tnhdias,  Luc.,  Ta^X, 
TitlH-tl):  A  Merarite  gatekeeper  (1  Ch  26  11).  The 
name  should  perhaps  read  irP3"ILD  ,  tubfuydhu,  "Yah- 
weh  is  good"  (possibly  from  "lt"P!TYC2  ,  misread  ~52I3 
"in"1,  tbhalydhii).  See  TOHIJAH. 

TEBETH,  te-beth',  te'beth  (TOt:  ,  U'bhclh):  The 
tenth  month  of  the  Jewish  year,  corresponding  to 
January  (Est  2  1(5).  See  CALKNDAK. 

TEHAPHNEHES,   <P-haf'nMiez.     See  TAIIPAX- 


TEHINNAH,  te-hin'a  (H2nP  ,  fhinnah,  ''suppli- 
cation"; B,  0ai(j.av,  Thdinidn,  A,  Oavci,  That  id, 
Luc.,  ©eevvd,  Tln'cnnn):  "The  father  of  the  city 
Nahash"  (1  Ch  4  12).  Tin;  verse  seems  to  refer- 
to  some  post  -exilic  Jewish  settlement,  but  is  utterly 
obscure. 

TEIL,  tel,  TREE:  AV  Isa  6  13  =  RV  TEHEIUNTH 
(q.v.). 

TEKEL,  te'kel  (b^P  ,  fkcl).  See  MK\K,  MKXF., 
TEKKI.,  ('I'HAKSIN. 


TEKOA,  te-kd'a  ("pP  ,  lrkd"-\  or 
V  kef  ah;  ©«KU)€,  Tin-hoc  ;  AV  Tekoah;  one  of  David's 
mighty  men,  "Ira  the  son  of  Ikkesh," 
1.  Scripture  is  called  a  Tekoite,  t^-kd'lt  pTipR  , 
References  t'ko'l;  2  S  23  2(5;  1  Ch  11  28;  27  <)]; 
the  "woman  of  Tekoa"  [2  S  14  2]  is  in 
Ileb  n-'JHpP,,  f'-ko'llh;  in  Neh  3  5  mention  is 
made  of  certain  Tekoites,  te"-kd'Its  [D'Tlpfl  , 
I'krflm],  who  repaired  part  of  the  walls  of 
Jerus):  From  here  came  the  "wise  woman" 
brought  by  Joab  to  try  and  make  a  reconciliation 
between  David  and  Absalom  (2  8  14  2  f)  ;  it  was 
one  of  the  cities  fortified  by  Rehoboam  (2  Ch  11  (5; 
Jos,  Ant,  VIII,  ix,  1).  The  wilderness  of  Tekoa  is 
mentioned  (2  Ch  20  20)  as  the  extreme  edge  of 
the  inhabited  area;  here  Jehoshaphat  took  counsel 
before  advancing  into  the  wilderness  of  Judaea 
to  confront  the  Ammonites  and  Moabites.  In  Jer 
6  1,  we  read,  "Blow  the  trumpet  in  Tekoa  and  raise 
a  signal  in  Beth-haccherim"  —  because  of  the  enemy 
advancing  from  the  N.  Amos  (1  1),  one  of  the 
"herdsmen  of  Tekoa,"  was  born  here. 

In  Josh  15  59  (addition  to  verse  in  LXX  only) 
Tekoa  occurs  at  the  beginning  of  the  list  of  11  addi- 
tional cities  of  Judah  —  a  list  which  includes  Beth- 
lehem, Ain  Kairem  and  Bettir  —  which  are  omitted 
in  the  Hebrew.  A  Tekoa  is  mentioned  as  a  son  of 
Ashhur  (I  Ch  2  24;  45). 

Jonathan  Maccabaeus  and  his  brother  Rimon  fled 
from  the  vengeance  of  Bacchides  "into  the  wilder- 
ness of  Thecoe  [RV  "Tekoah"]  and  pitched  their 
tents  [RV  "encamped"]  by  the  water  of  the  pool 
Asphar"  (1  Mace  9  33). 

Jos  calls  Tekoa  a  village  in  his  day  (Vita,  75), 
as  does  Jerome  who  describes  it  as  12  miles  from 
Jerus  and  visible  from  Bethlehem;  he  says  the 
tomb  of  the  prophet  Amos  was  there  (Conini.  on 
Jeremiah,  VI,  1).  "There  was,"  he  says,  "no  village 


beyond  Tekoa  in  the  direction  of  the  wilderness." 

The  good  quality  of  its  oil  and  honey  is  praised 

by  other  writers.     In  the  6th  cent,  a 

2.  Later         monastery,  Laura  Nova,  was  founded 
History  there  by  St.  Saba.     In  the  crusading 

times  Tekoa  was  visited  by  pious 
pilgrims  wishing  to  see  the  tomb  of  Amos,  and  some 
of  the  Christian  inhabitants  assisted  the  Crusaders 
in  the  first  siege  of  Jerus.  In  1138  the  place  was 
pillaged  by  a  party  of  Turks  from  the  10.  of  the  Jor- 
dan, and  since  that  time  the  site  appears  to  have 
lain  desolate  and  ruined,  although  even  in  the  14th 
cent  .  the  tomb  of  Amos  was  still  shown. 

The  site  is  without  doubt  the  Kh.  Tekii*a,  a 
very  extensive  ruin,  covering  4  or  5  acres,  about 

ti  miles  S.  of  Bethlehem  and  10  miles 

3.  The  from  Jerus,  near  the  Frank  Mountain 
Site  Tehtfa  and  on  the  road  to  Mm  Jidi/.     The 

remains  on  the  surface  are  chiefly  of 
large  cut  stone  and  are  all,  apparently,  mediaeval. 
Fragments  of  pillars  and  bases  of  good  hard  lime- 
stone occur  on  the  top  of  the  hill,  and  there  is  an 
octagonal  font  of  rose-red  limestone;  it  is  clear  that, 
the  church  once  stood  there.  There  are  many  tombs 
and  cisterns  in  the  neighborhood  of  a  much  earlier 
period.  A  spring  is  said  to  exist  somewhere  on  the 
site,  but  if  so  it  is  buried  out  of  sight.  There  is  a 
reference  in  the  "Life  of  Saladin"  (Bahaoddenus), 
to  the  "river  of  Tekoa,"  from  which  Richard  Coeur 
de  Lion  and  his  army  drank,  3  miles  from  Jerus: 
this  may  refer  to  the  *Arub  extension  of  the  "low- 
level  aqueduct"  which  passes  through  a  long  tunnel 
under  the  tiatd  Tek.u*a  and  may  have  been  thought 
by  some  to  rise  there. 

The  open  fields  around  Tcku*a  arc  attractive  and 
well  suited  for  olive  trees  (which  have  now  dis- 
appeared), and  there  are  extensive  grazing-lands. 
The  neighborhood,  even  the  "wilderness"  to  the  E., 
is  full  of  the  flocks  of  wandering  Bedouin.  From  the 
site,  Bethlehem,  the  Mount  of  Olives  and  Xd>i 
Xamuel  (Mi/pah)  are  all  visible;  to  the  N.E.  is  a 
peep  of  the  Jordan  valley  near  Jericho  and  of  the 
mountains  of  (iilead,  but  most  of  the  eastern  out- 
look is  cut  off  by  rising  ground  (I'EF,  III,  314, 
368,  Sh  XXI).  E.  W.  G.  MASTERMAN 


TEL-ABIB,  tel-i!'bib  (T>2X  *n  ,  tcl  'abhlbh;  Vulg 

ad  accrvum  novarum  frugum):    As  written  in  Ileb, 

Tel-abib    means  "hill  of   barley-ears" 

1.  The  and  is  mentioned  in  Ezk  3  15  as  the 
Name  and     place    to    which    the    prophet    went, 
Its  Meaning  and  where  he  found  Jewish  captives 

"that  dwelt  by  the  river  Chebar." 
That  Tel-abib  is  written,  as  Fried.  Delitzseh  sug- 
gests, for  Til  Abubi,  "Mound  of  the  Flood"  (which 
may  have  been  a  not  uncommon  village-name 
in  Babylonia)  is  uncertain.  Moreover,  if  the  cap- 
tives themselves  were  the  authors  of  the  name,  it 
is  more  likely  to  have  been  in  the  Ileb  language. 
LXX,  which  has  mctedros,  "passing  on  high," 
referring  to  the  manner  in  which  the  prophet 
reached  Tel-abib,  must  have  had  a  different  Heb 
reading. 

If  the  Chebar  be  the  nar  Kabari,  as  suggested  by 

Hilprecht,  Tel-abib  must  have  been  situated  some- 

where in   the  neighborhood  of  Niffer, 

2.  The  the  city  identified  with  the  Calneh  of 
Position         Gen  10  10.     The  tablet  mentioning  the 
of  the              river  Kabaru  refers  to  grain  (barley?) 
Settlement    seemingly  sent  by  boat  from  Niffer  in 

Nisan  of  the  21st  year  of  Artaxerxes  I. 
Being  a  navigable  waterway,  this  was  probably  a 
good  trading-center. 

LITERATURE.  —  See  Hilprecht  and  Clay,  Business  Docu- 
ments af  .\furashu  Sons  ("Pennsylvania  Exp.,"  Vol  IX, 
28);  Clay,  Liyht  on  the  OT  from  Babel,  405. 

T.  G.  PINCHES 


2925 


TEL-HARSHA,  tel-har'sha  (XflnrTSn,  tel-har- 
sha):  In  Ezr  2  .59;  Neh  7  til  (AV  in  hitler,  "Tel- 
haresha,"  tel-ha-re'sha,  -har'S-sha),  ;i  Bab  town  or 
village  from  which  Jews  who  could  not  show  their 
lineage  returned  with  Zerubbabel.  The  site  is  un- 
known. In  1  Esd  6  36  it  is  called  "Thelersas." 

TELAH,  te'la  (Plbn  ,  t<-1<ih;  B,  0d\ees,  Tltnkt-s, 
A,  0d\€,  Tln'ilf,  Luc.,  QdXa,  Tfidla):  An  Ephraimite 
(1  Ch  7  I2f)). 

TELAIM,  1e--la'im  (^xblpn,  ha-tflalm,  "the 
young  laml)s";  «v  FaX-yaXois,  en  (lalyuloix):  The 
place  where  Saul  "summoned  the  people,  and 
numbered  them"  (1  S  15  4)  before  his  attack  on 
Agag,  king  <>f  the  Amalekites.  Some  authorities 
read  "Telam"  for  "Havilah"  in  ver  7  and  also 
find  this  name  in  1  S  27  8  instead  of  Dbiyx?  , 
inc'dla/n.  In  LXX  and  Jos  (Ant,  VI,  vii,  2)  Gilgal 
occurs  instead  of  Telaim,  on  what  ground  is 
not  known.  Probably  Telaim  is  identical  with 
TKLKM  (q.v.),  though  the  former  may  have  been 
the  name  of  a  Bedouin  tribe  inhabiting  the  latter- 
district.  Cf  Dhalldm  Arabs  now  found  S.  of  Tell 
d-Milh.  E.  W.  G.  MASTKUMAN 


TELASSAR,  tft-las'ar    pEXn  ,    Pln'mar    [2    K 

19   12],    "ITSbP,    rlaxsdr  [Isa  37   12];  A,  OaXacrcrdp, 

Thalassdr,     B,     0aeo-0ev,      Tliacslhen; 

1.  The  Vulg  Thclassar,  Thalassar):  This  city, 
Name  and     which  is  referred  to  by  Sennacherib's 
Its  Meaning  messengers  to  Hezekiah,   is  stated  by 

them  to  have  been  inhabited  by  the 
"children  of  Eden."  It  had  been  captured  by  the 
Assyr  king's  forefathers,  from  whose  hands  its  gods 
had  been  unable  to  save  it.  Notwithstanding  the 
vocalization,  the  name  is  generally  rendered  "Hill  of 
Asshur,"  the  chief  god  of  the  Assyrians,  but  "Hill 
of  Assar,"  or  A  sari  (a  name  of  the  Bab  Merodach), 
would  probably  be  better. 

As  Telassar  was  inhabited  by  the  "children  of 
Eden,"  and  is  mentioned  with  Gozan,  Haran,  and 

Rezeph,   in   Western  Mesopotamia,  it 

2.  Sugges-    has  been  suggested  that  it  lay  in  Bit- 
tions  as  to     Adini,  "the  House  of  Adinu,"  or  Bet  li- 
the Geo-        cden,  in  the  same  direction,   between 
graphical       the  Euphrates  and  the  Belikh.    A  place 
Position         named   Til-Assuri,    however,    is  twice 

mentioned  by  Tiglath-pileser  IV  (Ann., 
176;  Slab-Inscr.,  II,  23),  and  from  these  passages  it 
would  seem  to  have  lain  near  enough  to  the  Assyr 
border  to  be  annexed.  The  king  states  that  he 
made  there  holy  sacrifices  to  Merodach,  whose;  seat 
it  was.  It  was  inhabited  by  Babylonians  (whose; 
home  was  the  Edinu  or  "plain";  see  EDEN).  Esar- 
haddon,  Sennacherib's  son,  who  likewise  conquered 
the  place,  writes  the  name  Til-Asurri,  and  states 
that  the  people  of  Mihranu  called  it  Pitdnu.  Its 
inhabitants,  he  says,  were  people  of  Barnaku.  If 
this  be  Bit  Burnaki  in  Elam,  extending  from  the 
boundary  of  Rdsu  (see  ROSH),  which  was  ravaged 
by  Sennacherib  (Bab  Chron.,  Ill,  10  ff),  Til-Assuri 
probably  lay  near  the  western  border  of  Elam. 
Should  this  identification  be  the  true  one,  the 
Heb  form  t'lassar  would  seem  to  be  more  correct 
than  the  Assyr  Til-Assuri  (-Asitrri),  which  latter 
may  have  been  due  to  the  popular  idea  that  the 
second  element  was  the  name  of  the  national  god 
Assur.  See  Fr.  Delitzsch,  Wo  lag  das  Paradies? 
264.  T.  G.  PINCHES 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       Tebah 

Tell  el-Amarna 

the  same  place  and  also  to  be  identical  with  the 
Telaim  and  Telam  of  Saul  (see  TKLAIM).  It  is 
probably  the  same  as  the  Talmia  of  the  Talrn 
(Neubauer,  (,'eog.  du  Talm,  121).  The  site  has  not 
been  recovered. 

TELEM  ^=bt2  ,  M(.nt;  LXX  B,  TiXr,^,  Telem, 
A,TV\\T)fj.,  Tclleni):  One  of  three  "porters"  who  had 
married  foreign  wives  (Ezr  10  21),  his  name  appear- 
ing as  "Tolbanes"  in  1  Esd  9  2.r>;  perhaps  the  same 
as  TALMON  (q.v.). 

TELL.     See  TALI;. 

TELL  EL-AMARNA,  tel-el-a-miir'na,  TABLETS: 

I.     INTRODUCTION 

1.  Name 

2.  Discovery 

:5.    Physical  Character 
II.     EPIGRAPHICAL  VALUE 

1.    Peculiar  Cuneiform  Script 
!.    Method  of  Writing  Proper  Names 
III.     PHILOLOGICAL   VALUK 

1.  Knowledge  of  Amorite,  Ilittite  and   Mitannian 
Tongues 

2.  Persistence  of  Canaanite  Names  to  the  Present 
Time 

3.  Verification  of  Biblical  Statements   eoncernin" 
"the  Language  of  Canaan" 

1\  .     GEOGRAPHICAL  VALUK 

1.  Political  and  Ethnological  Lines  and  Locutions 

2.  Verification    of    Biblical    and    Egyptian    Geo- 
graphical Notices 

3.  Confirmation   of    General   Evidential   Value  of 
Ancient  Geographical  Notes  of  Bible  Lands 

V.     HISTORICAL  VALUE 

1.  Revolutionary   Change   of   Opinion   concerning 
Canaanite  Civilization  in   Patriarchal  Times 

2.  Anomalous    Historical    Situation    Revealed    bv 
Use  of  Cuneiform  Script 

3.  Extensive    Diplomatic    Correspondence    of   the 
Age 

4.  Unsolved  Problem  of  the  llubiri 
LITERATURE 

A  collection  of  about  3/50  inscribe!  clay  tablets 
from  Egypt,  but  written  in  the  cuneiform  writing, 
being  part  of  the  royal  archives  of  Amenophis  III 
and  Amenophis  IV,  kings  of  the  XVIlIth  Egvp 
Dynasty  about  1480  to  1400  BC.  Some  of  the 
tablets  are  broken  and  there  is  a  little  uncertainty 
concerning  the  exact  number  of  separate  letters. 
81  are  in  the  British  Museum  =  BM;  100  in  the 
New  Babylonian  and  Assyrian  Museum,  Berlin  = 
B;  60  in  the  Cairo  Museum  =  C;  20  at  Oxford  =  (); 
the  remainder,  20  or  more,  are  in  other  museums 
or  in  private  collections. 

/.  Introduction. —  The  name,  Tell  d-Amarna, 
"the  hill  Arnarna,"  is  the  modern  name  of  ancient 
ruins  about  midway  between  Mem- 

1.  Name        phis  and  Luxor  in  Egypt.     The  ruins 

mark  the  site  of  the  ancient  city  Khut 
Aten,  which  Amenophis  IV  built  in  order  to  escape 
the  predominant  influence  of  the  old  religion  of 
Egypt  represented  by  the  priesthood  at  Thebes, 
and  to  establish  a  new  cult,  the  worship  of  Aten, 
the  sun's  disk. 

In  1887  a  peasant  woman,  digging  in  the  ruins  of 
Tell  el-Amarna  for  the  dust  of  ancient  buildings 
with    which    to    fertilize    her    garden, 

2.  Dis-  found  tablets,  a  portion  of  the  royal 
covery  archives.     She  filled   her  basket  with 

tablets  and  went  home.  How  many 
she  had  already  pulverized  and  grown  into  leek's 
and  cucumbers  and  melons  will  never  be  known. 
This  time  someone's  curiosity  was  aroused,  and  a 
native  dealer  secured  the  tablets.  Knowledge  of 
the  "find"  reached  Rev.  Chauncey  Murch,  D.D., 
an  American  missionary  stationed  at  Luxor,  who, 
suspecting  the  importance  of  the  tablets,  called  the 
attention  of  cuneiform  scholars  to  them.  Then 
began  a  short  but  intense  and  bitter  contest  between 
representatives  of  various  museums  on  the  one 
hand,  eager  for  scientific  material,  and  native  deal- 


TELEM,  te'lem  (OVa  ,  telem;  T&e|i,  Telem): 
A  city  in  the  Negeb  "toward  the  border  of  Edom," 
belonging  to  Judah  (Josh  15  24).  In  LXX  of  2  S 
3  12  Abner  is  said  to  send  messengers  to  David  at 
Thelam  (GcuAd/x,  Thaildm);  this  would  seem  to  be 


Tell  el-Amarna        THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


292(5 


ITS,  on  the  other  hand,  rapacious  at  the  prospect  of 
the  fabulous  price  the  curious  tablets  might  bring. 
The  contest  resulted  in  the  destruction  of  some  of 
the  tablets  by  ignorant,  natives  and  the  final  dis- 
tribution of  the  remainder  and  of  the  broken  frag- 
ments, as  noted  at  the  beginning  of  this  art.  (see 
also  Budge,  Hist-  of  Ki/ypt,  IV,  ISO).  After  the  dis- 
covery of  the  tablets  the  site  of  the  ancient  city  was 
excavated  by  Professor  Petrio  in  1S91-92  (Tdl 
d-A>ntint(i;  cf  also  Baedeker,  Eyy/rt). 

The  physical  character  of  the  tablets  is  worthy  of 
somo  notice.  They  are  clay  tablets.  Nearly  all  are 

brick' tablets,  i.e.  rectangular,  flat  tablets 
3  Phvsical  varying  in  si/e  from  '2X2$  in.  to  Hi  X9 
T,'  J  in.,  inscribed  on  both  sides  and  sometimes 

Character  U[)(m  the  edges.  One  tablet  is  of  a  convex 

form  (B  1(501).  The  clay  used  in  the  tab- 
lets also  varies  much.  The  tablets  of  the  royal  corre- 
spondence! from  Babylonia  and  one;  tablet  fre>m  Mitanni 
(B  15:?)  are-  of  tine'  Bab  clay.  The  Syrian  and  Pales- 
tinian correspondence  is  in  one  or  twei  instances  e>f  clay 
which  was  probably  imported  from  Babylonia  for  cor- 
respondence, but  for  the  most  part  these'  table-Is  are'  upon 
the  clay  of  the  country  and  they  show  decided  differences 
among  themselves  in  color  and  texture:  in  some1  instances 
the  clay  is  sanely  and  decidedly  inferior.  A  number  e>f 
tablets  have  reel  points,  a  kind  e»f  punctuation  for  mark- 
ing the,  separation  into  words,  probably  inserted  by  the 
Egyp  translator  of  the'  letters  at  the-  court  e>f  the  Pharaoh. 
These  points  were  fe>r  the  purpose  e>f  assisting  in  the 
reading.  They  do  now  -assist  the  reading  very  much. 
Se>me;  tablets  also  show  the;  hieroglyphic  marks  which 
the  Egyp  scribe  put  em  them  when  tiling  them  among 
the  archives.  The  writing  also  is  varied.  Some  e>f  the) 
tablets  from  Pal  (B  H2S,  330,  :«1)  are-  crudely  written. 
Others  e>f  the  letters,  as  in  the;  royal  correspondence  from 
Babylonia,  are  beautifully  written.  These  latter  (B 
149-52)  seem  to  have  be'e'ii  written  in  a  totally  elilrewnt 
way  from  the  others;  those;  from  Western  Asia  appear 
to  have  been  written  with  the;  stylus  lielel  as  we-  ce>m- 
monly  hold  a  pen,  but  the  royal  letters  from  Babylonia 
were  written  by  turning  the  point.  e>f  the  stylus  to  the; 
left,  and  the  other  end  to  the  right  over  the  second  joint 
of  the  first  finger. 

The  results  of  the  discovery  of  the  Am  Tab  have 
been  far-reaching,  and  there  are  indications  of  still 
other  benefits  which  may  yet  accrue  from  them. 
The  discovery  of  them  shares  with  the  discovery  of 
the-  (Ml  the  distinction  of  the  first  place  among  Bib. 
discoveries  of  the  past  half-century. 

//.  Epigraphical     Value. — The    peculiar    use    of 

the  cuneiform  method  of  writing  in  these  tablets 

in  order  to  adapt   it  to  the  require- 

1.  Peculiar    mentsof  a  strange  land  having  a  native 
Cuneiform     tongue,  and  the  demands  made'  upon  it 
Script  for  the  representation  of  proper  names 

of  a  foreign  tongue,  have  already 
furnished  the  basis  for  the  opinion  that  the  same 
cuneiform  method  of  writing  was  employed  origi- 
nally in  other  documents,  esp.  some  portions  of  the 
Bible  and  much  material  feir  Egyp  governmental 
reports.  It  is  not,  improbable  that  by  means  of 
such  data  furnished  by  the  tablets  definite  clues 
may  be  obtained  te>  the  method  of  writing,  and  by 
that,  also  approximately  the  time  of  the  compo- 
sition, of  the  literary  sources  that  were  drawn  upon 
in  the  composition  of  the  Pent,  and  even  of  the 
Pent  itself  (cf  esp.  Naville,  Archaeology  of  the  Bible). 
Most  of  the  letters  were  probably  written  by 
Egyp  officers  or,  more  frequently,  by  scribes  in  the 

employ   of  native   appointees  of  the 

2.  Proper      Egyp  government.     The  writing  of  so 
Names  many  proper  names  by  these  scribes 

in  the  cuneiform  script  has  thrown  a 
flood  of  light  upon  the  spelling  of  Canaanite  names 
by  Egyp  scribes  in  the  hieroglyphic  inscriptions  of 
Egypt.  It  is  evident  now  that  certainly  some, 
perhaps  most,  of  these  scribes  worked  from  cunei- 
form lists  (Muller,  Egyptolixjical  Researches,  190ti, 
40).  As  the  system  of  representation  of  Palestinian 
names  by  Egyp  scribes  becomes  thus  better  under- 
stood, the  identification  of  more  and  more  of  the 
places  in  Pal  named  in  the  Egyp  inscriptions  be- 
comes possible.  Every  such  identification  makes 


more  nearly  perfect  the  identification  of  Bib.  places, 
the  first  and  most  important  item  in  historical 
evidence. 

///.  Philological   Value. — Xo  other  literary  dis- 
covery,  indeed,  not  all  the  others  together,   have 
afforded  so  much  light  upon  philologi- 

1.  Amorite,   cal  problems  in  patriarchal  Pal  as  the 
Hittite  and    Am    Tab.     Something   is    now   really 
Mitannian     definitely  known  of  "the  language  of 
Tongues         Canaan,"  the  speech  of  the  people  of 

patriarchal  days  in  Pal.  The  remark- 
able persistence  of  old  Canaanite  words  and  names 
and  forms  of  speech  of  these  tablets  down  to  the 
present  time  makes  it  plain  that  the  peasant  speech 
of  today  is  the  lineal  descendant  of  that  of  Abra- 
ham's day.  The  letters  are  in  the  Bab  tongue 
modified  by  contact  with  the  speech  of  the  country, 
a  kind  of  early  Aram.  (Conder,  The,  Tdl  Ainarnn 
Tnhlrls,  X;  Dhorme,  ''La  languc  de  Canaan,"  Revue 
];il>li<iiie,  Juillet,  1913,  3W).  There  are  also  fre- 
quent Canaanite  words  inserted  as  glosses  to  explain 
the  Bab  words  (Dhorme,  op.  cit.). 

The  facts  evinced  by  the  persistence  of  the  early 

Canaanite  speech  (cf  1,  above)  down  through  all  the 

centuries  to  the  peasant  speech  of  Pal 

2.  Persist-     of  today  furnishes  a  verification  of  the 
ence  of  Bib.    reference    to    the    "language    of 
Canaanite      Canaan"    (Isa  19  IS).     That  peasant 
Names           speech  is,  as  it  manifestly  has  always 

been  since,  patriarchal  times,  a  Sem 
tongue.  Now,  even  so  adventurous  a  work  as  a 
grammar  of  the  ancient  Canaanite  language  has  been 
attempted,  based  almost  entirely  upon  the  material 
furnished  by  the  Am  Tab  (Dhorme,  op.  cit.),  in 
which  the  speech  of  Pal  in  patriarchal  days  is  de- 
scribed as  "ancient  Canaanite  or  Hebrew." 

Some  more  specific  knowledge  is  also  supplied  by 
the   Am    Tab    concerning   the    Amorite    language 

through  the  many  Amorite  names  and 

3.  Verifica-  the  occasional  explanations   given  in 
tion  of  Amorite  words   (cf  esp.  the  50  letters 
Biblical           of  Ribadda),  and  some   knowledge  of 
Statements    Hittite  (Letter  of  Tarkhundara;  Con- 
der, The  Tdl  Amorna  Tablets,  22/5  f), 

concerning  the  Mitannian  tongue  (B  li]',i,  190,  191, 
2M).  One  other  tablet  (B  342)  is  in  an  unknown 
tongue. 

IV.  Geographical  Value. — There    was    a    very 
wide  international  horizon  in  the  days  of  the  cor- 
respondence contained  in  the  Am  Tab, 

1.  Interna-    a  horizon  that  inclosed  Egypt,  Baby- 
tional  Ionia,  Canaan,  Mitanni  and  the  land 
Horizon          of  the  Ilittites;   but  the  more  definite 

geographical  information  supplied  by 
the  tablets  is  limited  almost  entirely  to  the  great 
Hvrian  and  Canaanite  coast  land.  There  is  differ- 
ence of  opinion  concerning  the  identification  of  a 
few  of  the  places  mentioned,  but  about  90  have 
been  identified  with  reasonable  certainty. 

It  is  possible  now  to  trace  the  course  of  the  mili- 
tary operations  mentioned   in  the  Am   Tab  with 

almost    as    much    satisfaction    as    the 

2.  Biblical     course  of  a  modern  military  campaign, 
Verification  and  there  is  much  verification  also  of 

Bib.  and  Egyp  geographical  notices. 
The   identification   of   such   a   large   number   of 
places  and  the  ability  thus  given  to  trace  the  course 
of  historical  movements  in  that  remote 

3.  Geo-          age  are  a  remarkable  testimony  to  the 
graphical        historical  value  of  ancient  records  of 
Confirma-      that  part  of  the_  world,  for  accuracy 
tion  concerning  place  is  of  first  importance 

in  historical  records. 

V.  Historical  Value. — The  Am  Tab  furnish  an 
amount  of  historical  material  about  equal  in  bulk 
to  one-half  of  the  Pent.     While  much  of  this  bears 
more  particularly  upon  general  history  of  the  an- 


>!>27 


Till']   I! XTER  \\TIOXAf,  STANDARD   BIBLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tell  el-Amarna 


cienf   Orient,  there  is  scarcely  ;inv  parl   of  it   which 
docs  not,  direct  iy  or  indirectly  supply   information 
which   ])arallcls  some  phase  of   Bil>.   liistory.      It    is 
not    certain   thai    any   individual  mentioned   in   the 
Bible  is  men)  ioned  in  these  tablets,  yet  it  is  possible, 
many    think   it   well  established,   tliat,  many  of  the 
persons  and  events  of  the  conquest  period  are  men- 
tioned  (cf  4  []|,  below).      There  is  also  much    tha 
reflects   the   civilization   of   times  still   imperfect  I' 
understood,  reveals   historical   events   hitherto   un 
known,  or  but,  little  known,  and  gives  manv  side 
lights  upon  the,  movements  of  nations  and  people: 
of  whom  t  hen;  is  something  said  in  the  Bible. 

_  A  revolutionary  change  of  opinion  concerning  tin 
civilization  of  patriarchal  Pal  has  taken  place.  .It 
was  formerly  the  view  of  all  classes  ol 
1.  Canaan-  scholars,  from  (he  most  conservat  i . , 
ite  Civili-  on  the  one  hand,  to  the  most  radical, 
zation  on  the  other,  that  there  was  a  ver\ 

crude  state  of  civili/aiion  in  Pal  in  the 
patriarchal  age,  and  this  entirely  independent  of, 
and  indeed  prior  to,  any  demand  made  by  the  evo- 
lutionary theory  of  Israel's  liistory.  Abraham  was 
pictured  as  a  pioneer  from  a  land  of  culture,  to  a  dis- 
tant dark  place  in  the  world,  and  his  descendants 
down  to  the  descent  into  Egypt  were  thought  to 
have  battled  with  semi-barbarous  conditions,  and 
to  have  returned  to  conquer  such  a  land  and  bring 
civili/.at  ion  into  it .  All  this  opinion  is  now  changed, 
primarily  by  the  information  contained  in  the  Am 
Tab  and  secondarily  by  incidental  hints  from 
EgyP  and  Bab  inscriptions  now  seen  to  support  the 
high  stage  of  civilization  revealed  in  the  Am  Tab 
(see  ARCHAEOLOGY  AND  CRITICISM).  The  tablets 
make  mention  of  "  'capital  cities,'  'provincial  cities,' 
'fortresses/  Mowns,'  and  'villages' with  'camps'  and 
Ila/ors  (or  inclosures);  while  irrigation  of  gardens 
is  also  noticed,  and  the  papyrus  grown  at  (iebal,  as 
well  as  copper,  tin,  gold,  silver,  agate,  money  (not, 
of  course,  coins)  and  precious  objects  of  many  kinds, 
mulberries,  olives,  corn,  ships  and  chariots''  (fon- 
der, op.  cit.,  4). 

The  account  of  a  bride's  marriage  portion  from  Mitan- 
ni  reveals  conditions  farther  north :  "Two  horses  and  a 
chariot  plated  with  gold  and  silver,  and  adorned  with 
precious  stones.  The  harness  of  the  horses  was  adorned 
in  like  manner.  Two  camel  litters  appear  to  he  next 
noticed,  and  apparently  variegated  garments  worked 
with  gold,  and  embroidered  zones  and  shawls.  These 
are  followed  by  lists  of  precious  stones,  and  a  horse's 
saddle  adorned  with  gold  eagles.  A  necklace  of  solid 
gold  and  gems,  a  bracelet  of  iron  gilt,  an  anklet  .if  solid 
gold,  and  other  gold  objects  follow;  and  apparently 
cloths,  and  silver  objects,  and  vases  of  copper  or  bronze. 
An  object  of  jade  or  jasper  and  leaves  of  gold  . 
live  gems  of  'stone  of  the  great  light'  (probably  dia- 
monds) follow,  with  ornaments  for  the  head  and  feet  and 
a  number  of  bronze  objects  and  harness  for  chariots" 
(ib,  188-89).  The  record  of  Thot limes  HI  concernin- 
booty  brought  from  Pal  fully  confirms  this  representa- 
tion of  the  tablets  (Birch,  Jt,'rnr>ln  of  tin:  J'nut,  1st  ser 
II.  .'!.->  -52;  cf  Sayce,  Archaeology  of  the  Curuiform  In- 
scnptions,  150-57). 

The  Bab  inscriptions  show  that  Abraham  was  a 
part  of  an  emigration  movement  from  the  homeland 
to  a  frontier  province,  having  the  same  laws  and 
much  of  the  same  culture  (Lyon,  American  Ori- 
ental Society  Journal,  XXV,  254;  Barton,  American 
Philosophical  Proceedings,  LII,no.  20!),  April,  ]<)1H, 
1U7;  Kyle,  Deciding  Voice  of  I  lie  ]\f  ointments  in  11  ib. 
Criticism,  eh  xv).  The  Egyp  sculptured  pictures 
make  clear  that  the  civilization  of  Pal  in  patriarchal 
times  was  fully  equal  to  that  of  Egypt  (cf  Petrie, 
Dexhasht !/,  pi.  IV j. 

That  these  things  of  elegance  and  skill  are  not 
merely  the  trappings  of  ''barbaric  splendor''  is 
manifest  from  the  revelation  which  the  Am  Tab 
make  of  ethnic  movements  and  of  influences  at 
work  from  t  he  great  nat  ions  on  eit  her  side  of  Canaan, 
making  it  impossible  that  the  land  could  have  been, 
at  that  period,  other  than  a  place  of  advanced  civi- 


lization. Nearly  all  the  tablets  furnish  most  un- 
equivocal evidence  that  Egypt  had  imperial  rule 
over  the  land  through  a  provincial  government 
Which  was  at  the  time  falling  into  decay,  while  the 
cuneiform  method  of  writing  used  in  i|l(.  tablets  by 
such  a /variety  of  persons,  in  such  hi-h  and  low 
estate,  implying  thus  long-established  literary  cul- 
ture and  a  general  diffusion  of  the  knowledge  of  a 
most  difficult  system  of  writing,  makes  it  clear  that 
the  civilization  of  Babylonia  had  been  \\cll  estab- 
lished before  the  political  power  of  Egvpt  came 
to  displace  that  of  Babylonia, 

The  displacement  of  Bab  political  power  in  Pal 
just  mentioned  (1,  above)  points  at  once  to  a 
most  remarkable  historical  situation 
2.  Anoma-  revealed  by  the  Am  Tab,  i.e.  oflicial 
lous  His-  Egyp  correspondence  between  the  out- 
toncal  lying  province  of  Canaan  and  the  im- 

Mtuation  perial  government  at  home,  carried  on, 
not  in  the  language  and  script,  of 
Kgypt,  but  m  the  script  of  Babylonia  and  in  a  lan- 
guage that  is  a  modified  Babylonian.  This  marks 
one  step  in  the  great,  age-long  conflict  between  the 
East  and  the  West,  between  Babylonia  and  Egypt' 
with  Canaan  as  the  football  of  empires.  It  reveals— 
what  the  Bab  inscriptions  confirm— the  lon"-pre- 
cedmg  occupation  of  Canaan  bv  Babylonia,  con- 
tinuing down  to  the  beginning  of  patriarchal  times 
which  had  so  given  Canaan  a  Bab  si  amp  that  the 
subsequent  political  occupation  of  the  land  bv 
Egypt  under  Thothmes  III  had  not  yet  been  able  to 
efface  the  old  stamp  or  give  a  new  impression. 

The  extensive  diplomatic  correspondence  between 
nations  so  widHy  separated  as  Kgypt  on  the  W.  and 
Q  n;~i~  Babylonia  on  the  K.,  Mitatmi  on  the  N., 
6.  Dlplo-  and  the  ITittite  eountrv  on  the  V  \V  is 
matic  also  shown  by  the  Am  Tab.  In  addition 

Corresnond-  5?       e  lar§e  number  <>f  letters   between 
Canaan  and  Egypt,  then-  are  (,uite  a  num- 
ence  ber  of  these  royal  tablets:   letters  from  Ka- 

dashman  Bell,  or  Kallima-Siri  (BM  297X4) 
and  Burna-burias  of  Babylonia  (B  M9  51')  \.ssur-uballidh 
of  Assyria  and  Dusratta  of  Mitanni  (II  150  191-!)''  •>•}•$') 
etc.  _  There  seems  at  first  sight  a  little  pettiness 'about 
this  international  correspondence  that  is  almost  childish 
since  so  much  of  it  is  occupied  with  the;  marriage 'of 
princesses  and  the  payment  of  dowers,  and  the  exchange 
of  international I  gifts ,  and  privileges  (Budge,  Hist  o/ 
Egypt,  I\  ,  1S9-90).  But  one  might  be  surprised  at  the 
amount  Of  such  things  in  the  private,  correspondence  of 
kings  of  the  present  day,  if  access  to  it  could  be  gained 
The  grasping  selfishness  also  revealed  in  these  tablets 
by  the  constant  cry  for  gold  is,  after  all,  but  a  less  diplo- 
matic and  more  frank  expression  of  the  commercial  ha>'- 
glmg  between  nations  of  today  for  advantages  and  con- 

The  subject  of  greatest  historical  interest  in  Bib. 
matters  presented  by  the  Am  Tab  is  the  great,  un- 
solved problem  of  the  IJabiri.  l"n- 
4.  Problem  solved  it  is,  for  while  every  writer  on 
of  the  the  subject  has  a  very  decided  opinion 

Habiri  of  his  own,  all  must  admit  that  a  prob- 

lem is  not  solved  upon  which  there  is 
men  wide  and  radical  difference  of  opinion  among 
Capable  scholars,  and  that  not  running  along  easy 
mes  of  cleavage,  but  dividing  indiscriminately  all 
Masses  of  scholars. 

(1)  One    view    very    early    advanced    and    still 

Wrongly  held  by  some  (Conder,  op.  cit.,  138-44)  is 

hat  HaUri  is  to  be  read   \\biri,   and  means  the 

Ifebrews.     It  is  pointed  out   that   the  letters  refer- 

•ing  to  these  people  are  from  Central  and  Southern 

:'al,  that  the    Uabiri  had  some  relation  with  Mt. 

Seir,  that  they  are  represented  as  contemporaneous 

vith  Japhia  king  of  Ce/er,  .Jabin  king  of  llaxor,  and 

irobably  Adoni/edek  king  of  Jems,  contemporaries 

f  Joshua,  and  that  certain  incidental  movements  of 

srael  and  of  the  people  of  Pal  mentioned  in  the 

iible  are  also  mentioned  or  assumed  in  the  tablets 

X'onder,  op.  cit.,  i:>(,)-f>l).     In  reply  to  these  argu- 

nents  for  the  identification  of  i\\e)jabiri  with  the 

Hebrews    under   Joshua,    it    may    bo   noted    that, 


Tell  el-Amarna 
Tempest 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2928 


although  the  letters  which  speak  of  the  IJabiri  are 
all  from  Central  or  Southern  1'al,  they  belong  to 
very  nearly  tin;  same  time  as  the  very  numerous 
letters  concerning  the  extensive  wars  in  the  X. 
The  (list  inct  separut ion  of  the  one  set  of  letters  from 
the  other  is  rather  arbitrary  and  so  creates  an  ap- 
pearance which  haw  little  or  no  existence  in  fact. 
Probably  these  southern  letters  refer  to  the  same 
disturbances  spreading  from  the  X.  toward  the  S., 
which  is  fatal  to  the  theory  that  the  IJahiri  are'the 
Hebrews  under  Joshua,  for  these  latter  came  in 
from  the  S.E.  The  reference  to  Seir  is  obscure  and 
seems  rather  to  locate  that  place  in  the  direction  of 
Carmel  (Conder.  op.  oil.,  14")).  The  mention  of 
Japhia  king  of  Gezer,  and  Jabin  king  of  Ha/or,  does 
not  signify  much,  for  these  names  may  be  titles,  or 
there  may  have  been  many  kings,  in  sequence,  of 
the' same  name.  Concerning  Adonizedek,  it  isdifli- 
cult  to  believe  that  this  reading  of  the  name  of  the 
king  of  Jems  would  ever  have  been  thought  of,  ex- 
cept for  the  desire  to  identify  the  IJahiri  with  the 
Hebrews  under  Joshua.  This  name  Adonizedek  is 
only  made  out,  with  much  uncertainty,  by  the  un- 
usual method  of  translating  the  king's  name  instead 
of  transliterating  it.  If  the  name  was  Adonizedek, 
why  did  not  the  scribe  write  it  so,  instead  of  trans- 
lating it  for  the  Pharaoh  into  an  entirely  different 
name  because  of  its  meaning?  The1  seeming  cor- 
respondences between  the  letters  and  the  account 
of  the  conquest  in  the  Bible  lose  much  of  their  sig- 
nificance when  the  greater  probabilities  raised  in  the 
names  and  the  course  of  the  wars  are  taken  away. 

(2)  Against   the  view   that    the  IJahiri  were  the 
Hebrews  of  the  Bible  may  be  cited  not  only  these 
discrepancies  in  the  evidence  presented  for  that  view 
(cf  [1],  above),  but   also  the  very  strong  evidence 
from  Egypt  that  the  Exodus  took  place  in  the  Ram- 
esside  dynasties,  thus  not   earlier  than  the  XlXth 
Dynasty  and  probably  under  Merenptah,  the  suc- 
cessor of  Rameses  II.     The  name  Rameses  for  one 
of  the  store  cities  could  hardly  have  occurred  before 
the  Ramesside  kings.     The  positive  declaration  of 
Rameses  II:    "I  built  Pit  horn,''  against  which  there 
is  no  evidence  whatever,   and   the   coincidence  be- 
tween the  Israel  tablet   of   Merenptah   (Petrie,  N/.r 
Temple*  at  Tin  hex,  2X,  pis.  XI II -XIV)  and  the  Bib. 
record  of  the  Exodus,   which   makes  the   ">th  year 
under    Merenptah   to   be   the    ">th   year   of    Moses' 
leadership   (see  Mosics),  make  it  very  difficult,  in- 
deed   seemingly   impossible,    to  accept    the  IJahiri 
as  the  Hebrews  of  the  conquest. 

(3)  Another  view  concerning  the  IJabiri,  strongly 
urged  by  some  (Sayce,  The  Hitjlnr  Critieixm  ami  the 
Ve-nlict  of  the  Mini  HUH  >ttx,   17")f'f),  is  that   they  are 
Ifahiri ,  not  \\biri,  and  that  the  name  means  "con- 
federates," and  was  not  a  personal  or  tribal  name 
at  all.     The  certainty  that   there  was,  just  a  little 
before  this  time,  an  alliance  in  conspiracy  among 
the  Amorites  and  others,  as  revealed  in  the  tablets 
for  the  region  farther  north,  gives  much  color  to  this 
view.     This  opinion  also  relieves  the  chronological 
difficulties  which   beset    the  view  that    the  IJahiri 
were  the  Bib.  Hebrews  (cf  [21,  above),  but  it  is  con- 
tended that  this  reading  does  violence1  to  the  text. 

(4)  Another  most  ingenious  view  is  advanced  by 
Jeremias  (The  ()T  in  the  Lit/hi  of  the  Ancient  East, 
341),   that   the  name  is    IJahiri,   that    "the  name 
answers  to  the  sounds  of  'Hebrews,'  ami  that  the 
names  are  ident  ical,"  but  that  this  name  in  the  Am 
Tab  is  not  a  proper  name  at  all,  but  a  descriptive 
word,  as  when  we  read  of  "Abraham  the  Hebrew," 
i.e.  the  "stranger"  or  "immigrant."     Thus  IJabiri 
would   be   "Hebrews,"  i.e.   "strangers"  or  "immi- 
grants"  (see  HKKKIUTKS;    HKHKKW),  but  the  later 
question    of    the    identification    of  these  with   the 
Hebrews  of  the  Bible  is  still  an  open  question. 

(">)  It  may  be  that  the  final  solution  of  the  prob- 


lem presented  by  the  IJabiri  will  be  found  in  the 
direction  indicated  by  combining  the  view  that 
sees  in  them  only  "strangers"  with  the  view  that 
sees  them  to  be  "confederates."  There  were  un- 
doubtedly "confederates"  in  conspiracy  against 
Egypt  in  the  time  of  the  Am  'fab.  The  govern- 
ment of  Egypt  did  not  come  successfully  to  the 
relief  of  the  beleaguered  province,  but  weakly 
yielded.  During  the  time  between  the  writing  of 
the  tablets  and  the  days  of  Merenptah  and  the 
building  of  Pit  horn  no  great  strong  government 
from  either  Egypt  or  Babylonia  or  the  X.  was  estab- 
lished in  Pal.  At  the  time  of  the  conquest  there 
is  constant  reference  made  to  "the  Hittites  and  the 
Amorites  and  the  Perizzites,"  etc.  Why  are  they 
so  constantly  mentioned  as  a  group,  unless  they 
were  iii  some  sense  "confederates"?  It  is  not  im- 
possible, indeed  it  is  probable,  that  these  Hiitites 
and  Amorites  and  Perizzites,  etc,  Palestinian 
tribes  having  some  kind  of  loose  confederacy  in  the 
days  of  the  conquest,  represent  the  last  state  of 
the  "confederates,"  the  conspirators,  who  began 
operations  in  the  Amorite  war  against  the  imperial 
Egyp  government  recorded  in  the  Am  Tab,  and, 
in  the  correspondence  from  the  S.,  were  called  in 
those  days  IJahiri,  i.e.  "strangers"  or  "immigrants." 
For  the  final  decision  on  the  problem  of  the  IJahiri 
and  the  full  elucidation  of  many  things  in  the  Am 
Tab  we  must  await  further  study  of  the  tablets  by 
expert  cuneiform  scholars,  and  esp.  further  dis- 
covery in  contemporary  history. 

The  Jerus  letters  of  the  southern  correspondence 
present  something  of  much  importance  which  does 
not  bear  at  all  upon  the  problem  of  the  IJabiri. 
The  frequently  recurring  title  of  the  king  of  Jerus, 
"It  was  not  mv  father,  it  was  not  my  mother,  who 
established  me  in  this  position"  (Budge,  Ilixt  of 
E</i/i>t,  IV,  231-3;)),  seems  to  throw  light,  upon  the 
strange  description  given  of  MELCHIZEDEK  (q.v.), 
the  king  of  Jerus  in  the  days  of  Abraham.  The 
meaning  here  clearly  is  that  the  crown  was  not 
hereditary,  but  went  by  appointment,  the  Pharaoh 
of  Egypt  having  the  appointing  power.  Thus  the 
king  as  such  had  no  ancestor  and  no  descendant, 
thus  furnishing  the  peculiar  characteristics  made 
use  of  to  describe  the  character  of  the  Messiah's 
priesthood  in  the  Ep.  to  the  He  (7  3). 

LiTKK\TrnE.  —  fonder,  The  Tiil  A  mama  Tablets; 
Knudt/.on,  I>i>  Kl-  A  mnrnn-Tnfi'ln,  in  Heinrich's  Vor- 
deraitiatische  Bibliothek,  II;  Petrie,  Tell  <  7  Amarna  Tal>- 
lit*;  idem.  ,S//rm  and  E(/iji>t  from  the  Till  <l  Atnurna 
Letters;  idem,  lfi.it  of  Ki/i/iit;  Jeremias,  The  OT  in  the 
Liijlit  of  the  Ancient  East.  ,  ,  _.  „ 

M.  G.  KYLE 

TEL-MELAH,  tel-me'Ia  (nbtt'bn  ,  tel-melah, 
"hill  of  salt"):  A  Bab  town  mentioned  in  Ezr  2 
">'.);  Xeh  7  01  with  Tel-harsha  and  Cherub  (see 
TKL-H.VHSIIA).  It  possibly  lay  on  the  low  salt 
tract  near  the  Pers  Gulf  .  In  1  Esd  5  30  it  is  called 
"Thermeleth." 


TEMA,  te'ma  (X'2'1P  ,  tema',  "south  country"; 
Oaufidv,  Thaimdn):  The*  name  of  a  son  of  Ishmael 
(Gen  25  15;  1  Ch  1  30),  of  the  tribe  descended 
from  him  (Jer  25  23),  and  of  the  place  where 
they  dwelt  (Job  6  19;  Isa  21  14).  This  last  was 
a  locality  in  Arabia  which  probably  corresponds  to 
the  modern  Teimd'  (or  Taytnu'  [see  Doughty, 
Arabia  Dcxerta,  I,  2S  ">!'),  an  oasis  which  lies  about 
200  miles  X.  of  el-Meilina,  and  some  40  miles  S.  of 
Duinal  el-.Ianilal  (Dumah),  now  known  as  cl-Jnuf. 
It  is  on  the  ancient  caravan  road  connecting 
the  Pers  Gulf  with  the  Gulf  of  Akaba;  and 
doubtless  the  people  took  a  share  in  the  carrying 
trade  (Job  6  19).  The  wells  of  the  oasis  still  at  tract 
the  wanderers  from  the  parched  wastes  (Isa  21  14). 
Doughty  (loc.  cit.)  describes  the  ruins  of  the  old  city 
wall,  some  3  miles  in  circuit.  An  Aram,  stele  recently 


2920 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


discovered,  belonging  to  the  Oth  cent.  BC,  .shows 
the  influence  of  Assyr  ;irt  .  The  place  is  mentioned 
in  the  cuneiform  inscriptions  (Schrader,  KA  T2,  149). 

W.  EWINK 

TEMAH,  te'ma  (PrCP  ,  temnh;  A  B,  0e>a,  Thema, 
Luc.,  0€nad,  Thctnnn;  Neh  7  55,  B,  TH(ia6,  //r- 
inatfi,  A,  0T|(ia)  Thenin,  Luc.,  0€p.ad,  The  mad;  AV 
Thamah)  :  The  family  name  of  a  company  of 
Nethinim  (Ezr  2  53). 

TEMAN,  te'man  Cp2T,  ,  It'man,  "on  the  right," 
i.e.  "souih";  ©aifjidv,  Thaimdn):  The  name  of  a 
district  and  town  in  the  land  of  Edom,  named  after 
Teman  the  grandson  of  Esau,  the  son  of  his  first- 
born, Eliphaz  (Gen  36  11;  1  Ch  1  3(5).  A  duke 
Teman  is  named  among  the  chiefs  or  clans  of  Edom 
((Jen  36  42;  1  Ch  1  53).  He  does  not  however 
appear  first,  in  the  place  of  the  firstborn.  Husham 
of  the  land  of  the  Temanites  was  one  of  the  ancient 
kings  of  Edom  (Gen  36  34;  1  Ch  1  45).  From 
Ob  ver  9  we  gather  that  Teman  was  in  the  land  of 
Esau  (Edom).  In  Am  1  12  it  is  named  along  with 
Bozrah,  the  capital  of  Edom.  In  Ezk  25  13  desola- 
tion is  denounced  upon  Edom:  "From  Teman  even 
unto  Dedan  shall  they  fall  by  the  sword."  Dedan 
being  in  the  S.,  Teman  must  be  sought  in  the  N. 
Onom  knows  a  district  in  the  Gebalcne  region  called 
Tlieman,  and  also  a  town  with  the  same  name, 
occupied  by  a  Rom  garrison,  15  miles  from  Petra. 
Unfortunately  no  indication  of  direction  is  given. 
No  trace  of  the  name;  has  yet  been  found.  It  may 
have  been  on  the  road  from  Elath  to  Bozrah. 

The  inhabitants  of  Teman  seem  to  have  been 
famous  for  their  wisdom  (Jer  49  7;  Ob  vs  8  f). 
Eliphaz  the  Temanite  was  chief  of  the  comforters 
of  Job  (2  11,  etc).  The  manner  in  which  the  city 
is  mentioned  by  the  prophets,  now  by  itself,  and 
again  as  standing  for  Edom,  shows  how  important 
it  must  have  been  in  their  time.  W.  EWING 


TEMENI,  tem'G-ni,  te'me-n!  pJ'EPn  ,  tem'nl, 
Baer,  ^^P  ,  tlm'nl;  BA,  0cu|Aav,  Thaimdn,  Luc., 
©aifiaveC,  Thaimanei):  The  word  "^"Tl  means  a 
southerner,  i.e.  of  Southern  Judah;  cf  TEMAX 
(patronymic  ^P"1??  ,  temanl),  the  name  of  Edom 
(Gen  36  11,  etc),  the  "son"  of  Ashhur  (1  Ch  4  6). 

TEMPER,  tem'per:  The  word  is  used  in  AV  to 
render  different  Heb  words.  In  Ezk  46  14  for 
"temper"  (CD"}  ,  rasas)  RV  substitutes  "moisten." 
In  Cant  (5  2)  a  noun  from  the  same  stem  means 
"dewdrops."  In  Ex  29  2  AV  we  read  "cakes  un- 
leavened, tempered  [b*2  ,  balal,  lit.  "mixed"]  with 
oil,"  RV  "mingled."  The  word  denotes  "rough- 
and-ready  mixing."  In  the  recipe  for  the  making 
of  incense  given  in  Ex  (30  35)  occur  the  words 
"tempered  together,"  n~)2  ,  malah  (lit.  "salted"; 
hence  RV  "seasoned  with  salt").  The  word  occurs 
in  two  interesting  connections  in  Wisd  15  7  (RV 
"knead")  and  16  21.  In  1  Cor  12  24  it  occurs  in 
EV  as  a  rendering  of  the  Gr  word  a-vyi<epdvvv/j.i,  sng- 
kerdnnumi,  which  meant  to  "mix  together."  Paul 
is  arguing  in  favor  of  the  unity  of  the  church  and  of 
cooperation  on  the  part  of  individual  members,  and 
uses  as  an  illustration  the  human  body  which  con- 
sists of  various  organs  with  various  functions.  It 
is  God,  argues  the  apostle,  who  has  "tempered." 
"compounded"  or  "blended,"  the  body.  Each 
member  has  it  s  place  and  f  unct  ion  and  must  corit  rib- 
ute  to  the  welfare  of  the  whole  frame.  The  same 
Gr  word  occurs  in  Ho  4  2.  The  author  urges  the 
necessity  of  faith  in  regard  to  the  gospel.  The  un- 
believing Israelites  had  derived  no  benefit  from 
their  hearing  of  the  gospel  because  their  hearing  of 
it  was  not  "mixed"  with  faith.  T.  LEWIS 


Tell  el-Amarna 
Tempest 


TEMPERANCE,  tem'pcr-ans  f^Kpc^ia,  egkrd- 
te.iu),  TEMPERATE,  tem'per-iit  (t-yKpa-Hjs,'  <•</- 
krat&s,  vT)<j>d\tos,  nephdliox,  o-<o<}>pa>v,  so/iliro7i): 
AHA'  departs  from  AV  and  ERV  by  translating 
egkrateia  "self-control"  (Acts  24  25;  Gal  5  23; 
2  Pet  1  0;  1  Cor  9  25),  following  ERVm  in  .sev- 
eral of  these  passages.  This  meaning  is  in  ac- 
cordance with  classical  usage,  Plato  applying  it 
to  "mastery"  not  only  of  self,  but  of  any  object 
denoted  by  a  _genitive  following.  LXX  applies  it 
to  the  possession  "of  strongholds"  (2  Mace  8  30; 
10  15),  "of  a  position"  (10  17),  "of  the  city"  (13 
13),  "of  wisdom"  (Sir  6  27).  The  reflexive  mean- 
ing of  "self-mastery,"  "self-restraint,"  is  equ.-illy 
well  established  in  the  classics  and  LXX.  Thus,  in 
the  verbal  form,  it  is  found  in  (Jen  43  31,  for  the 
self-restraint  exercised  by  Joseph  in  the  presence 
of  his  brethren,  when  they  appeared  before  him 
as  suppliants,  and  in  IS  13  12,  where  Saul  professes 
that  he  "forced"  himself  to  do  what  was  contrary 
to  his  desire.  For  patristic  use  of  the  term,  see 
illustrations  in  Suicer's  Thesaurus  Ecclesiasticus,  I, 
1000  i'f.  Clement  of  Alexandria:  "Not  abstaining 
from  all  things,  but  using  continently  such  things 
as  one  has  judged  should  be  used";  "such  things 
as  do  not  seem  beyond  right  reason."  Basil: 
"To  avoid  excess  on  both  skies,  so  as  neither  by 
luxury  to  be  confused,  nor,  by  becoming  sickly,  to 
be  disabled  from  doing  what  has  been  commanded." 
Chrysostom  (on  1  Tim  1  8)  applies  it  to  "one 
mastering  passion  of  tongue,  hand  and  unbridled 
eyes."  Ellicott  and  Eadie  (on  Gal  5  23)  quote 
Diogenes  Laertius  to  the  effect  that  the  word  refers 
to  "control  over  the  stronger  passions."  In  1  Cor 
9  25,  Paul  illustrates  it  by  the  training  of  an  athlete, 
whose  regimen  is  not  only  described  in  the  Ars 
Poetica  of  Horace  (412  ff),  and  in  Epictetus  (quoted 
in  Alford  on  this  passage),  but  can  be  learned  of  the 
many  devotees  and  admirers  of  similar  pursuits 
today. 

The  principle  involved  is  that  of  the  concentra- 
tion of  all  man's  powers  and  capabilities  upon  the 
one  end  of  doing  God's  will,  in  and  through  what  ever 
calling  God  appoints,  and  the  renunciation  of  every- 
thing either  wholly  or  to  whatever  degree  necessary, 
however  innocent  or  useful  it  may  be  in  its  proper 
place,  that  interferes  with  one's  highest  efficiency  in 
this  calling  (1  Cor  10  31).  Not  limited  to  absti- 
nence, it  is  rather  the  power  and  decision  to  abstain 
with  reference  to  some  fixed  end,  and  the  use  of  the 
impulses  of  physical,  as  servants  for  the  moral,  life. 
It  does  not  refer  to  any  one  class  of  objects  that 
meets  us,  but  to  all;  to  what  concerns  speech  and 
judgment,  as  well  as  to  what  appeals  to  sense.  It 
is  properly  an  inner  spiritual  virtue,  working  into  the 
outward  life,  incapable  of  being  counterfeited  or 
replaced  by  any  abstinence  limited  to  that  which 
is  external  (Augsburg  Confession,  Arts.  XXVI, 
XXVII).  When  its  absence,  however,  is  referred 
to  as  sin,  the  negative  is  generally  more  prominent 
than  the  positive  side  of  temperance.  The  refer- 
ence in  Acts  24  25  is  to  chastity,  and  in  1  Cor  7  9, 
as  the  context  shows,  to  the  inner  side  of  chastity 
In  1  Tim  3  2.11;  Tit  2  2,  the  word  nephalios  has 
its  original  meaning  as  the  opposite  to  "drunken" 
(see  SOBRIETY;  Dm  .vie,  STRONG)-  See  also  the 
treatises  on  ethics  by  Luthardt  (both  the  Co»t- 
peinliinn _  and  the  I/istori/),  Martensen,  Koestlin 
and  Haring  on  temperance,  asceticism,  continence. 

H.  E.  JACOKS 

TEMPEST,  tem'pest  (^70,  ^arali,  or  ST^E , 
srVtra/i,  "a  whirlwind,"  D"1T ,  zcron,  "overflowing 
rain";  X«lljuiv>  chein/on,  0veX.\a,  thuclla):  Heavy 
storms  of  wind  and  rain  are  common  in  Pal  and  the 
Mediterranean.  The  storms  particularly  men- 
tioned in  the  Bible  are:  (1)  the  40  days''  rain  of 


Temple 


THE  INTHIINATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2930 


ll,(.  m-eat  linn,!  of  Noah  (Gen  7  4);  (2)  hail  and 
niinasaplagueinl<;gyp!  (Ex  9  IS);  (3)  the  great 
nin  after  (lie  drought  :uul  (lie  contest  of  Elijah  on 
Carmel  (I  K  18  45);  (4)  the  tempest  on  the  sea 
in  the  story  of  Jonah  (1  4);  (.r>)  the  storm  on  the 
Lake  of  Galilee  when  Jesus  was  awakened  to  calm 
the  waves  (Mt  8  24;  Mk  4  37;  Lk  8  23);  (6) 
the  storm  causing  the  shipwreck  of  Paul  at  Melita 
(Vets  27  IS).  Frequent  references  are  iouna 
God's  power  over  storm  and  use  of  the  tempest  in 
His  anger:  "He  maketh  Ihe  storm  a  calm 
107  •><))•  He  sends  the  "tempest  of  hail,  a  destroy- 
ing storm''  (Isa  28  2).  See  also  Job  9  17;  21  18; 
ls-i  30  MO  Jeh  overwhelms  His  enemies  as  wil  i  a 
stornr  "She  shall  bo  visited  of  Jeh  of  hosts  with 
thunder,  and  with  earthquake,  and  great  noise,  with 
whirlwind  and  tempest"  (Isa  29  6).  Jeh  is  a  refuge 
from  the  storm"  (Isa  25  4  ;  4  (>). 

ALFRED  IT.  JOY 

TEMPLE,  tem'p'l  P?Tt  ,  hvkhnl,  "palace"; 
sometimes,  as  in  1  K  6  3.5,  etc;  K/.k  41  1  15  ff, 
used  for  "the  holy  place"  only;  IT1?,  bayith, 
"liouse,"  thus  always  in  RV;  Upov,  fii,r<m,  vaos, 

n(i('>x}  '• 

A.    STUTCTTHK    AND   HISTOKY 
i.      SOLOMON'S   TEMPLE 

I.      1  XTKOIHTTOKY 

1      David's  Project 
•2     Plans  and  Preparations 
:;.  Character  of  the  Building 
-l!   Site  of  the  Temple 
.r>.   Phoenician  Assistance 
II.     TH  n  TEMPLE   Hi  [LDJ  tta 
i.   In  General 

•_'.    Dimensions,  Divisions  and  Adornments 
ii'.   The  Side-Chambers 
1.   The  Porch  and  Pillars 

III.        COURTS,    (iATES     AM)      KoYAL     UuiI.DINCiS 

1  .   The  Inner  Court 

(1)    Walls 

(•_')    (lutes 

•>     The  <  ireut  Court 
:?.  The  Royal  Buildings 

IV.         I'VKNITrKK     <"•'     T'IK     TEMPLE 

1.  The  Sanctuary 

(1)  Tho  d'bhlr 
(-2)    The  hckhnl 

•_'.   The  Court   (Inner) 
(1  )    The  Altar 

(2)  The  Molten  (Bronze)  Sea 

(3)  The  havers  and  Their  Bases 
V       HISTOHY   OF   Tin-;   TEMPLE 

1.    Building  and  Dedication 
•'     Repeated  Plundering,  etc 
:5.   Attempts  at  Reform 
4.   Final  Overthrow 


II.      EZEKIEL'S   ruopiiKTir    SKETCH 


I 


1      Relation  to  History  of   I  emple 
•2    Tho  Conception  Unique  and  Ideal 
:{.   Its  Symmetrical  Measurements 
II.      Pi.  AM    OF   THE   TEMPLE 
i.   The  Outer  Court 
•_>     The  Inner  Court 
:<.   The  Temple  Building  and  Adjuncts 

III.         THE     TEMPLE     OF     ZKUfUUAUEL 
I.        1  N,'TI!OI>rOTOKY 

1.  The  Decree'  of  Cyrus 

•2.    Founding  of  the  Temple 
:{.   Opposition  and  Completion  of  the  \\ork 
II.     THE   TEMPLE   STUUCTUHE 
!  .    Tho  House 

2.  It-s  Divisions  and  Furniture 
:i.    Its  Courts,  Altai-,  etc 

4.    Later  Fortunes 

IV.         THE     TEMPLE     OF     HKHOI) 
I          I  NTRODUCTOltY 

1.  Initiation  of  the  Work 

•2.  Its  Grandeur 

:{.  Authorities 

4.  Measurements 
II.     THE  TEMPLE   AND   ITS   COTRTS 

1.  Temple  Area  —  Court  of  Gentiles 

2.  Inner  Sanctuary  Enclosure 

(1)  Wall,  hf:l,  yon'nh.  Gates 

(2)  Court  of  tiie  Women 

(3)  Inner  Courts:   Court  of  Israel;   Court  of  the 
Priests 

(4)  The  Altar,  etc 


I*.   The  Tempi--  Building 

(1)  House  and  Porch 

(2)  Hrkhfil  and  if'lihir 
(:5)  The  Side-Chambers 

III.     NT  ASSOCIATIONS  OF  HEROD'S  TEMPLE 

1.  Earlier  Incidents 

2.  Jesus  in  the  Temple 

3.  The  Passion-Week 

4.  Apostolic  Church 

The  Temple  in  Christian  Thought 


LITE  K  ATI; 


A.       STRrrTl'HE    AM)    HlSTOKY 


i.     SOLOMON'S  TEMPLE 

/.   Introductory.  —  The  tabernacle  having  lasted 
from    the   exodus    till    the    commencement   of   the 

monarchy,  it  appeared  to  David  to  be 
1  David's  no  longer  fit  ting  that  the  ark  of  God 
Project  should  dwell  within  curtains  (it  was 

then  in  a  tent  David  had  made  for  it 
on  Zion:  2  S  6  17),  while  he  himself  dwelt  in  a 
cedar-lined  house.  The  unsettled  and  unorgan- 
ized state  of  the  nation,  which  had  hitherto  necessi- 
tated a  portable  structure,  had  now  given  place  to 
an  established  kingdom.  The  dwelling  of  Jeh 
should  therefore  be  henceforth  a  permanent  build- 
ing, situated  at  the  center  of  the  nation's  life,  and 
"exceeding  magnificent"  (1  Ch  22  5),  as  befitted 
the  glory  of  Jeh,  and  the  prospects  of  the  state. 
David,  however,  while  honored  for  his  purpose, 


was  not 


permitted,  because  he  had  been  a  man  of 
war  (2  S  7;  1  Ch  22  8;  cf  1  K  5  3), 
2.  Plans  to  execute  the  work,  and  the  building 
and  Prepa-  of  the  house  was  reserved  for  his  son, 
rations  Solomon.  According  to  the  Chronicler, 

David  busied  himself  in  making  exten- 
sive and  costly  preparations  of  wood,  stone,  gold, 
silver,  etc,  for' the  future  sanctuary  and  its  vessels, 
even  leaving  behind  him  full  and  minute  plans  of 
the  whole  scheme  of  the  building  and  its  contents, 
divinely  communicated  (1  Ch  22  2  ff;  28  11  ff; 
29).  the  general  fact  of  lengthened  preparation, 
and  even  of  designs,  for  a  structure  which  so  deeply 
occupied  his  thoughts,  is  extremely  probable  (cf 
1  K  7  51). 

The  general  outline  of  the  structure  was  based  on 
that  of  the  tabernacle  (on  the  modern  critical 
reversal  of  this  relation,  see  under  U, 
3.  Charac-  below).  The  dimensions  are  in  the 
ter  of  the  main  twice  those  of  the  tabernacle, 
Building  though  it  will  be  seen  below  that  there 
are  important  exceptions  to  this  rule, 
on  which  the  critics  found  so  much.  The  old  ques- 
tion (see  TABERNACLE)  as  to  the  shape  of  the 
building — flat  or  gable-roofed — here  again  arises. 
Not  a  few  modern  writers  (Fcrgusson,  Schick, 
Caldecott,  etc),  with  some  older,  favor  the  tent- 
like  shape,  with  sloping  roof.  It  does  not  follow, 
however,  even  if  this  form  is,  with  these  writers, 
admitted  for  the  tabernacle — a  "tent" — that  it  is 
applicable,  or  likely,  for  a  stone  "house,"  and  the 
measurements  of  the  Temple,  and  mention  of  a 
"ceiling"  (1  K  6  15),  point  in  the  opposite  direc- 
tion. It  must  st  ill  be  granted  that,  with  the  scanty 
data  at  command,  all  reconstructions  of  the  Solo- 
monic Temple  leave  much  to  be  filled  in  from  con- 
jecture. Rev.  Joseph  Hammond  has  justly  said: 
"It  is  certain  that,  were  a  true  restoration  of  the 
Temple  ever  to  be  placed  in  our  hands,  we  should 
find  that  it  differed  widely  from  all  attempted 
'restorations'  of  the  edifice,  based  on  the  scanty  and 
imperfect  notices  of  our  historian  and  Ezk"  (Comm. 
on  1  K  6,  "Pulpit  Comm."). 

The  site  of  the  Temple  was  on  the  eastern  of  the 

two  hills  on  which  Jerus  was  built— that  known  m 

Scripture  as  Mt.  Moriah  (2  Ch  3  1) 

4.  Site  of       or  Mt.  Zion  (the  traditional  view  which 

the  Temple   locates  Zion  on  the  western  hill,  on 

the    other    side    of    the    Tyropceon, 

though  defended  by  some,  seems  untenable;    see 


2931 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


"Zion,"  in  HDK;  "Jerusalem,"  in  DK,  etc).  The 
place  is  more  precisely  defined  as  that  \vhere 
Araunah  (Oman)  liad  his  threshing-floor,  and  David 
built  his  altar  after  the  plague  (1  Ch  21  22;  2  Ch 

3  1).  This  spot,  in  turn,  is  now  all  hut  universally 
held  to  be  marked  by  the  sacred  rock,  e$-$akhra 
(wit  hin  what,  is  called  the  I  I  arum  area  on  the  eastern 
summit;  see  JKIU'SALKM),  above  which  the  "Dome 
of  the  Rock,"  or  so-called  "Mosque  of  Omar," 
now  stands.  Here,  according  to  traditional  belief, 
was  reared  the  altar  of  burnt  offering,  and  to  the  W. 
of  it  was  built  the  Temple.  This  location  is  indeed 
challenged  by  Fergusson,  W.  R.  Smith,  and  others, 
who  transfer  the  Temple-site  to  the  southwestern 
angle  of  the  Ilarnm  area,  but  the  great  majority 
of  scholars  take  the  above  view.  To  prepare  a 
suitable  surface  for  the  Temple  and  connected 
buildings  (the  area  may  have  been  some  600  ft 
E.  to  W.,  and  300  to  400  ft.  N.  to  S.),  the  summit 
of  the  hill  hud  to  be  leveled,  and  its  lower  parts 
heightened  by  immense  substructures  (Jos,  Ant 
VIII,  iii,  9;  XV,  xi,  8;  BJ ,  V,  v,  1),  the  remains  of 
which  modern  excavations  have  brought  to  light 
(cf  Warren's  Underground  Jcrus;  G.  A.  Smith's 
Jerus,  etc). 

For  aid  in  his  undertaking,  Solomon  invited  the 
cooperation  of  Hiram,  king  of  Tyre,  who  willingly 
lent  his  assistance,  as  he  had  before 
5.  Phoeni-  helped  David,  granting  Solomon  per- 
cian  Assist-  mission  to  send  his  servants  to  cut 
ance  down  timber  in  Lebanon,  aiding  in 

transport,  and  in  the  (marrying  and 
hewing  of  stones,  and  sending  a  skilful  Tyrian  artist, 
another  Hiram,  to  superintend  the  designing  and 
graving  of  objects  made  of  the  precious  metals, 
etc.  For  this  assistance  Solomon  made  a  suitable 
recompense  (1  K  5;  2  Ch  2).  Excavations  seem 
to  show  that  a  large  part  of  the  limestone  of  which 
the  temple  was  built  came  from  quarries  in  the 
immediate  neighborhood  of  Jerus  (Warren,  Under- 
ground Jc.rus,  GO).  The  stones  were  cut,  hewn 
and  polished  at  the  places  whence  they  were  taken, 
so  that  ''there  was  neither  hammer  nor  axe  nor 
any  tool  of  iron  heard  in  the  house,  while  it  was  in 
building"  (1  K  5  17. IS;  6  7).  Opinions  differ  as 
to  the  style  of  architecture  of  the  building.  It  was 
probably  unique,  but  Phoen  art  also  must  have  left 
its  impress  upon  it  (see  ARCHITECTURE). 

II.    The  Temple  Building. — In  contrast  with  the 
tabernacle,    which    was    a    portable    "tent,"    con- 
sisting of  a  framework  of  acacia  wood, 
1-  In  with  rich  coverings  hung  over  it,  and 

General  standing  in  a  "court"  inclosed  by 
curtains  (see  TAHKRXACLK),  the 
Temple  was  a  substantial  "house"  built  of  stone 
(probably  the  hard  white  limestone  of  the  district), 
with  chambers  in  three  stories,  half  the  height  of 
the  building  (1  K  6  5.6),  round  the  sides  and  back, 
and,  in  front,  a  stately  porch  (1  K  6  3),  before 
which  stood  two  lofty  bronze  pillars — Jachin  and 
Boaz  (1  K  7  21;  2  Ch  3  4.15-17).  Within,  the 
house  was  lined  with  cedar,  overlaid  with  gold, 
graven  with  figures  of  cherubim,  palms,  and  open 
flowers  (1  K  6  15.18.21.22.29),  and  a  partition  of 
cedar  or  stone  divided  the  interior  into  two  apart- 
ments— one  the  holy  place  (the  hekhal),  the  other 
the  most  holy  place,  or  "oracle"  (tlfhlnr)  (1  K  6 
16-18).  The  floor  was  of  stone,  covered  with  fir 
(or  cypress),  likewise  overlaid  with  gold  (1  K  6 
15.30).  The  platform  on  which  the  whole  building 
stood  was  probably  raised  above  the  level  of  the 
court  in  front,  and  the  building  may  have  been 
approached  by  steps.  Details  are  not  given.  The 
more  particular  description  follows. 

The  Temple,  like  the  tabernacle,  stood  facing 
E.,  environed  by  "courts"  ("inner"  and  "greater"), 
which  are  dealt  with  below.  Internally,  the  di- 


mensions of  the  structure  were,  in  length  and  width, 
double  those  of  the  tabernacle,  vi/.  length  60 

cubits,  width  20  cubits.  The  height, 
2.  Dimen-  however,  was  30  cubits,  thrice  that  of 
sions,  Di-  the  tabernacle  (1  K  6  2;  cf  vs  IX. 20). 
visions  and  The  precise  length  of  the  cubit  is  un- 
Adornments  certain  (see  Cnuri ;  here,  as  in  the 

art.  TABIOK.VACLK,  it,  is  taken  as  ap- 
proximately IS  inches.  In  internal  measurement, 
therefore,  the  Temple  was  approximately  90  ft.  long, 
30ft.  broad,  and  45  ft.  high.  This  allows  nothing 


Plan  of  Solomon's  Temple. 

for  the  thickness  of  the  partition  between  the  two 
chambers.  For  the  external  measurement,  the 
thickness  of  the  walls  and  t  he  widt  h  of  the  surround- 
ing chambers  and  their  walls  require  to  be  added. 
It  cannot  positively  be  affirmed  that  the  dimensions 
of  the  Temple,  including  the  porch,  coincided  pre- 
cisely with  those  of  Ezekiel's  temple  (cf  Keil  on 

1  K  6  9.10);      still,    the    proportions    must    have 
closely  approximated,  and  mat/  have  been  in  agree- 
ment. 

The  walls  of  the  building,  as  stated,  were  lined 
within  with  cedar;  the  holy  place  was  ceiled  with 
fir  or  cypress  (2  Ch  3  5;"  the  "oracle"  perhaps 
with  cedar);  the  flooring  likewise  was  of  fir  ( 1  K  6 
15).  All  was  overlaid  with  gold,  and  walls  and  doors 
(see  below)  were  adorned  with  gravings  of  cheru- 
bim, palm  trees,  and  open  flowers  (1  K  6  19-35; 

2  Ch  3  6    adds    "precious   stories").     Of   the    two 
chambers  into  which  the  house  was  divided,   the 
outermost  (or  hekhal)  was  40  cubits  (60  ft.)  long, 
and  20  cubits   (30  ft.)   wide   (ver  17);    the  inner- 
most (or  debhlr)  was  20  cubits  in  length,  breadth  and 
height— a   cube    (ver   20).     As   the   height   of   the 
Temple  internally  was  30  cubits,  it  is  obvious  that 
above  the  most  holy  place  there  was  a  vacant  space 
20  cubits  long  and  10  high.     This  apparently  was 
utilized  as  a  chamber  or  chambers  for  storage  or 
other  purposes.     It  has  been  held  by  some  (Kurtz, 
Fergusson,   etc)   that  the  ceiling  along  the  entire 
Temple  was  at  the  height  of  20  cubits,  with  cham- 
bers above  (cf  the  allusion  to  "upper  chambers" 
in  1  Ch  28  11;    2  Ch  3  9);    this, 'however,  seems 
unwarranted  (cf  Bahr  on  1  K  6  14-19;   the  "upper 
chambers"   were  "overlaid  with  gold,"  2  Ch  3  9, 
which   points   to   something    nobler    in    character). 
The  inner  chamber  was  a   place  of    "thick   dark- 
ness" (1  K  8  12). 

The  thickness  of  the  Temple  walls  is  not  given, 
but  the  analogy  of  Ezekiel's  temple  (E/k  41)  and 
what  is  told  of  the  side-chambers  render  it 
probable  that  the  thickness  was  not  less  than  6 
cubits  (9  ft.).  Around  the  Temple,  on  its  two 


Temple 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2932 


sides  and  ;ii  the  buck,  were  built  chambers  (f/a'o.'/i, 

lit.  "ribs"),  the  construction  of  which  is  summarily 

described.     They   were  built   in   three 

3.  The  stories,  each   story  5  cubits  in  height 
Side-  (allowance  must  also  be  made  for  floor- 
Chambers      ing  and   roofing),    the   lowest   being  5 

cubits  in  breadth,  the  next  C>  cubits, 
and  the  highest  7  cubits.  This  is  explained  by  the 
fact  that,  the  chambers  were  not  to  be  built  into  the 
wall  of  the  Temple,  but  were  to  rest  on  ledges  or 
rebatements  in  the  wall,  each  rebate  :i  cubit  in 
breadth,  so  that  the  wall  became  thinner,  and  the 
chambers  broader,  by  a  cubit,  each  stage  in  the 
ascent  (1  K  6  5-10).  The  door  admitting  into 
these  chambers  was  apparently  in  the  middle  of  the 
right  side  of  the  house,  and  winding  stairs  led  up  to 
the  second  and  third  stories  (ver  S).  It  is  not  stated 
how  many  chambers  there  were;  Jos  (Ant,  VIII, 
iii,  2)  gives  the  number  as  30,  which  is  the  number 
in  Ezekiel's  temple  (K/k  41  0).  The  outer  wall  of 
the  chambers,  which  in  Ezk is  5  cubits  thick  (41  9), 
may  have  been  the  same  here,  though  some  make  it 
less.  It  is  a  question  whether  the  rebatements  were 
in  the  Temple  wall  only,  or  were  divided  between  it 
and  the  outer  wall;  the  former  seems  the  more  prob- 
able opinion,  as  nothing  is  said  of  rebatements  in 
the  outer  wall.  Above  the  chambers  on  either  side 
were  "windows  of  fixed  lattice-work"  (ver  4),  i.e. 
openings  which  could  not  be  closed  ("windows 
broad  within  and  narrow  without").  The  pur- 
poses for  which  the  chambers  were  constructed 
are  Tiot  mentioned.  They  may  have  been  used 
partly  for  storage,  partly  for  the  accommodation 
of  those  engaged  in  the  service  of  the  Temple 
(rf  1  Ch  9  27). 

A   conspicuous  feature  of  the  Temple  was   the 

porch  in  front  of  the  building,  with  its  twin  pillars, 

Jachin  and  Boa/,.     Of  the  porch  itself 

4.  The  a  very  brief  description   is  given.     It, 
Porch  and      is  stated  to  have  been  20  cubits  broad — 
Pillars  the  width  of  the  house — and  10  cubits 

dee]>  (I  K  6  3).  Its  height  is  not 
given  in  1  K,  but  it  is  said  in  2  Ch  3  4  to  have  been 
120  cubits,  or  approximately  ISO  ft.  Some  accept 
this  enormous  height  (Kwald,  Stanley,  etc),  but 
the  majority  more  reasonably  infer  that  there  has 
been  a  corruption  of  the  number.  It  may  have 
been  the  same  height  as  the  Temple — 30  cubits.  It 
was  apparently  open  in  front,  and,  from  what  is 
said  of  its  being  "overlaid  within  with  pure  gold" 
(2  Ch  3  4),  it  may  be  concluded  that  it  shared  in 
the  splendor  of  the  main  building,  and  had  archi- 
tectural features  of  its  own  which  are  not  recorded. 
Some  find  here,  in  the  wings,  treasury  chambers, 
and  above,  "upper  chambers,"  but  such  restorations 
are  wholly  conjectural.  It  is  otherwise  with  the 
monumental  brass  (bronze)  pillars — Jachin  and 
Boaz — of  which  a  tolerably  full  description  is  pre- 
served (1  K  7  15-22;  2  Ch  3  15-17;  4  11-13; 
cf  Jer  52  20-23),  still,  however,  leaving  many 
points  doubtful.  The  pillars  which  stood  in  front 
of  the  porch,  detached  from  it,  were  hollow  bronze 
castings,  each  IS  cubits  (27  ft.)  in  height  (35  cubits 
in  2  Ch  3  15  is  an  error),  and  12  cubits  (18  ft.) 
in  circumference,  and  were  surmounted  by  capitals 
5  cubits  (7|  ft.)  high,  richly  ornamented  on  their 
lower,  bowl-shaped  (1  K  7  20.41.42)  parts,  with 
two  rows  of  pomegranates,  inclosing  festoons  of 
chain-work,  and,  in  their  upper  parts,  rising  to  the 
height  of  4  cubits  (6  ft.)  in  graceful  lily-work  (see 
JACHIN  AND  BOAZ). 

It  was  seen  that  the  holy  place  (hekkal)  was 
divided  from  the  most  holy  (dcbhlr)  by  a  partit  ion, 
probably  of  cedar  wood,  though  some  think  of  a 
stone  wall,  one  or  even  two  cubits  thick.  In  this 
partition  were  folding  doors,  made  of  olive  wood, 
with  their  lintels  4  cubits  wide  (1  K  6  31;  some 


interpret  differently,  and  understand  the  upper 
part  of  the  doorway  to  be  a  pentagon).  The  doors, 
like  the  walls,  had  carvings  of  cherubim,  palm 
trees,  and  flowers,  and  the  whole  was  gold-plated 
(ver  32).  Behind  the  partition  hung  the  sanc- 
tuary veil  (2  Ch  3  14).  At  the  entrance  of  the 
Temple,  similarly,  were  folding  doors,  with  their 
lintels  5  cubits  in  width,  only  this  time  the  posts 
only  were  of  olive,  while  the  doors,  divided  into  two 
leaves,  were  of  fir  (or  cypress)  wood  (1  K  6  33- 
35).  The  carving  and  gold-plating  were  as  on  the 
inner  doors,  and  all  the  doors  had  hinges  of  gold 
(1  K  7  50). 

///.  Courts,  Gates  and  Royal  Buildings. — The 
Temple  was  inclosed  in  "courts" — an  "inner" 
(1  K  6  30;  7  12;  2  Ch  4  9,  "court  of  the  priests"; 


Great  Court  including  Royal  Building*. 

1  Cr.-nt  C.mrt  '2.  The  "Oth.-r"  ..r  Mi.l.llr  Cmirt.  :i.  The  1  nnrr  lor  TVmplr) 
(,„,;!  4  H..UM!  of  l.,.l);in,,ii.  :.  I'.irch  nf  Pillars.  (i.  Thr.mu  I'.>rrh. 
7.  K.iy;il  l':il.i.  .-.  8.  llurem.  «.  T^niiilr.  Id.  Altar. 

Jer  36  10,  "the  upper  court";  Ezk  8  3.10;  10  3), 
and  an  outer  or  "greater  court"  (1  K  7  9.12;  2  Ch 
4  9) — regarding  the  situation,  dimensions  and 
relations  of  which,  alike  to  one  another  and  to  the 
royal  buildings  described  in  1  K  7,  the  scanty 
notices  in  the  history  leave  room  for  great  diversity 
of  opinion  (see  Corirr  OF  THE  SANCTUARY). 

The  "inner  court"  (finder  ha-p'nlmlth)  is  repeat- 
edly referred  to  (see  above)-  Its  dimensions  are  not 

given,  but  they  may  be  presumed 
1.  The  to  be  twice  those  of  the  tabernacle 

Inner  Court  court,    viz.    200    cubits    (300    ft.)    in 

length  and  100  cubits  (150  ft.)  in 
breadth.  The  name  in  Jer  36  10,  "the  upper 
court,"  indicates  that  it  was  on  a  higher  level  than 
the  "great  court,"  and  as  the  Temple  was  probably 
on  a  platform  higher  still,  the  whole  would  present 
a  striking  terraced  aspect. 

( 1 )  The  walls  of  the  court  were  built  of  three  rows 
of  hewn  stone,  with  a  coping  of  cedar  beams  (1  K 
6  30).  Their  height  is  not  stated;  it  is  doubtful 
if  it  would  admit  of  the  colonnades  which  some 
have  supposed;  but  "chambers"  are  mentioned 
(Jer  35  4;  36  10— if,  indeed,  all  belong  to  the 


Til  10  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAK1  >I.\ 


Temple 


"inner"  court ),  which  imply  ;i  subsf  ant  ial  si  ruct  arc. 
Lt  was  distinctively  "the  priests' court"  (2  Ch  4  9); 
probably,  in  part,  was  reserved  for  tliem;  to  a 
certain  decree,  however,  the  laity  had  evidently 
free  access  into  it  (.Jer  36  10;  38  1  1 ;  Ezk  8  JO, 
etc).  The  mention  of  "the  new  court"  (2  Ch  20 
.5,  time  of  Jehoshaphat),  and  of  "the  two  courts  of 
the  house  of  Jeh"  (2  K  21  ;5;  2  Ch  33  .5,  time 
of  Manasseh),  suggests  subsequent  enlargement 
and  division. 

(2)  Though  flairs  are  not  mentioned  in  tlie 
narratives  of  the  construction,  later  allusions  show 
that  (here  were  several,  though  not  all  were  of  the 
time  of  Solomon.  The  principal  entrance  would, 
of  course,  be  that  toward  the  JiL  (see  EAST  GATE). 
In  Jer  26  10  there  is  allusion  to  "the  entry  of  the 
new  gate  of  Jeh'.s  house."  This  doubtless  was  "the 
upper  gale"  built  by  .lot ham  (2  K  15  of))  and  may 
reasonably  be  identified  with  the  "gate  that  looketh 
toward  the  N."  and  the  "gate  of  the  altar"  (i.e. 
through  which  the  sacrifices  were  brought)  in  E/k 
8  3.;5,  and  with  "the  upper  gate  of  Benjamin"  in  .Jer 
20  o.  Men!  ion  is  also  made  of  a  "gate  of  the  guard" 
which  descended  to  the  king's  house  (2  K  11  19; 
see  below).  Jeremiah  speaks  of  a  "third  entry  that 
is  in  the  house  of  Jeh"  (38  11),  and  of  "three  keepers 
of  the  threshold"  (52  24),  but  it  is  not  clear  which 
court  is  intended. 

The  outer  or  "great  court"  of  the  Temple  (hilrrr 

ha-gedholah)    opens    up    more    difficult     problems. 

Some  regard   this  court  as  extending 

2.  The  to  the  E.  in  front  of  the  "inner  court"; 
Great  others,  as  Keil,  think  of  it  as  a  great, 
Court  inclosure surrounding  the  "inner  court" 

and  stretching  perhaps  150  cubits  K. 
of  the  latter  (of  his  Bib.  Archaeology,  I,  170-71). 
These  writers  remove  the  court  from  all  connection 
with  the  royal  buildings  of  1  K  7,  and  distinguish 
it  from  "the  great  court  of  7  0.12."  A  quite  differ- 
ent construction  is  that  advocated  by  Stade  and 
Benzinger,  and  adopted  by  most  recent  authorities 
(of  arts,  on  "Temple"  in  HDB,  IV,  in  Eli,  IV,  in 
one-vol  HDB,  in  J)B  [Dahnan];  G.  A.  Smith,  Jcriix, 
II,  .59  ff,  etc).  The  great  court,  on  this  view,  not 
only  surrounds  the  Temple,  with  its  (inner)  court, 
but,  extending  to  the  S.,  incloses  the  whole  com- 
plex of  the  royal  buildings  of  1  K  7.  This  lias 
the  advantage  of  bringing  together  the  references 
to  the  "great  court"  in  1  K  7  0.12  and  the  other 
references  to  the  outer  court.  The  court,  thus 
conceived,  must  have  been  very  large.  The  ex- 
tensive part  occupied  by  the  royal  buildings  being 
on  a  lower  level  than  the  "inner  court,"  entrance 
to  it  is  thought  to  have  been  by  "the  gate  of  the 
guard  unto  the  king's  house"  mentioned  in  2  K 
11  19-  Its  wall,  like  that  of  the  inner  court,  was 
built  in  three  courses  of  hewn  stone,  and  one  course 
of  cedar  (1  K7  J2).  Its  gates  overlaid  with  brass 
(2  Ch  4  9,  i.e.,  "bronze")  show  that  the  masonry 
must,  have  been  both  high  and  substantial.  On  the 
"other  court"  of  1  K  7  8,  see  next  paragraph. 

The  group   of   buildings   which,   on   the  thoory  now 

stated,  were  inclosed  by  the  southern  part  of  the  great 

court,  are  those  described  in  1    K  7  1-12. 

3.  The  They  were  of  hewn  stone  and  cedar  wood 
Roval  (vs  9~u)-  and  embraced:    (1)  The  kind's 
„   '•f.              house,  or  royal  palace  (ver  8),  in  close  con- 
iJUlldingS        tiguity   with    the    Temple-court    (i>    K   H 

19).  (2)  Behind  this  to  the  W.,  the  house 
of  Pharaoh's  daughter  (ver  9) — the  apartments  of  the 
women.  Hoth  of  these  were  inclosed  in  a  "court  "  of 
their  own,  styled  in  ver  S  "the  other  court,"  and  iti  2  K 
20  4  in  "the  middle  court."  (;5)  S.  of  this  stood  tin; 
throne-room,  and  porch  or  hall  of  judgment,  paneled  in 
cedar  "from  floor  to  floor,"  i.e.  from  floor  to  ceiling  (ver  7) 
The  throne,  we  read  later  (1  K  10  1S-20),  was  of  ivory, 
overlaid  with  gold,  and  on  cither  side  of  the  throne,  as 
well  as  of  the  six  steps  that  led  up  to  it,  were  lions.  The 
hall  served  as  an  audience  chamber,  and  for  the  adminis- 
tration of  justice.  (4)  Yet  farther  S.  stood  the;  porch  or 
hall  of  pillars,  50  cubits  (75  ft.)  long  and  30  cubits  (45  ft  ) 


broad,  with  a  sub-porch  of  its  own  (ver  r».  It  is  best 
regarded  as  a  place  of  prom  -nade  and  vestibule  to  the 
hall  of  judgment.  (5)  Lastly,  then:  was  the  imposing 
and  elaborate  building  known  as  "  t  he  house  of  the  forest 
of  Lebanon"  (ys  2-5),  which  appears  to  have  received 
this  name  from  its  multitude  of  cedar  pillars.  The  scanty 
hints  as  to  its  internal  arrangements  have  bullied  the 
Ingenuity  of  the  commentators.  The  I  muse  was  100  cubits 
(150  ft.)  in  length,  50  cubits  (75  ft.)  in  breadth,  and  30 
cubits  (45  ft.)  in  height.  Coing  round  the  sides  and 
back  then;  were  apparently  four  rows  of  pillars  (I,XX  has 
three,  rows),  on  which,  supported  by  cedar  beams,  rested 
three  tiers  or  stories  of  side-chambers  Hit.  "ribs,"  as  in 
6  5;  cf  KYni).  In  ver  :•$  it  is  disputed  whether  the 
number  "forty  and  five;  fifteen  in  a  row"  (as  the  Ileb 
may  be  read)  refers  to  the  pillars  or  to  t  he  chambers;  if  to 
the  former,  the  I. XX  reading  of  "three  rows"  is  prefer- 
able. The  windows  of  the  tiers  faced  each  other  on  the 
opposite  sides  (vs  4.5).  Hut  the  whole  construction  is 
obscure  and  doubtful.  The  spacious  house  was  used 
partly  as  an  armory;  here  Solomon  put  his  300  shields  of 
beaten  gold  (10  17). 

IV.  Furniture  of  the  Temple. — We  treat  here, 
first,  of  the  sanctuary  in  its  two  divisions,  then  of 
the  (inner)  court. 

(1)  The   "<l''bhlr." — In   the   most   holy   place,   or 
d'bhlr,  of  the  sanctuary  stood,  as  before,  the  old 

Mosaic  ark  of  the  covenant,  with  its 
1.  The  two  golden  cherubim  above  tin;  mercy- 

Sanctuary  seat  (sec;  AKK  OK  Tin:  COVENANT; 

TABEKXACLK).  Xow,  however,  the 
symbolic  element  was  increased  by  the  ark  being 
placed  between  two  other  figures  of  cherubim, 
made  of  olive  wood,  overlaid  with  gold,  10  cubits 
(1.5  ft.)  high,  their  wings,  each  .5  cubits  (7}  ft.) 
long,  outstretched  so  that  they  reached  from  wall 
to  wall  of  the  oracle;  (20  cubits),  the  inner  wings 
meeting  in  the  center  (1  K  6  2:J-2S;  2  Ch  3  10- 
13).  See  CuiciirniM. 

(2)  The  "hekfial."—In  the  holy  place,  or  hckfial, 
the  changes  were  greater,      (a]    Before   the  oracle, 
mentioned  as  belonging  to   it    (1  K  6  22),    stood 
the  altar  of  incense,  covered  with  cedar,  and  over- 
laid with  gold    (1  K  6  20.22;    7  -IS;    2  Ch  4   19; 
see  ALTAR  OP  INCE.VSK).     it  is  an  arbitrary  pro- 
cedure of  criticism  to  attempt  to  identify  this  altar 
with  the  table  of  shewbread.      (b)   Instead  of  one 
golden  candlestick,  as  in  the  tabernacle,  there  were 
now  10,  5  placed  on  one  side  and  .5  on  the  other,  in 
front  of  the  oracle.     All,  with  their  utensils,  were 
of  pure  gold  (1  K  7  49;   2  Ch  4  7).      (r)  Likewise. 
for  one  table  of  shewbread,  there  were  now  10,  5 
on  one  side,  5  on  the  other,  also  with  their  utensils 
made  of  gold  (1  K  7  4S,  where,  however,  only  one 
table  is  mentioned;  2  Ch  4  S,  "100  basins  of  gold"). 
As    these   objects,    only   enlarged    in    number    and 
dimensions,  are  fashioned  after  the  model  of  those 
of  the  tabernacle,  further  particulars  regarding  them 
are  not  given  here. 

(1)  The  altar. — The  most   prominent  object   in 
the  Temple-court  was  the  altar  of  burnt  offering, 

or  brazen  altar  (see  UKAZK.V  ALTAH). 
2.  The  The  site  of  the  altar,  as  already  seen, 

Court  was  the  rock  cs  sakhrd,  where  Araunah 

(Inner)  had  his  threshing-floor.  The  notion 

of  some  moderns  that  the  rock  itself 
was  the  altar,  and  that  the  brazen  (bronze)  altar 
was  introduced  later,  is  devoid  of  plausibility.  An 
altar  is  always  something  reared  or  built  (cf  2  S  24 
18.2.5).  The  dimensions  of  the  altar,  which  are 
not  mentioned  in  1  K,  arc  given  in  2  Ch  4  1  as  20 
cubits  (30  ft.)  long,  20  cubits  (30  ft.)  broad,  and 
10  cubits  (1.5  ft.)  high.  As  utensils  connected  with 
it — an  incidental  confirmation  of  its  historicity — 
are  pots,  shovels,  basins  and  fleshhooks  (1  K  7  "40. 
4.5;  2  Ch  4  11.1(1).  It  will  be  observed  that  the 
assumed  halving  proportions  of  the  tabernacle  are 
here  quite  departed  from  (cf  Ex  27  1). 

(2)  The  molten  (bronze)  sect. — A  new  feature  in 
the    sanctuary    court — taking    the    place    of    the 
"laver"  in  the  tabernacle — was  the  "molten  sea," 
the  name  being  given  to  it  for  its  great  size.     It  was 


Temple 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2934 


an  immense  basin  of  bronze,  5  cubits  (7}  ft.)  high, 
10  cubits  (If)  ft.)  in  diameter  at  the  brim,  and  30 
cubits  (45  ft.)  in  circumference,  resting  on  12  bronze 
oxen,  and  placed  bet ween  t IK;  altar  and  the  Temple 
porch,  toward  the  S.  (I  K  7  2:5-2(1. 3!);  2  Ch  4 
2~f>.lO).  The  bronze  was  a  hanelbreadth  in  thick- 
ness. The  brim  was  shaped  like  the  flower  of  a 
lily,  and  encompassing  the  basin  were  ornamental 
knops.  Its  capacity  is  given  as  2,000  baths  (1  K 
7  20;  by  error  in  2  Ch  4  5,  3,000  baths).  The 
oxen  on  which  it  rested  faced  the  four  cardinal 
points — three  looking  each  way.  The  "sea,''  like 
the  laver,  doubt  less  supplied  the  water  for  the  wash- 
ing of  the  priests'  hands  and  feet  (cf  Ex  30  IS; 
38  S).  The  view  of  certain  scholars  (Kosters, 
(Junkel,  etc)  that  the  "sea"  is  connected  with  Hal) 
mythical  ideas  of  the  great  dee]")  is  quite  fanciful; 
no  hint  appears  of  such  significance  in  any  part  of 
the  narrative.  The  same  applies  to  the  lavers  in 
the  next  paragraph. 

(3)  77?o  hirer*  an  (I,  their  haws. — The  tabernacle 
laver  had  its  place  taken  by  the  "MVI"  just  described, 
but  the  Temple  was  also  provided  with  10  lavers  or 
basins,  set  on  "bases"  of  elaborate  design  and  mov- 
ing upon  wheels — the  whole  made  of  bronze  (I  K 
7  27-37).  Their  use;  seems  to  have  been  for  the 
washing  of  sacrifices  (2  Ch  4  6).  for  which  pur- 
pose; they  were  placed,  5  on  the  north  side,  and  5  on 
the  south  side,  of  the  Temple-court.  The  liases 
were  4  cubits  (6  ft.)  long,  4  cubits  broad,  and  3 
cubits  (4£  ft.)  high.  These  bases  were  of  the 
nature  of  square  paneled  boxes,  their  sides  being 
ornamented  \vith  figures  of  lions,  oxen  and  cherubim, 
with  wreathed  work  beneath.  They  had  four  feet, 
to  which  wheels  were  attached.  The  basin  rested  on 
a  rounded  pedestal,  a  cubit  high,  with  an  opening 
lj  cubits  in  diameter  to  receive  the  laver  (1  K  7 
31).  Mythological  ideas,  as  just  said,  are  here  out 
of  place. 

V.   History  of  the    Temple. — The   Temple   was 

founded  in  the  4th  year  of  Solomon's  reign  (1    K   6 

1),  and  occupied  7^  years  in  building 

1.  Building    (6  3S);    the  royal  buildings  occupied 
and  Dedi-      13  years   (7  1)  -20  years  in  all   (the 
cation  two  periods,  however,  may  in  part  svn- 

chronizei.  On  the  completion  of  the 
Temple,  the  ark  was  brought  up,  in  the  presence  of  a 
vast  assemblage,  from  Xion,  and,  with  innumerable 
sacrifices  and  thanksgiving,  was  solemnly  deposited 
in  the  Holy  of  Holies  (1  K  8  1-21;  2  Ch  5;  6 
1-11).  The  Temple  itself  was  then  dedicated  by 
Solomon  in  the  noble  prayer  recorded  in  1  K  8  22- 
61;  2  Ch  6  12-42,  followed  by  lavish  sacrifices, 
and  a  14  days'  feast.  At  its  inauguration  tin; 
house  was  filled  with  the  "glory"  of  Jeh  (1  K  8  10. 
11;  2  Ch  5  13.14). 

The   religions   declension    of   the   later   days   of 
Solomon    (1  K  11  1-X)    brought   in   its   train   dis- 
asters for  the  nation  and  the  Temple. 

2.  Repeated  On  Solomon's  death  the  kingdom  was 
Plunderings  disrupted,  and  the  Temple  ceased  to 

be  the  one  national  sanctuary.  It 
had  its  rivals  in  the  calf-shrines  set  up  by  Jeroboam 
at  Beth-el  and  Dan  (1  K  12  25-33).  In  the  5th 
year  of  Rehoboam  an  expedition  was  made  against 
Judah  by  Shishak,  king  of  Egypt,  who,  coming 
to  Jerus,  carried  away  the  treasures  of  the  Temple, 
together  with  those  of  the  king's  house,  including 
the  300  shields  of  gold  which  Solomon  had  made 
(1  K  14  25-28;  2  Ch  12  2-9).  Rehoboarn's  wife, 
Maacah,  was  an  idolatress,  and  during  the  reign  of 
Abijam,  her  son,  introduced  many  abominations 
into  the  worship  of  the  Temple  (1  K  15  2.12.13). 
Asa  cleared  these  away,  but  himself  further  depleted 
the  Temple  and  royal  treasuries  by  sending  all 
that  was  left  of  their  silver  and  gold  to  Ben-hadad, 
king  of  Syria,  to  buy  his  help  against  Baasha,  king 


of  Israel  (1  K  15  18.19).  Again  the  Temple 
was  foully  desecrated  by  Athaliah  (2  Ch  24  7), 
necessitating  the  repairs  of  Jehoash  (2  K  12  4  ff; 
2  Ch  24  4  if);  and  a  new  plundering  took  place 
in  the  reign  of  Ahaziah,  when  Jehoash  of  Israel 
carried  off  all  the  gold  and  silver  in  the  Temple  and 
palace  (2  K  14  14).  Czziah  was  smitten  with 
leprosy  for  presuming  to  enter  the  holy  place  to 
offer  incense  (2  Ch  26  10-20).  Jehoshaphat,  earlier, 
is  thought  to  have  enlarged  the  court  (2  Ch  20  5), 
and  Jot  ham  built  a  new  gate  (2  K  15  35;  2  Ch 
27  3).  The  ungodly  Aha/  went  farther  than  any 
of  his  predecessors  in  sacrilege,  for,  besides  robbing 
the  Temple  and  palace  of  their  treasures  to  secure 
the  aid  of  the  king  of  Assyria  (2  K  16  S),  he  re- 
moved the  brazen  altar  from  its  time-honored  site, 
and  set  up  a  heathen  altar  in  its  place,  removing 
likewise  the  bases  and  ornaments  of  the  lavers,  and 
the  oxen  from  under  the  brazen  (bronze)  sea  (2  K 
16  10-17). 

An  earnest  attempt  at  reform  of  religion  was  made 
by  Hezekiah  (2  K  18  1-0;   2  Ch  29  31),  but  even 

he  was  driven  to  take  all  the  gold  and 
3.  Attempts  silver  in  the  Temple  and  king's  house 
at  Reform  to  meet  the  tribute;  impeded  on  him  by 

Sennacherib,  stripping  from  the  doors 
and  pillars  the  gold  with  which  he  himself  hail  over- 
laid them  (2  K  18  14-10;  2  Ch  32  31).  Things 
became  worse  than  ever  under  Manasseh,  who  reared 
idolatrous  altars  in  the  Temple-courts,  made  an 
Asherah,  introduced  the  worship  of  the  host  of 
heaven,  had  horses  dedicaleel  to  the  sun  in  the 
Temple-court,  and  connived  at  the  worst  pollutions 
*  heathenism  in  the  sanctuary  (2  K  21  3-7; 
23  7.11).  Then  came  the  more  energetic  re-forms 
of  the  reign  e>f  Josiah,  when,  during  the  repairs  of 
the  Temple,  the  discovery  was  made  of  the;  Book  of 
the  Law,  which  led  to  a  new  covenant  with  Jeh,  a 
suppression  of  the  high  places,  and  the  themmgh 
cleansing-out  of  abuses  from  the  Temple  (2  K  22; 
23  1-25;  2  Ch  34;  35).  Still,  the  heart  of  the 
people  was  not  changed,  and,  as  seen  in  the  history, 
and  in  the;  pages  of  the  Prophets,  after  Josiah's 
death,  the  old  evils  were  soon  back  in  full  force  (cf 
e.g.  Ezk  8  7-1  S). 

The  end,  however,  was  now  at  hand.     Nebuchad- 
nezzar  made   Jehoiakim   his   tributary;     then,    on 

his  rebelling,  came,  in  the  reign  of 
4.  Final  Jehoiachin,  took  Jerus,  carried  off 
Overthrow  the  treasures  of  the  Temple  and  palnce, 

with  the  golel  of  the  Temple  vessels 


(part  had  already  been  taken  on  his  first  approach, 
2  Ch  36  7),   and  led  into  captivity  the  king,  his 
1  ousehold  and  the  chief  part  of  the  population  (2 
C  24  1-17).     Eleven  years  later   (580   BC),  after 


h 
K 

a  siege  of  18  months,  conseeruent  on  Zed'ekiah's 
rebellion  (2  K  25  1),  the;  Bab  army  completed  the 
elestruction  of  Jerus  and  the  Temple.  Only  a  few 
lesser  ute>nsils  of  value,  and  the  brazen  (bronze) 
pillars,  bases  and  sea  remained;  these  were  now 
taken  away,  the  larger  e>bjee'ts  being  bre)ken  up 
(2  K  25  13-10).  The  Temple  itself,  with  its 
connected  buildings,  and  the  houses  in  Jerus  gener- 
ally, were  set  on  fire  (ver  9).  The  ark  doubtless 
perished  in  the  conflagration,  anel  is  no  me>re  hearel  of. 
The  residue  of  the;  population — all  but  the  poorest  — 
were  carried  away  captive  (vs  11.12;  see  CAI>- 
TIVITY).  Thus  ended  the  first  Temple,  after  about 
400  years  of  chequered  existence. 

ii.     EZEKIEL'S  PROPHETIC  SKETCH 

/.  Introductory. — Wellhausen  has  saiel  that  chs 
40-48  of  Ezk  ''are  the  me>st  important  in  his  book, 
and  have  been,  not  incorrectly,  called  the  key  to 
the  OT"  (Prolegomena,  ET,  107).  lie  means  that 
Ezekiel's  legislation  represents  the  first  draft,  or 
iketch,  of  a  priestly  code,  and  that  subsequently, 


2935 


TIIE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Temple 


on  its  basis,  men  of  the  priestly  school  formulated 

the  PC  us  we  have  it,.     Without  accepting  this  view, 

dealt  with  elsewhere,   it,  is  to   be  ad- 

1.  Relation    initted  that  E/ekiel's  sketch  of  a  re- 
to  History      stored  temple  in  chs  40-43  has  impor- 
of  Temple      tant    bearings   on    UK;   history   of   (lie 

Temple,  alike  in  the  fact  that  it  presup- 
poses and  sheds  back  light  upon  the  st  ruct  ure  and  ar- 
rangements of  the  first  Temple  (Solomon's),  and  that 
in  important  respects  it,  forecasts  the  plans  of  the 
second  (Zerubbabel's)  and  of  Herod's  temples 

While,  however,  there  is  this  historical  relation, 
it  is  to  be  observed  that  Ezckiel's  temple-sketch  is 

unique,  presenting  features  not  found 

2.  Concep-    in  any  of  the  actually  built  temples. 
tion  Unique  The  temple  is,  in  truth,  an  ideal  con- 
and  Ideal       struct  ion  never  intended  to  be  literally 

realized  by  ret  urned  exiles,  or  any  ot  her 
body  of  people.  Visionary  in  origin,  the  ideas  em- 
bodied, and  not  the  actual  construction,  are  the  main 
things  to  the  prophet's  mind.  It  gives  E/ekiel's 
conception  of  what  a  perfectly  restored  temple  and 
the  service  of  Jeh  would  be  under  conditions  which 
could  scarcely  be  thought  of  as  ever  likely  literally 
to  arise.  A  literal  construction,  OIK;  inay  say, 
was  impossible.  The  site  of  the  temple  is  not  the 
old  '/Ann,  but  "a  very  high  mountain"  (40  2), 
occupying  indeed  the  place  of  Zion,  but  entirely 
altered  in  elevation,  configuration  and  general 
character.  The  temple  is  part  of  a  scheme  of  a 
transformed  land,  partitioned  in  parallel  tracts 
among  the  re-stored  12  tribes  (47  13—48  7.23-29), 
with  a  large  urea  in  the  center,  likewise  stretching 
across  the  whole  country,  hallowed  to  Jeh  and 
His  service  (48  8-22).  Supernatural  features,  as 
that  of  the  flowing  stream  from  the  temple  in  eh 
47,  abound.  It  is  unreasonable  to  suppose  that  the 
prophet,  looked  for  such  changes — some  of  them 
quite  obviously  symbolical — as  actually  impending. 
The  visionary  character  of  the  temple  has  the 
effect  of  securing  that  its  measurements  a' re  perfect  ly 

symnietrical.  The  cubit  used  is  de- 
3.  Its  Sym-  fined  as  "a  cubit  and  a  handbreadth" 
metrical  (40  5),  the  contrast  being  with  one  or 
Measure-  more  smaller  cubits  (see  CCBIT).  In 
ments  the  diversity  of  opinion  as  to  t  he  precise 

length  of  the  cubit,  it  may  be  assumed 
here  that,  it  was  the  same  sacred  cubit  employed 
in  the;  tabernacle  and  first  Temple,  and  may  be 
treated,  as  before,  as  approximately  equivalent 
to  IS  inches. 

//.  Plan  of  the  Temple. — Despite  obscurities  and 
corruption  in  the  text  of  Ezk,  the  main  outlines 
of  the  ideal  temple  can  be  made  out  without 
much  difficulty  (for  details  the  comms.  must  be 
consulted;  A.  B.  Davidson's  "E/ekiel"  in  the 
Cambridge  Bible  series  may  be  recommended; 
cf  also  Keil;  a  very  lucid  description  is  given  in 
Skinner's  "Book  of  Ezk,"  in  the  Expositor's  Bible, 
406-13;  for  a  different  view,  see  Caldecott,  The 
Second  Temple  in  J eras'). 

The  temple  was  inclosed  in  two  courts — an  outer  and 
an    inner — quite   different,  however,  in  character    and 
arrangement    from     those    of     the     first 
1.   Outer          Temple.     The  outer  court,  as  shown    bv 
Tmirt  the   separate   measurements    (ef    Keil    oh 

40  27),  was  a  large  square  of  500  cubits 
(..>()  ft.),  bounded  by  a  wall  (i  cubits 
(9  ft.)  thick  and  0  cubits  high  (40  5).  The  wall 
was  pierced  in  the  middle  of  its  north,  east  and 
south  sides  by  massive  gateways,  extending  into  the 
court  to  a  distance  of  50  cubits  (75  ft  )  with  a  width 
of  25  cubits  (37'  ft.).  On  either  side  of  the  passage  in 
these  gateways  were  three  guardrooms,  each  (i  cubits 
square  (ver  7  m),  and  each  gateway  terminated  in  a 
"porch,"  8  cubits  (12  ft.)  long  (ver  9),  and  apparently 
(thus  LXX,  ver  14;  the  Heb  text  si-ems  corrupt)  20 
cubits  across.  The  ascent  to  the  gateways  was  by  seven 
steps  (ver  (S;  cf  vs  22.2(5),  showing  that  the  level  of  the 
court  was  to  this  extent,  higher  than  the  ground  outside 
Round  the  court,  on  the  three  sides  named — its  edge 


Ezekiel's  Temple  Plan. 

The  inner  court  was  a  square  of  100  cubits  (150  ft  ) 

situated  exactly  in  the  center  of  the  larger  court  (40  47)! 

It,  too.  was  surrounded  bv  a  wall,  and  had 

2.  Inner          gateways,   with  guardrooms,   etc,   similar 
Tmirt  to   tnosc  °I   the   outer   court,   saving   that 

the  gateways  projected  outward  (50 
cubits),  not  inward.  The  gates  of  outer 
and  inner  courts  were  opposite  to  each  other  on  the  N 
E.,  and  S.,  a  hundred  cubits  apart  (vs  I9.23.i>7;  the  whole 
space,  therefore,  from  wall  to  wall  was  50  and  100  and 
50=200  cubits).  The  ascent  to  the  gales  in  this  case 
was  by  eight  steps  (ver  37),  indicating  another  rise  in 
level  for  the  inner  court.  There  were  two  chambers  at 
the  sides  of  the  north  and  south  gates  respectivelv  one 
for  Levites,  the  other  for  priests  (vs  44-4(5;  cf  m)-  at 
the  gates  also  (perhaps  only  at  the  north  gate)  were 
stone  tables  for  slaughtering  (vs  39  415).  In  the  center 
of  this  inner  court,  was  the  great,  altar  of  burnt  offering 
(43  14-17) — a  structure  IS  cubits  (27  ft.)  square  at,  the 
base,  and  rising  in  four  stages  (1,2,  4,  and  4  cubits  high 
respectively,  vs  14.15).  till  it  formed  a  square  of  12  cubits 
(18ft.)  at  the  top  or  hearth,  with  four  horns  at  the  corners 
(vs  15.16)  Steps  led  up  to  it  on  the  K.  (ver  17).  See 
ALTAR  OF  BURNT  OFFERING. 

The  inner  court  was  extended  westward  by  a  second 
square  of  100  cubits,  within  which,  on  a  platform  elevated 
o  T>  i  another  (5  cubits  (!)  ft.),  stood  the  temple 

3.  Temple      proper  and  its  connected  buildings  (41  S). 
Building          Tais  P'atform  or  basement  is  shown  by  the 

.  measurements  to  be  (50  cubits  broad   (X. 

and  S.)  and  105  cubits  long  (K.  and  W.)— 
Adjuncts  5  cubits  projecting  into  the  eastern  square. 

The  ascent  to  the  temple-porch  was  bv  10 
steps  (40  49;  LXX,  KVm).  The  temple  itself  was  a 
building  consisting,  like  Solomon's,  of  three  parts — a  porch 
at,  the  entrance,  20  cubits  (30  ft.)  broad  by  12  cubits 
(18  ft.)  deep  (so  most,  following  LXX,  as  required  bv  tin- 
other  measurements);  the  holv  place;  or  hfkhal  40 
cubits  (00  ft.)  long  by  20  cubits  '(30  ft.)  broad;  anil  the 
most  holy  place,  20  cubits  by  20  (40  4S.49;  41  1-4)- 
the  measurements  are  internal.  At  the  sides  of  the  porch 
stood  two  pillars  (40  49),  corresponding  to  the  Jachin 
and  Boaz  of  the  older  Temple.  The  holy  and  the  most 


Temple 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


holy  places  were  separated  by  a  partition  2  cubits  in 
thickness  (41  3;  so  most  interpret).  The  most  holy 
place  was  empty;  of  the  furniture  of  the  holy  place  men- 
lion  is  made  only  (if  an  altar  of  wood  (ver  22;  see  AI.TAH 
A,  111,7;  15.  Lli,  3).  Walls  and  doors  -were  ornamented 
with  cherubim  and  palm  trees  <vs  is.  25).  Tim  wall  of 
(he  temple  building  was  0  cubits  (9  ft.)  in  thickness  (41 
.">),  and  on  the  north,  south,  and  west  sides,  as  in  Solo- 
mon's Temple,  there  were  side-chambers  in  t  hree  stories, 
:«)  in  number  (41  o;  in  each  story  ?),  wit  h  an  outer  wall 
5  cubits  1,7'.  ft.)  in  thickness  (ver  «.)).  These  chambers 
were,  on  the  basement,  -1  cubits  broad;  in  the  2d  and 
:!d  stories,  owing,  as  in  the  older  Temple,  to  rebaternents 
in  the  wall.  perhaps  5  and  <>  cubits  broad  respectively 
(vs  (i.7;  in  Solomon's  Temple  the  side-chambers  were 
5,  0,  and  7  cubits,  1  K  6  <>K  These  dimensions  give 
a  total  external  breadth  to  the  house  of  50  cubits  (with 
a  length  of  1OO  cubits  i,  leaving  5  cubits  on  either  side 
and  in  the  front,  as  a  passage  round  the  edge  of  the  plat- 
form on  which  the,  building  stood  (described  as  "that 
which  was  left")  (vs  <U1).  The  western  end,  as  far 
as  the  outer  wail,  was  occupied,  the  whole  breadth  of  the 
inner  court,  by  a  large  building  (ver  12);  all  but  a  pas- 
sago  of  20  cubits  (:(()  ft.)  between  it  and  the  temple, 
belonging  to  what  is  termed  "the  separate  place" 
(i/i,rriili,  vs  12.K1,  etc*).  The  temple-platform  being 
only  GO  cubits  broad,  1  here  remained  a  space  of  20  cubits 
(:?()'  ft.)  on  t  he  noil  li  and  south  sides,  running  the  entire 
length  of  tin-  platform;  lliis.  continued  round  the  back, 
formed  the  yizrnh,  or  "separate  pl_ace"  just  named. 
Beyond  the  gizrtlh  for  5()  cubits  (,5  ft.)  were  other 
chambers,  apparently  in  two  rows,  the  inner  100  cubits, 
t  ho  outer  50  cubits,  long,  with  a  walk  of  10  cubits  between 
!42  1-lU  the  passage,  however,  is  obscure;  some, 
as  Keil,  place  the.  "walk"  outside  the.  chambers). 
These  chambers  were  assigned  to  the  priests  for  the  eat- 
ing of  "the  most  holy  things"  (ver  i:i).  Scu  GALI.IOKY. 

Such,  in  general,  was  the  sanctuary  of  the 
prophet's  vision,  the  outer  and  inner  courts  _  of 
which,  and,  crowning  all,  the  temple,  itself,  rising 
in  successive  terraces,  presented  to  his  inner  eye 
an  imposing  spectacle  which,  in  labored  description, 
he  seeks  to  enable  his  readers  likewise  to  visuali/e. 


III.       THE    TKMI'LE    OF    ZK 

/.   Introductory.  —  Forty-eight  years  al'ier  Nebu- 

cliadne//ar's    destruction    of    the  first    Temple,  the 

Bab  empire  came  to  an  end  (5:>S  BC  \ 

1.  The  and    Persia    became    dominant    under 
Decree  of       Cyrus.      In  the  year  following,  Cyrus 
Cyrus  made  a  decree  sanctioning  the  return 

of  the  Jews,  and  ordering  the  rebuild- 
ing of  the  Temple  at  .lerus  (2  Ch  36  23;  E/r  1 
1—4).  lie  not  only  caused  the  sacred  vessels  of  the 
old  Temple  to  be  restored,  but  levied  a  tax  upon  his 
western  provinces  to  provide  materials  for  the  build- 
ing, besides  what  was  offered  willingly  (E/r  1  6-11; 
6  3  if).  The  relatively  small  number  of  exiles 
\\-\\o  chose  to  return  for  this  work  (40.000)  were 
led  by  Shoshhazzar,  "the  prince  of  -ludah"  (E/r  1 
11),  whom  some  identify  with  Zerubbabel,  likewise 
named  ''governor  of  Judah"  (Hag  1  1).  With 
these,  if  they  were  distinct,  was  associated  Joshua 
the  high  priest  (in  E/r  and  Neh  called  ".leshua"). 
The  first  work  of  Joshua  and  Zerubbabel  was  the 
building  of  the  altar  on  its  old  site  in  the  7th  month 

of    the    return    (E/r  3  3  ff).     Masons 

2.  Founding  and  carpenters  were  engaged  for   the 
of  the  building  of  the  house,  and  the  Phoeni- 
Temple  cians     were     requisitioned     for     cedar 

wood  from  Lebanon  (ver  7).  In  the 
2d  year  the  foundations  of  the  temple  were  laid 
with  dignified  ceremonial,  amid  rejoicing,  and  the 
weeping  of  the  older  men,  who  remembered  the 
former  house  (vs  8-13). 

The  work   soon   met   with   opposition  from  the 

mixed  population  of  Samaria,  whose  offer  to  join 

it  had  been  refused;  host  ile  representa- 

3.  Opposi-     tions,    which    proved    successful,    were 
tion  and         made  to   the   Pers  king;    from  which 
Completion   causes    the    building    was    suspended 
of  the  Work  about    15   years,    till   the  2d   year    of 

Darius  Hystaspis  (520  BC;  Ear  4). 
On  the  other  hand,  the  prophets  Haggai'and  Zecha- 
riah  stimulated  the  flagging  zeal  of  the  builders,  and, 
new  permission  being  obtained,  the  work  was  re- 


sumed, and  proceeded  so  rapidly  that  in  516  BC 
the  temple  was  completed,  anil  was  dedicated  with 
joy  (E/r  5,  6). 

//.    The     Temple    Structure. — Few    details     are 

available  regarding  this  temple  of  Zerubbabel.     It 

stood   on  the    ancient   site,    and   may 

1.  The  have  been  influenced   in   parts  of   its 
House  plan  by  the  desciiptions  of  the  temple 

in  E/k.  The  inferiority  to  the  first 
Temple,  alluded  to  in  E/r  3  12  and  Hag  2  3,  plainly 
cannot  refer  to  its  size,  for  its  dimensions  as  spec- 
ified in  the  decree  of  Cyrus,  viz.  GO  cubits  in 
height,  and  60  cubits  in  breadth  (Ezr  6  3;  there 
is  no  warrant  for  confining  the,  60  cubits  of  height 
to  the  po:-ch  only;  cf  Jos,  Anl,  XI,  i),  exceed 
considerably  those  of  the  Temple  of  Solomon  (side- 
chambers  are  no  doubt-  included  in  the  breadth). 
The  greater  glory  of  the  former  Temple  can  only 
refer  to  adornment,  and  to  the  presence  in  it  of 
objects  wanting  in  the  second.  The  Mish  declares 
that  the  second  temple  lacked  five  things  present  in 
the  first — the  ark,  the  sacred  fire,  the  nli<i,-lilndh,  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  the  I'rim  and  Thummim  (Ydma', 
xxi.2). 

The  temple  was  divided,   like   its   predecessor, 

into  a  holy  and  a  most  holy  place,  doubtless  in 

similar  proportions.     In  1  Mace  1  22 

2.  Its  Di-       mention  is  made  of  the  "veil"  between 
visions  and    the  two  places.     The  most  holy  place, 
Furniture       as  just  said,  was  empty,   save;  for  a 

stone  on  which  the  high  priest,  on  the 
prorit  Day  of  Atonement,  placed  his  censer  (Yr»nn\ 
v.2j.  The  holy  place  had  its  old  furniture,  but  on 
the'  simpler  scale  of  the  tabernacle — a  golden  altar 
of  incense,  a  single  table  of  shewbroad,  one  7- 
branched  candlestick.  These  were  taken  away 
by  Antiochus  Epiphanes  (1  Mace  1  21.22V  At 
the  cleansing  of  the  sanctuary  after  its  profanation 
by  this  prince,  they  were  renewed  by  Judas  Macca- 
baeus  (1  Mace.  4  41  ft').  Judas  pulled  down  also 
the  old  desecrated  altar,  and  built  a  new  one  (vs 
44  ff). 

The  second  temple  had  two  courts  —  an  outer  and 
an  inner  (1  Mace  4  US. 48;  9  5-1;  Jos,  Ant.  XIV,xvi,2) 

—  planned  apparently  on  the  model  of 
3^  Jtg  those  in  Kzk.  A.  K.  S.  Kennedy  infers 

„*  from  the  measure-iients  in  the  Ilnnnn 

L/OUrts,  that  "the  area  of  the  great  court  of  tho 

Altar,  etc  second  temple,  before  it  was  enlarged  by 

Herod  on  tho  S.  and  E.,  followed  that  of 
Ezekiel's  outer  court — that  is,  it  measured  ,r>00  cubits 
each  wav  with  the  sacred  rock  precisely  in  tho  center" 
(/•.'.(• /'"••<  V'.  XX,  1S1>).  The  altar  on  this  old  snkhrd  site 

-  the  first,  thing  of  all  to  be  "set  on  its  base"'(Ezr  3  '•>>} 

-  is  shown  by  1  Mace  4  47  and  a  passage  quoted  by  Jos 
from   Hecataeus    (<'.\i>,   I,   xxii)    to   have  been   built  of 
unhewn   stones.      Hecataeus   gives   its   dimensions   as    a 
square  of  L'O  cubits  and  10  cubits  in  height.     There  seems 
to  have  been  free  access  to  this  inner  court  till  the  time 
of  Alexander  Jannaeus  (10-1-78  HO,  who, pelted  by  tho 
crowd  as  he  sacrificed,  fenced  off  the  part  of  the  court  in 
front  of  the  altar,  so  that  no  layman  could  come  farther 
(Jos     Ant    XIII,  xiii,  5).     The  courts  were  colonnaded 
(  \>it    XI    iv    7-  XIV,  xvi,  2),  and,  with  the  house,  had 
numerous  chambers  (cf  Neh  12  44;   13  4  if,  etc). 

A  brief  contemporary  description  of  this  Temple  and 
its  worship  is  given  in  An'. it  run,  s:{-104.  This  writer's 
interest,  however,  was  absorbed  chiefly  by  the  devices  for 
carrying  away  the  sacrificial  blood  and  by  the  technique 
of  tiie  otlieiating  priests. 

The  vicissitudes  of  this  temple  in  its  later  history 
are  vividly  recorded  in  1  Mace,  and  in  Jos.  In 

Ecclus  50  is  given  a  glimpse  of  a  cer- 
4.  Later  tain  Simon,  son  of  Onias,  who  repaired 
Fortunes  the  temple,  and  a  striking  picture  is 

furnished  of  the  magnificence  of  the 
worship  in  his  time.  The  desecration  and  pil- 
laging of  the  sanctuary  by  Antiochus,  and  its 
cleansing  and  restoration  under  Judas  are  alluded 
to  above  (see  HASMOXEANS;  MACCABEANS).  At 
length  Judaea  became  an  integral  part  of  the  Rom 
empire.  In  6(i  BC  Potnpey,  having  taken  the 
temple-hill,  entered  the  most  holy  place,  but  kept 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBhE  KXCVChOPAKDIA 


Temple 


his  hands  oil  the  temple-treasures  (Ant,  XIV,  iv, 
4).  $01110  years  later  Crassus  carried  away  every- 
thing of  value  lie  could  iind  (Ant,  XIV,  vii,  1). 
The  people  revolted,  hut  Home  remained  victorious. 
This  brings  us  to  the  lime  of  Herod,  who  was  nomi- 
nated king  of  .Judaea  by  Rome  in  39  BC,  but  did  not 
attain  actual  power  until  two  years  later. 

IV.       THK   TKMPI,ti    OF    IIKHOI) 

/.  Introductory.—  He  rod  became  king  de,  facto 
by  the  capture-  of  .Jems  in  37  BC.  $ome  years 

later  lie  built,  Hie  fortress  Antonia 
1.  Initiation  to  the  N.  of  the  temple  (before  31  BC). 
of  the  Work  Midway  in  his  reign,  assigning  a 

religious  motive  for  his  purpose,  he 
formed  the  project,  of  rebuilding  the  temple  itself 
on  a  grander  wale  (Jos  gives  conflicting  dates; 
in  Anl,  XV,  xi,  1,  he  says  "in  his  18th  year";  in  BJ , 

1,  xxi,  1,  he  names  his  15th  year;    the  hitter  date, 
as   Sehuror    suggests    [CJV\    1,    309],     may  _  refer 
to  the  extensive  preparations).     To  allay  the  (list  rust 
of  his  subjects,  he  undertook  that,  the  materials  for 
the  now  building  should  bo  collected  before  the  old 
was  taken  down;    he  likewise  trained  1,000  priests 
to   be   masons  and   carpenters  for  work  upon   the 
sanctuary;    10,000  skilled  workmen  altogether  were 
employed  upon  the  task.     The  building  was  com- 
menced in  20-19  BC.     The  nans,  or  temple  proper, 
was  finished  in  a  year  and  a  half,  but  it  took  8  years 
to   complete  the  courts  and   cloisters.      The  total 
erection  occupied  a  much  longer  time  (cf  Jn  2  20, 
"Forty  and  six  years,"  etc);    indeed  the  work  was 
not  entirely  completed  till  04  AD — 6  years  before 
its  destruction  by  the  Romans. 

Built  of  white  marble,  covered  with  heavy  plates 
of  gold  in  front   and  rising  high  above  its  marble- 
cloistered  courts — themselves  a  sueeos- 

2.  Its  sion  of  terraces — the  temple,  compared 
Grandeur       by  Jos  to    a   snow-covered    mountain 

(BJ,  V,  v,  0),  was  a  conspicuous  and 
dazzling  object  from  every  side.  The  general  struc- 
ture is  succinctly  described  by  (1.  A.  Smith :  "Herod's 
temple  consisted  of  a  house  divided  like  its  prede- 
cessor into  the  Holy  of  Holies,  and  the  Holy  Place; 
a  porch;  an  immediate  fore-court  with  an  altar  of 
burnt  offering;  a  Court  of  Israel;  in  front  of  this 
a  Court  of  Women;  and  round  the  whole  of  the 
preceding,  a  Court  of  the  Gentiles"  (Jems,  II,  502). 
On  the  "four  courts,"  cf  Jos,  CAp,  II,  viii. 

The  original  authorities  on  Herod's  temple  are  chiefly 
the  descriptions  in  .Jos  (.1  >,t,  XV,  xi,  :*,  5;  1U ,  V,  v,  etc), 

and  the  tractate  Middoth  in  tho  Mish. 
o  An+Vmri  The  data  in  those  authorities,  however, 

do  not  always  ajiree.  The  most  helpful 
ties  modern  descriptions,  with  plans,  will  bo 

found,  with  dill'crcncos  in  details,  in  Keil, 
Bib  \rcliaco1oiiu,  I,  lS7tf;  in  FerKusson,  Temples  of 
the  Jews;  in  the  arts.  "Temple"  in  11DH  (T.  Wittpn 
navies)  and  Eli  ((!.  II.  Box);  in  tho  important  series 
of  papers  by  A.  11.  S.  Kennedy  in  Kjpos  T  (vol  XX), 
"Some  Problems  of  Herod's  Temple"  (cf  his  art. 
'•Temple"  in  one-vol  l)Ii);  in  Sanday's  Sacn-il  Kite* 
of  the  Gospels  (VVaterhouse) ;  latterly  in  G.  A.  Smith, 
Jerus,  II,  4!)<)fT. 

Differences  of  opinion  continue  as  to  the  sacred  cubit. 
A.  R.  S.  Kennedy  thinks  the  cubit  can  bo  definitely 

fixed  at  17.C)  in.  (Expos  T,  XX,  24  tt ) ; 
A.  TVTpac  <-•'•  A.  Smith  reckons  it  at  20.  (57  in.  (Jerus, 

*•  lvlectb'  n  f,04);  T.  Wilton  Davies  estimates 
urements  it  at  about  18  in.  (IIDB,  IV,  71U),  etc. 

W.  S.  Caldeoott  takes  the  cubit  of  Jos 
and  the  MidJoth  to  be  11  ft.  It  will  suffice  in  this 
sketch  to  treat  the  cubit,  as  before,  as  approximately 
equivalent  to  IS  in. 

//.  The  Temple  and  Its  Courts. — Jos  states  that 
tho  area  of  Herod's  temple  was  double  that  of  its 

predecessor  (BJ,  I,  xxi,  1).  The 
1.  Temple  Mish  (Mid.,  ii.2j  gives  the  area  as  f>00 
Area—  cubits  (roughly  _  750  ft.);_Jos  (Ant, 

Court  of  XV,  xi,  3)  gives  it  as  a  stadium  (about 
Gentiles  000  (!r  ft.);  but  neither  measure  is 

cmite  exact.  It  is  generally  agreed 
that  on  its  east,  west  and  south  skies  Herod's 


area  corresponded  pretty  nearly  with  the  limits  of 
the  present,  Hard///  area  (see  JKKCSALKM),  but  that 
it  did  not  extend  as  far  X.  as  the  latter  (Kennedy 
states  the  difference!  at  about  20  as  compared  with 
35  acres,  and  makes  the  whole  perimeter  to  be  about 
1,420  yards,  ut  supra,  00).  The  shape  was  an 
irregular  oblong,  broader  at,  the  N.  than  at,  the 
$.  The  whole  was  surrounded  by  a  .strong  wall, 
with  several  gates,  the  number  and  position  of 
some  of  which  are  still  matters  of  dispute.  Jos 
mentions  four  gates  on  the  \V.  (Ant,  XV,  xi,  5), 
the  principal  of  which,  named  in  M  id.,  i.3,  "the  gate 
of  Kiponos,"  was  connected  by  a  "bridge  across  the 
Tyropot'on  with  the  city  (when;  no\v  is  Wilson's 
Arch).  The  same  authority  speaks  of  two  gales  on 
the  S.  These,  are  identified  with  the  "Iluldah" 
(mole)  gates  of  tin;  Mish  --the  present  Double  and 
Triple  dates — which,  opening  low  down  in  the  wall, 
slope  up  in  tunnel  fashion  into  the  interior  of  tin; 
court.  The  Mish  puts  a  gate  also  on  the  north  and 
one  on  the  east,  side.  The  latter  may  be  represented 
by  the  modern  dolden  Gate— a  Byzantine  structure, 
now  built  up.  This  great  court — known  later  as 
the  "Court  of  the  dentiles,"  because  open  to  every- 
one— was  adorned  with  splendid  porticos  or  clois- 
ters. The  colonnade  on  the  south  side — known  as 
the  Royal  Porch — was  specially  magnificent.  It 
consisted  of  four  rows  of  monolit  hie  marble  columns 
— 102  in  all — with  Corinthian  capitals,  forming  three 
aisles,  of  which  the  middle  was  broader  and  double 
the  height  of  the  other  two.  The  roofing  was  of 
carved  cedar.  The  north,  west,  and  east  sides  had 
only  double  colonnades.  That  on  the  cast  side  was 
the  "Solomon's  Porch"  of  the  NT  (Jn  10  23;  Acts 
3  11;  5  19).  There  were  also  chambers  for  officials, 
and  perhaps  a  place  of  meeting  for  the  Sanhedrin 
(beth  din)  (Jos  places  this  elsewhere).  In  the  wide 
spaces  of  this  court  took  place  the  buying  and  sell- 
ing described  in  the  Gospels  (Mt  21  12  and  j.'s; 
Jn  2  13  ff). 

(1)  Wall,  "licl,"  "sorc(/h,"  gates. — In  the  upper 
or  northerly  part  of  this  large  area,  on  a  much 
higher  level,  bounded  likewise;  by  a 
2.  Inner  wall,  was  a  second  or  inner  inclosure 
Sanctuary  the  "sanctuary"  in  the  stricter  sense 
Inclosure  (Jos,  BJ,  V,  v,  2) — comprising  the 
court  of  the  women,  the  court  of  Israel 
and  the  priests'  court,  with  the  temple  itself  (Jos, 
Ant,  XV,  xi,  5).  The  surrounding  wall,  according 
to  Jos  (BJ,  V,  v,  2),  was  40  cubits  high  on  the  out- 
side, and  25  on  the  inside — a  difference  of  15  cubits; 
its  thickness  was  5  cubits.  Since,  however,  the 
inner  courts  wore  considerably  higher  than  the 
court  of  the  women,  the  difference  in  height  may 
have  been  some  cubits  less  in  the  latter  than  in  the 
former  (cf  the  different  measurements  in  Kennedy, 
ut  supra,  182),  a  fact  which  may  explain  the  difficulty 
felt  as  to  the  number  of  the  steps  in  the  ascent 
(see  below).  Round  the  wall  without,  at  least  on 
three  sides  (some  except  the  W.),  at  a  height  of  12 
(Mid.)  or  14  (Jos)  stops,  was  an  embankment  or 
terrace,  known  as  the  hel  (fortification),  10  cubits 
broad  (Mid.  says  0  cubits  high),  and  inclosing  the 
whole  was  a  low  balustrade  or  stone  parapet  (Jos 
says  3  cubits  high)  called  the  soregli,  to  which  were 
attached  at  intervals  tablets  with  notices  in  Gr 
and  hat,  prohibiting  entry  to  foreigners  on  pain  of 
death  (see  PARTITION,  WALL  OF).  From  within  the 
sorcyh  ascent  was  made  to  the  level  of  the  hcl  by 
the  stops  aforesaid,  and  five  steps  more  led  up  to  the 
gates  (the  reckoning  is  probably  to  the  lower  level 
of  the  women's  court ).  Xine  gates,  with  two-storied 
gatehouses  "like  towers"  (Jos,  BJ ,  V,  v,  3),  are  men- 
tioned, four  on  the  X.,  four  on  the  S.,  and  one  on  the 
E. — the  last  probably  to  be  identified,  though  this 
is  still  disputed  (Waterhouse,  etc),  with  the  "Gate 
of  Xicanor"  (Mid.),  or  "Corinthian  Gate"  (Jos), 


Temple 


INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2938 


which  is  undoubtedly  "the  Beautiful  (late"  of 
Acts  3  2.10  (see  for'  identification,  Kennedy,  tit 
supra,,  270).  This  principal  gate  received  its  names 
from  being  the  gift  of  a  wealthy  Alexandrian  Jew, 
Xicanor,  and  from  its  being  made  of  Corinthian 
brass.  It  was  of  great  size  —  50  cubits  high  and  40 
cubits  wide— and  was  richly  adorned,  its  brass  glit- 
tering like  gold  (Mill.,  ii.3).  See  BKArriFri,  GATK. 
The  other  gates  were  covered  with  gold  and  silver 
(Jos,  B.I,  V,  V,  3). 

(2)  Court    of    the,    u'omcn. — The    eastern    gate, 
approached  from    the  outside   by    12    Meps  (Mill., 
ii.3;    Maimonides),  admitted  into  the  court  of  the 
women,  so  called  because  it  was  accessible  to  women 
as  well  as  to  men.     Above  its  single  colonnades  were 
galleries  reserved   for  the  use  of  women.     Its  di- 
mensions are  given  in  the  Mish  as  135  cubits  square 
(Mid.,  ii.5>.but  this  need  not  be  precise.     At  its  four 
corners  were  large  roofless  rooms  for  storage  and 
other  purposes.      Near  the  pillars  of  the  colonnades 
were    13    trumpet-shaped    boxes   for  receiving   the 
money-offerings  of  the  people  (cf  the  incident  of  the 
widow's  mite.  Mk  12  41  fi;    Lk  21   1  ffj;   forwhich 
reason,  and  because  this  court   seems  to  have  been 
the  place  of  deposit,  of    the    temple-treasures  gen- 
erally, it    bore  the  name  ''treasury"  (gazophukildon, 
Jn  8  20).     See  TRKASTKY. 

(3)  The  inner  court.  --From  the  women's  court, 
the  ascent- was  made  by  15  semicircular  steps  (M id., 
ii..~>;     on     these   steps     the     Levites    chanted,    and 
beneath  them  their  instruments  were  kept)  to  the 
inner  court,  comprising,  at  different  levels,  the  court 
of  Israel  and  the  court  of  the  priests.     Here,  again, 
at   the  entrance,   was  a  lofty,   richly  ornamented 
gate,  which  some,  as  said,   prefer  to  regard  as  the 
(late    of    Xicanor    or    Heautil'ul    (late.      Probably, 
however,  the  view  above  taken,  which  places  this 
gate  at    the  outer  entrance,  is  correct.     The  Mish 
gives  the  total  dimensions  of  the  inner  court  as  ]S7 
cubits  long  (E.  to  \\ .')  and  135  cubits  wide  (Mid., 
ii.G;   v.l).     Originally  the  court  was  one,  but  dis- 
turbances   in    the    time    of    Alexander    Jannaeus 
(104-7S  BC)  led,  as   formerly  told,  to  the  greater 
part    being  railed  off  for  the  exclusive  use  of  the 
priests  (Jos,    Ant,  XIII,  xiii,  5).     Jn  the  Mish  the 
name  "court  of  the  priests"  is  used  in  a  restricted 
sense  to  denote  tin*  space — 11  cubits — between  the 
altar  and  "the   court-  of  Israel"    (sec  the  detailed 
measurements    in    Mid.,    v.l).      The    latter  -"the 
court  of  Israel" — 2.1  cubits  lower  than  "the  court  of 
the  priests,"   and   separated  from   it  by  a  pointed 
fence,  was  likewise  a  narrow  strip  of  only  11  cubits 
(Mid.,  ii.G;    v.l).     Jos,  with  more  probability,  car- 
ries the  11   cubits  of  the  "court    of  Israel"  round 
the  whole  of  the  temple-court  (BJ,  V,  vi).     \Vater- 
house  (Surr<-il  N//r.s,  112)  thinks  11  cubits  too  small 
for  a  court  of  male  Israelites,  and  supposes  a  much 
larger  inclosure,  but  without  warrant  in  the  authori- 
ties   (cf    Kennedy,   ut  supra,    183;     G.    A.    Smith, 
Jems,   II,   508  ff). 

(4)  The    altar,    etc. — In    the    priests'    court    the 
principal  object  was  the  great  altar  of  burnt  offering, 
situated  on  the  old  site — the  snkhra — immediately 
in  front  of  the  porch  of  the  temple  (at  22  cubits 
distance — the  space  "between  the  temple  and  the 
altar"  of  Mt  23  35).     The  altar,  according  to  the 
Mish  (Mid.,  iii.l),  was  82  cubits  square,  and,  like 
Ezekiel's,   rose  in   stages,   each   diminishing   by   a 
cubit:    one  of  1  cubit  in  height,  three  of  5  cubits, 
which,    with    deduction    of   another   cubit   for   the 
priests  to  walk  on,  left  a.  square  of  24  cubits  at  the  top. 
It  had  four  horns.     Jos,  on  the  other  hand,  gives  .50 
cubits  for  the  length   and  breadth,  and   15  cubits 
for  the  height  of  the  altar  (BJ,  V,  v,  G) — his  reckon- 
ing perhaps  including  a  platform   (a  cubit  high?) 
from  which  the  height  is  taken  (see  ALTAR).     The 
altar  was  built  of  unhewn  stones,  and  had  on  the 


S.  a  sloping  ascent  of  like  material,  32  cubits  in 
length  and  l(i  in  width.  Between  temple  and 
altar,  toward  theS.,  stood  the  "laver"  for  the  priests. 
In  the  court,  on  the  north  side,  were  rings,  hooks, 
and  tables,  for  the  slaughtering,  flaying  and  sus- 
pending of  the  sacrificial  victims. 

(1)    HOHNC,  and  porch. — Yet  another  flight  of  12 
steps,   occupying  most  of  the  space  between  the 

temple-porch  and  the  altar,  led  up  to 
3.  The  the  platform  (G  cubits  high)  on  which 

Temple  stood    the    temple    itself.     This    mag- 

Building         nificent  structure,  built,  as  said  before, 

of  blocks  of  white  marble,  richly  orna- 
mented with  gold  on  front  and  sides,  exceeded  in 
dimensions  and  splendor  all  previous  temples. 


Front  Elevation  of  Temple. 

The  numbers  in  the  Mish  and  in  Jos  arc  in  parts 
discrepant,  but  the  general  proportions  can  readily 
be  made  out.  The  building  with  its  platform  rose 
to  the  height  of  100  cubits  (150  ft.;  the  120  cubits 
in  Jos,  Aid,  XV.  xi,  3,  is  a  mistake),  and  was  GO 
cubits  (00  ft.)  wide.  It  was  fronted  by  a  porch  of 
like  height,  but  with  wings  extending  20  cubits  (30 
ft.)  on  each  side  of  the  temple,  making  the  total 
breadth  of  the  vestibule  100  cubits  (150_ft.)  also. 
The  depth  of  the  porch  was  10  or  11  cubits;  prob- 
ably at  the  wings  20  cubits  (Jos).  The  entrance, 
without  doors,  was  70  cubits  high  and  25  cubits 
wide  (Mid.  makes  40  cubits  high  and  20  wide). 
Above  it  Herod  placed  a  golden  eagle,  which  the 
Jews  afterward  pulled  down  (Ant,  XVII,  vi,  3). 
The  porch  was  adorned  with  gold. 

(2)  "  Ilekhar  ami  ''d'hlilr." — Internally,  the 
temple  was  divided,  as  before,  into  a  holy  place 
(//r/,7/<7/)  and  a  most  holy  (d'1»h7r) — the  former 
measuring,  as  in  Solomon's  Temple,  40  cubits 
(GO  ft.)  in  length,  and  20  cubits  (30  ft.)  in  breadth; 
the  height,  however,  was  double  that  of  the  older 
Temple — GO  cubits  (00  ft.;  thus  Keil,  etc,  follow- 
ing Jos,  B.I,  V,  v,  5).  Mid.,  iv.G,  makes  the  height 
only  40  cubits;  A.  R.  S.  Kennedy  and  G.  A.  Smith 
make  the  (H>/nr  a  cube — 20  cubits  in  height  only. 
In  the  space  that  remained  above  the  holy  places, 
upper  rooms  (40  cubits)  were  erected.  The  holy 
place  was  separated  from  the  holiest  by  a  partition 
one  cubit  in  thickness,  before  which  hung  an  em- 
broidered curtain  or  "veil" — that  which  was  rent 
at  the  death  of  Jesus  (Mt  27  51  and  ||'s;  Mid,,  iv.7, 
makes  two  veils,  with  a  space  of  a  cubit  between 
them).  The  Holy  of  Holies  was  empty;  only  a 
stone  stood,  as  in  the  temple  of  Zerubbabel,  on 
which  the  high  priest  placed  his  censer  on  the  Day 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIHLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Temple 


of  Atonement  (Mish,  Yoina,  \.'2).  In  the  lioly 
place  were  the  altar  of  incense,  the  table  of  shew- 
bread  (N.),  and  the  seven-branched  golden  candle- 
stick (S.).  Representations  of  I  lie  two  lat  ter  are  seen 
in  (lie  carvings  on  the  Arch  of  Titus  (see  SHKW- 
URKAD,  TAHIJO  OF;  CAMMJ:STICK,  (  IOLDK.N).  The 
spaci(jus  entrance!  to  the  holy  place  had  folding 
doors,  before  which  hung  a  richly  variegated  Bab 
curtain.  Above  the  entrance  was  a  golden  vine 
with  clusters  as  large  as  a  man  (Jos,  Ant,  XV,  xi, 
3;  BJ,  V,  v,  4). 

(3)  The  siilc-clunitbcrx. — The  walls  of  the  temple 
appear  to  have  been  f>  cubits  thick,  and  against 
these,  on  the  N.,  \\  .,  and  S.,  were  built,  as  in  Solo- 
mon's Temple,  side-chambers  in  three  stories,  (it) 
cubits  in  height,  and  ]()  cubits  in  widt  h  (the  figures, 
however,  are  uncertain),  which,  with  the  outer 
walls,  made  the  entire  breadth  of  the  house  o()  or 
70  cubits.  Mid.,  iv. 3,  gives  the  number  of  the 
chambers  as  3S  in  all.  The  roof,  which  Keil  speaks 
of  as  "sloping"  (liib.  Archaeology,  I,  199).  had 
gilded  spikes  to  keep  off  the  birds.  A  balustrade; 
surrounded  it  3  cubits  high.  Windows  are  not 
mentioned,  but  there  would  doubtless  be  openings 
for  light  into  the  holy  place  from  above  the  side- 
chambers. 

///.   NT   Associations     of    Herod's     Temple. — 

Herod's  temple  figures  so  prominently  in  NT  history 

that    it   is  not   necessary   to  do  more 

1.  Earlier       than   refer  to  some  of  the  events  of 
Incidents       which  it  was  the  scene.     It  was  here, 

before  the  incense  altar,  that  the 
aged  Zacharias  had  the  vision  which  assured  him 
that  he  should  not  die  childless  (Lk  1  11  ff).  Here, 
in  the  women's  court,  or  treasury,  on  the  presenta- 
tion by  Marv,  the  infant  Jesus  was  greeted  by 
Simeon  and  Anna  (Lk  2  27  ff).  In  His  12th 
year  the  boy  Jesus  amazed  the  temple  rabbis  by 
His  understanding  and  answers  (Lk  2  40  ff). 

The  chronological  sequence  of  the  Fourth  Gospel 

depends  very  much  upon  the  visits  of  Jesus  to  the 

temple    at    the    great    festivals    (see 

2.  Jesus  in    JESUS  CHRIST).     At  the  first  of  these 
the  Temple    occurred  the  cleansing  of  the  temple- 
court  —the  court  of  the  (Jentiles  —from 

the  dealers  that  profaned  it  (Jn  2  13  ff),  an  inci- 
dent repeated  at  the  close  of  the  ministry  (Mt  21 
12  ff  and  |'s).  When  the  Jews,  on  the  first  occasion, 
demanded  a  sign,  Jesus  spoke  of  the  temple  of  His 
body  as  being  destroyed  and  raised  up  in  three 
days  (Jn  2  I'.)),  eliciting  their  retort,  "Forty  and 
six  years  was  this  temple  in  building,"  etc  (ver  20). 
This  may  date  the'  occurrence  about  27  AD.  At  the 
second  cleansing  lie  not  only  drove  out  the  buyers 
and  sellers,  but  would  not  allow  anyone  to  carry 
anything  through  this  part  of  the  temple  (Mk  11 
lf)~17).  In  Jn  His  zeal  flamed  out  because  it  was 
His  Father's  house;  in  Mk,  because  it  was  a  house 
of  prayer  for  all  nations  (cf  Isa  56  7).  With  this 
non-exclusiveness  agrees  the  word  of  Jesus  to  the 
woman  of  Samaria:  ''The  hour  comet  h,  when 
neither  in  this  mountain  [in  Samaria],  nor  in  Jerus, 
shall  ye  worship  the  Fat  her"  (Jn  4  21).  During  the 
two  years  following  His  first  visit,  Jesus  repeatedly, 
at  festival  times,  walked  in  the  temple-courts,  and 
taught  and  disputed  with  the  Jews.  We  find  Him 
in  Jn  5  at  "a  feast"  (Passover  or  Purim?);  in 
Jn  7,  8,  at,  "the  feast  of  tabernacles,"  where  the 
temple-police  were  sent  to  apprehend  Him  (7  .'52. 
4f>ff),  and  where  He  taught  "in  the  treasury" 
(8  20);  in  Jn  10  22  ff,  at  "the  feast  of  the  dedica- 
tion" in  winter,  walking  in  "Solomon's  Porch." 
His  teaching  on  these  occasions  often  started  from 
some  familiar  temple  scene — the  libations  of  water 
carried  by  the  priests  to  be  poured  upon  the  altar 
(Jn  7  37  ff),  the  proselytes  ((Ireeks  even)  in  the 
great  portico  (Jn  12  20  ff),  etc.  Of  course  Jesus, 


not  being  of  the  priestly  order,  never  entered  the 
s.-inct  uarv;  1 1  is  teaching  took  pl:ice  in  the  several 
courts  open  to  laymen,  generally  m  the  "treasury" 
(see  Jn  8  20). 

The  first,  days  of  the  closing  week  of  the  life  of 

Jesus — the  week  commencing  with  the  Triumphal 

Kntr;\ — were     .spent     largely'     in     the 

3.  The  temple.     Here  He  spoke  many  parables 
Passion-         (Mt  21,  22  and  ||'s);  here  He  delivered 
Week  His   tremendous    arraignment    of    the 

Pharisees  (Mt  23  and  ||'s);  here,  as  He 
"sat  down  over  against  the  treasury,"  He  beheld 
the  people  casting  in  their  gifts,  and  praised  the 
poor  widow  who  cast  in  her  two  mites  above  all 
who  cast  in  of  their  abundance  (Mk  12  41  ff  and 
,'s).  It  was  on  the  evening  of  His  last  day  in  the 
temple  that  His  disciples  drew  His  at  tent  ion  to  "the 
goodly  stones  and  offerings"  (gifts  for  adornment) 
of  the  building  (Lk  21  5  and  !  'sj  and  heard  from 
His  lips  the  astonishing  announcement  that  the  days 
wore  coming — even  in  that  generation — in  which 
there  should  not  be  left  one  stone  upon  another 
(ver  6  and  Vs).  The  prediction  was  fulfilled  to  the 
hitter  in  the,  destruction  of  the  temple  by  the 
Romans  in  70  AD. 

Seven  weeks  after  the  crucifixion  the  Pentecost 
of  Acts  2  was  observed.     The  only  place  that  fulfils 

the    topographical    conditions    of    the 

4.  Apostolic  great    gatherings   is  Solomon's   Porch. 
Church  The  healing  of  the  lame   man    (Acts 

3  1  ff)  took  place  at  the  "door  .... 
called  Beautiful"  of  the  temple,  and  the  multitude 
after  the  healing  ran  together  into  "Solomon's 
Porch"  or  portico  (ver  11).  Whore  also  were:  the 
words  of  Lk  24  53,  they  "were  continually  in  the 
temple,  blessing  God,"  and  after  Pentecost  (Acts 
2  46),  "day  by  day,  continuing  sledfastly  ....  in 
the  temple,"  etc,  so  likely  to  be  fulfilled?  For  long 
the  apostles  continued  the  methods  of  their  Master 
in  daily  teaching  in  the  temple  (Acts  4  Iff).  Many 
years  later,  when  Paul  visited  Jerus  for  the  last  1  imo, 
he  was  put  in  danger  of  his  life  from  the  myriads  of 
Jewish  converts  "all  zealous  for  the  law"  (Acts  21 
20),  who  accused  him  of  profaning  the  temple  by 
bringing  Greeks  into  its  precincts,  i.e.  within  the 
surct/h  (vs 28-30).  But  Christianity  had  now  begun 
to  look  farther  afield  than  the  temple.  Stephen, 
and  after  him  Saul,  who  became  Paul,  preached 
that  "the  Most  High  dwolleth  not  in  houses  made 
with  hands"  (Acts  7  4S;  17  21),  though  Paul 
himself  attended  the  temple  for  ceremonial  and 
other  purposes  (Acts  21  20). 

From  the  time  that  the  temple  ceased  to  exist, 

the  Talin  took  its  place  in  Jewish  estimation;    but 

it   is   in   Christianity   rather   than    in 

5.  The  Judaism  that  the  temple  has  a  per- 
Temple  in      petual    existence.     The     NT    writers 
Christian        make  no  distinct  ion  between  one  temple 
Thought         and  anot  her.     It  is  the  idea  rat  her  than 

the  building  which  is  perpetuated  in 
Christian  teaching.  The  interweaving  of  temple 
associations  with  Christian  thought  and  life  runs 
through  the  whole  NT.  Jesus  Himself  supplied 
the  germ  for  this  development  in  the  word  He  spoke 
concerning  the  temple  of  His  body  (Jn  2  19.21). 
Paul,  notwithstanding  all  he  had  suffered  from  Jews 
and  Jewish  Christians,  remained  saturated  with 
Jewish  ideas  and  modes  of  thought.  In  one  of  his 
earliest  Kpp.  he  recognizes  the  "Jerus  that  is  above" 
as  "the  mother  of  us  all"  (Gal  4  20  AY).  In  an- 
other, the  "man  of  sin"  is  sitting  "in  the  temple 
of  God"  (2  Thess  2  4).  The  collective  church 
(1  Cor  3  10.17),  but  also  the  individual  believer 
(1  Cor  6  19),  is  a  temple.  One  notable  passage 
shows  how  deep  was  the  impression  made  upon 
Paul's  mind  by  the  incident  connected  with  Troph- 
imus  the  Ephcsian  (Acts  21  29).  That  "middle 


Temple 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2940 


wall  of  partition"  which  so  nearly  proved  fatal  to 
him  then  was  no  longer  to  he  looked  for  in  the  Chris- 
t  ian  church  (Kph  2  14),  which  was  "a  holy  temple 
in  the  Lord  (ver  21).  It  is  naturally  in  the  Lp.  to 
the  lie  that  we  have  the  fullest  exposition  of  ideas 
connected  with  the  temple,  although  here  the  form 
of  allusion  is  to  the  tabernacle  rather  than  the  temple 
(see  TAHKHV.u'U':;  of  West  cot  t  on  Hebrews,  233  ff). 
The  sanctuary  and  all  it  included  were  but  represen- 
tations  of  heavenly  things.  Finally,  in  Hoy, the 
vision  is  that  of  the  heavenly  temple  itsel  (11  19). 
But  the  church— professing  Christendom?— is  a 
temple  measured  by  God's  command  (11  l.Jtt). 
The  climax  is  reached  in  21  22-  23:  "I  saw  no  temple 
therein  [i.e.  in  the  holy  city]:  for  the  Lord  God  the 
Almi-'htv,  and  the  Lamb,  are  the  temple  thereof 
....  and  the  lamp  thereof  is  the  Lamb."  Special 
ordinances  are  altogether  superseded. 

LITERATURE — In  general  on  thn  temples  see  Keil, 
Jiih  \reh,ieiil:<ni  \,  in  which  the  older  lit.  is  mentioned; 
Frr-usson,  Temples  of^theJews;  Oomins.  on  K,  Oil  Ezr, 
Xch,  and  E/,k;  arts,  in  the  diets,  and  encs  (DB,  IIDB, 
Eli)-  ('•  V  Smith,  JVrus  and  similar  works.  '  soio- 
mon's  Temple,  cf  Ben/intier,  If,/,  Archaologie.  On  E,ze- 
kiel's  temple,  see  Skinner's  "  Book  of  Kzk  in  Expositors 
]iit,l,'  On  Zerubbabel's  temple,  cf  A)  .  Shaw  Calflecott, 
The  Second  Temple  in.  Jerus.  The  original  authorities  on 
Herod's  temple  arc  chiefly  Jos  Ant,  XV,  xi  and  BJ,V,v; 
and  the  Mish,  Mid, loth,  ii  (tins  section  of  \toe>  Middoth, 
from  Barclay's  Tnlm.  may  l)e  seen  in  App.  1  of  Fergus- 
son™  work  above  named).  The  (lor.  lit.  is  very  fully 
given  in  SchUror,  HJP,  \  \,  ns  n  (<;.f  \  '.  I--^f)- 
See  also  the  arts,  of  A.  K.  S.  Kennedy  in  Expos  T,  XX, 
referred  to  above,  and  T.  Water-house,  in  Sandav.  .Sacred 
SV/rs'  of  the  (!<>*  i><-lx,  IOC)  If.  <  )n  symbolism .  cf  \\estcott, 
Hebrews  >v«  If  See  also  arts,  in  this  Encyclopaedia  on 
parts,  furniture,  and  utensils  of  the  temple,  under  their 
several  headings. 

YV.  SHAW  CALDECOTT 
JAMES  OHH 

B.     IN  CRITICISM 

I       \I,I.EC,ED   WANT    OF   HARMONY   BETWEEN   EAHLIEU 
(K)  \NI>  L\TEK  (Tit)  VKHSIONS  OP  TEMPLE  BTTILDINQ 
1     Second  Version  Not  a  Facsimile  of  First 
•>     The  Two  Versions   Differ  as  to  the  Builder 
:T   The    Karlier    Version    Silent   about    Things    Re- 
corded in  Later  Version 
II.      DETAILED      OBJECTIONS      AGAINST       CHKONICU3B  B 

1.  Reason    for    Interdicting    David's    Purpose    to 

o  Impossibility^  David  in  His  Old  A«e  Collecting 
Materials  Enumerated  by  the  Chronicler 

3  Supernat urally  Received  Pattern  of  the  lemple 
Said  to  Have  Been  (liven  by  David  to  Solomon 

4.  Alleged  Organization  of  the  Temple-Service  by 

5  Assertion  by  Solomon  That  the  Temple  Would 
15e  L'sed  as  a  Central  Sanctuary 

LITERATURE 

B.     IN  CRITICISM 

Modern  criticism  does  not  challenge  the  existence 
of  a  Solomonic  Temple  on  Mt.  Moriah,  as  it  does 
that  of  a  Mosaic  tabernacle  in  the  wilderness. 
Only  it  maintains  that  historic  value  belongs  exclu- 
sively to  the  narrative  in  K,  while  the  statements  in 
Ch  are  pure  ornamentation  or  ecclesiastical^ trim- 
ming dating  from  post-exilic  times.  All  that  is  true 
about  the  Temple,  Bays  criticism,  is  (1)  that  David 
originally,  i.e.  on  coming  to  the  throne  of  all  Israel, 
contemplated  erecting  such  a  structure  upon  Arau- 
nah's  threshing-floor,  but  was  prohibited  from  doing 
so  by  Nathan,  who  at  first  approved  of  his  design 
but  was  afterward  directed  by  Jeh  to  stay  the  king's 
hand,  and  to  inform  the  king  that  the  work  of  build- 
ing a  house  for  Jeh  to  dwell  in  was  not  to 
be  his  (the  king's)  task  and  privilege  but  his 
son's,  and  that  as  a  solatium  for  his  disappoint- 
ment Jeh  would  build  him  a  house,  by  establishing 
the  throne  of  his  kingdom  forever  .(2  S  7  4-17); 
(2)  that  after  David's  deatli  Solomon  called  to  mind 
the  pious  purpose  of  his  father  of  which  he  had 
been  informed  and  the  express  promise  of  Jeh  that 
David's  successor  on  the  throne  should  execute 
that  purpose,  and  accordingly  resolved  to  "build  a 
house  for  the  name  of  Jeh  his  God"  (1  K  5  3-5) ;  and 


(3)  that  7\  years  were  employed  in  the  work  of  con- 
struct ion,  after  which  the  finished  Temple  was  dedi- 
cated in  the  presence  of  the  congregation  of  Israel, 
with  their  princes,  priests  and  Levites,  in  a  speech 
which  rehearsed  the  fact  that  David  had  intended 
to  build  the  house  but,  was  prevented,  and  with  a 
prayer  which  once  more  connected  the  Temple 
with  the  pious  intention  of  David  (1  K  8  1S-20). 

All  the  rest  is  simply  embellishment  (Wellhausen, 
(77,  IS  1-92;  art,  "Temple"  inEB):  (I)  that  David's 
purpose  to  build  the  Temple  was  interdict  ed  because 
he  had  been  a  man  of  war  and  had  shed  blood  (1  Ch 
28  3),  which  in  Wellhausen's  judgment  should  rather 
have  been  a  qualification  for  the  business;   (2)  that 
David  in  his  old  and  feeble  age  made  elaborate  prep- 
arations for  the  construction  of  the  house  he  was 
not  to  see — which,  again  writes   Wellhausen,   was 
like  "making  the  bread  so  far  ready  that  his  son 
only  required  to  shove  it  into  the  oven";   (3)  that 
David  gave  to  his  son  Solomon  the  pattern  of  the 
house  in  all  its  details  as  the  Lord  had  caused ^him 
to  understand  in  writing  ("black  upon  white,"  as 
Wellhausen  expresses  it)  by  His  (the  Lord's)  hand 
upon  him — which  was  different  from  the  way  in 
which  Moses  received  instruction  about  the  taber- 
nacle, vi/.  by  a  pattern  shown  to  him  in  the  Mount, 
and  carried  in  his  recollect  ion;  (4)  that  David  before 
his  death  arranged  all  the  musical  service  for  the 
Temple,  invented  musical  instruments,  appointed 
all  the  officers  to  be  associated,  with  the  Temple 
priests,   Levites,   porters  and  singers,   distributing 
them  in  classes  and  assigning  them  their  duties  by 
lot  (1  Ch  23  2-2(1;  2  Ch  8  12-KV)—  exactly  as  these 
things  were  afterward  arranged  in  the  second  or 
post-exilic  temple  and  were  now  carried  back  to 
David  as  the  legislation  of  the  PC  was  assigned  to 
Moses;  and  (5)  that  David's  son  Solomon  assures 
Hiram  (UV  "Huram")  that  the  Temple  will  be  used 
as  a  central  sanctuary  "to  burn  before  him  [Jeh] 
incense  of  sweet  spices,  and  for  the  continual  show- 
bread,  and  for  the  burnt-offerings  morning  and  even- 
ing  on  the  sabbaths,  and  on  the  new  moons,  and 
on  the  set  feasts  of  Jeh  our  God"  (2  Ch  2  3*ff),  i.e. 
for  Divine  service,  which,  according  to  criticism, 
was  of  post -exilic  origin. 

The  questions  that  now  fall  to  be  considered  are: 
(1)  whether  the  statements  of  the  Chronicler  are 
inconsistent  with  those  in  the  Books  of  S  and  K; 
and  (2)  if  not,  whether  they  are  in  themselves  such 
as  to  be  incredible1. 

/.  As  to  the  Want  of  Harmony  between  the 
Earlier  and  Later  Versions  of  the  Temple  Build- 
ing.— It  does  not  seem  reasonable  to 
hold  that  this  hasbeen  established.  The 
circumstance  that  the  second  account 
is  not  a  facsimile  of  the  first  does  not 
warrant,  the  conclusion  that  the  first 
alone  is  fact  and  the;  second  fiction.  It 
is  quite  conceivable  that  both  might  be  true.  David 
might  have  had  it  in  his  mind,  as  the  first  account 
states  and  the  second  acknowledges,  to  build  a  house 
for  Jeh,  and  yet  not  have  been  able  to  carry  his 
purpose  into  effect,  and  have  been  obliged  to  hand 
over  its  execution  to  his  son.  David,  moreover, 
might  have  been  hindered  by  Jeh  (through  1 1  is 
prophet  Nathan)  from  building  the  Temple  for 
more  reasons  than  one — because  the  proposal  was 
premature,  God  having  it  in  His  mind  to  build  a 
house  for  David,  i.e.  to  establish  his  dynasty,  before 
requiring  a  permanent  habitation  for  Himself; 
and  also  because  the  time  was  unpropit  ions,  David 
having  still  much  to  do  in  the  subjugation  of  his 
country's  enemies;  and  because  it  was  more  fitting 
that  a  temple  for  the  God  of  Peace  should  not  be 
erected  by  one  who  had  been  a  man  of  war  from 
his  youth.  The  first  of  these  reasons  is  stated  in 
S,  the  second  and  third  are  recorded  in  Ch. 


1.  The 

Versions 
Not  the 
Same 


2941 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Temple 


The    curlier    version    does    not    say    Iliat    David 

built,  the  house',  but  (hat  his  son  was  to  do  it,  and 

this  the  later  version  does  not  contra- 

2.  Supposed  diet ;    the  later  version  does  not,  claim 
Contra-  that  (he  idea  originated  with  Solomon, 
diction             but  ascribes  it  to  David,  precisely  as 

(he  earlier  version  does.  In  this  there 
is  no  disharmony,  but  rather  underlying  harmony. 
Both  versions  assert  (hat  David  purposed  and  that 
Solomon  performed,  in  which  surely  (here  is  perfect 
agreement . 

The  silence   of  the  earlier   version   about   the   things 

recorded  in  the  later  version,  such  as   I  he   preparation 

of  material  and   the   organization  of   the 

3.  Omis-         Temple-service,     does     not     prove     that 
Sions  in  these  tilings  were  not,  known  to  the  author 
T-,     ,  of  the  earlier   version,   or  had  not  taken 

place  when  he  wrote.  No  writer  is 
Versions  obliged  to  cram  into  his  pages  all  he  knows, 

but  only  to  insert  as  much  of  his  informa- 
tion as  will  subserve  his  aim  in  writing.  Nor  does  his 
omission  to  set  down  in  his  narrative  this  or  that  par- 
ticular fact  or  incident  amount  to  a  demonstration  that 
the  unrecorded  fact  or  incident  had  not  then  occurred 
or  was  not  within  his  cognizance.  Least  of  all  is  it 
expected  that  a  writer  of  civil  history  shall  fill  his  pages 
with  details  that,  are  purely  or  chiefly  ecclesiastical. 
In  short,  if  the  omission  from  K  of  David's  preparations 
and  arrangements  for  the  Temple,  testifies  that  no 
such  preparations  or  arrangements  were;  made,  the 
omission  from  Ch  of  David's  sin  with  Bath-shcba  and  of 
Nathan's  parable  of  the  Kwe  Lamb  should  certify  that 
either  these  things  never  happened  or  they  were  not 
known  after  the  exile.  It  is  usual  to  say  they  were 
purposely  left  out  because  it  was  the  Chronicler's  inten- 
tion to  encircle  David  with  a  nimbus  of  glory  (\Yell- 
hausen),  but  this  is  simply  critical  hypothesis,  the  truth 
of  which  is  disputed.  On  critical  principles  either  these 
incidents  in  David's  life  were  not  true  or  the  Chronicler 
was  not  aware  of  them.  But  the  Chronicler  had  as  pno 
main  source  for  his  composition  "the  earlier  historical 
hooks  from  Gen  to  K "  (Driver),  and  "the  tradition 
of  the  older  source  only  has  historical  value"  (\Vell- 
hausen). 

//.  Detailed  Objections  against  the  Chronicler's 
Account. — Examining  no\v  in  detail  the  above- 
stated  objections,  we  readily  sec  that  they  are 
by  no  means  so  formidable  as  at  first  sight  they 
look,  and  certainly  do  not  prove  the  Chronicler's 
account  to  be  incredible. 

That  David's  purpose  to  build  a  temple  should 
have  been  interdicted  because  he  had  been  a  man 
of  war  and  had  shed  blood  appears 
1.  Inter-  to  Wellhausen  to  be  a  watermark  of 
diction  of  non-historicity.  Benzingcr  in  EH  (art. 
David  "Temple")  goes  beyond  (his  and  says: 

"There  is  no  historical  probability  1  hat 
David  had  thoughts  of  building  a  temple."  But  if 
David  never  thought  of  building  a  temple,  then 
not  only  was  the  Chronicler  mistaken  in  making 
Solomon  say  (2  Ch  6  7)  that  it  was  in  the  heart  of 
his  father  so  to  do,  but  he  was  chargeable  with 
something  worse  in  making  the  Lord  say  to  David, 
"Whereas  it  was  in  thy  heart  to  build  a  house  for 
my  name,  thou  didst  well  in  that  it  was  in  thy 
heart"  (2  Ch  6  8),  unless  he  was  absolutely  certain 
that  (he  statement,  was  true — which  it  was  not  if 
Benzinger  may  be  relied  on. 

Nor  is  it  merely  the  Chronicler  whose  character  for 
intelligence;  and  piety  suffers,  if  David  never  thought 
of  building  a  temple;  the  reputation  of  the  author  or 
author's  of  S  and  Iv  must  also  go,  since  they  both  declare 
that  David  did  entertain  the  purpose  which  JJen/inger 
denies  (2  H  7  2;  1  Iv  5  X] [',  and  an  impartial  reasoncr 
will  hesitate  before  he  sacrifices  the  good  name  even  of 
two  unknown  ancient  writers  at  the  -ipse  dixit  of  any 
modern  scholar. 

We  may  therefore  limit  our  remarks  to  Well- 
hausen's  objection  and  reply  ( hat  (he  reason  assigned 
by  Ch  for  prohibiting  David  from  carrying  out  his 
purpose,  viz.  that  he  had  been  a  man  of  war,  might, 
have  been  an  argument  for  permitting  him  to  do  so, 
or  at  least  for  his  seeking  to  do  so,  had  his  object 
been  to  erect  a  monument  to  his  own  glory  or  a  thank 
offering  to  God  for  the  victories  he  had  won;  but 
not  if  the  Temple  was  designed  to  be  a  habitation 


wherein  flod  might  dwell  among  His  people  to  re- 
ceive their  worship  and  bless  (hem  with  His  grace. 
Strange  as  it  may  seem  (Winer)  that  David  should 
have  been  debarred  from  carrying  out  hi.s  purpose 
for  (he  reason  assigned,  yet  (here  was  reason  in 
the  interdict.,  for  not,  only  was  it  tilting  that  peace- 
ful works  should  be  carried  out  by  peaceful  hands 
(Mor/5  in  I' UK-),  but  David's  vocation  was  not 
temple-building  but  empire-building  (to  use  a 
modern  phrase);  and  many  campaigns  lay  before 
him  ere  the  leisure  could  be" found  or  (he  land  could 
be  ready  for  the  execut  ion  of  hi.s  sacred  design. 

That    David  in  his  old  and  feeble  age  could  not 

possibly  have  collected  all  the  materials  enumerated 

by  1  Ch  29  might  possibly  have  been 

2.  Quantity   (rue,  had  David  been  an  impecunious 
of  Materials  chieftain  and  had  he  only  in  the  last 

years  of  his  life  commenced  to  amass 
treasure.  But  David  was  a  powerful  and  wealthy 
eastern  potentate  and  a  valiant  warrior  besides,  who 
had  conquered  numerous  tribes,  1'hilis,  Moabites, 
Syrians,  Edom  it  es  and  Ammonites,  and  had  acquired 
from  his  victories  large  spoil,  which  from  an  early 
stage;  in  his  career  he  had  been  accustomed  to  dedi- 
cate (o  the  Lord  (2  S  8  11).  Hence  it  is  little  better 
than  trifling  to  put  forward  as  an  inherent  mark  of 
incredibility  the  statement,  that  David  in  his  old 
age  could  not  have  made  extensive  and  costly  prep- 
arations for  the  building  of  the;  Temple — all  the 
more  that  according  to  (he  narrative  he  was  assisted 
by  "the  princes  of  the  fat  hers'  houses,  and  the  princes 
of  the  tribes  of  Israel,  and  the  captains  of  thousands 
and  of  hundreds,  with  the  rulers  over  the  king's 
work,"  and  "the  people"  generally,  who  all  "offered 
willingly  for  the  service  of  the  house  of  God." 

No  doubt  the  value  in  sterling  money  of  these  prepara- 
tions is  enormous — the  gold  and  silver  alone  being  vari- 
ously reckoned  at  8  (Iveil),  1(1  (Bertheau),  si  (Michaelis) 
450  (Kautzsch),  1,400  (Kawlinson)  millions  of  pounds- 
arid  might  reasonably  suggest  either  that  the  text  has 
become  corrupt,  or  the  numbers  were  originally  used 
loosely  to  express  the  idea  of  an  extraordinary  amount  or 
were  of  set  purpose  exaggerated.  The  first  of  these 
explanations  is  adopted  by  Rawlinson;  the  second  by 
Bertheau;  the  third  by  Wellhausen,  who  sees  in  the 
whole  section  (1  (Mi  22-29)  "a  frightful  example  of 
the  statistical  phantasy  of  the  .lews,  which  delights 
itself  in  immense  sums  of  gold  upon  paper."  But  even 
conceding  that  in  each  of  these  explanations  a  measure 
of  truth  may  lie,  it  does  not  seem  justifiable  to  wipe 
out  as  unhistorical  and  imaginary  the  main  statement 
of  the  Chronicler,  that  David's  preparations  were 
both  extensive  and  costly,  all  the  less  that  1  K  10  14  15 
bears  witness  to  the  extraordinary  wealth  of  Solomon 
Whose  income  is  stated  to  have  been  (i(i(i  talents  of  gold' 
or  about  3  millions  sterling,  a  year,  besides  that  he  had 
of  the  merchantmen,  and  of  the  traffic  of  the  spice 
merchants,  and  of  all  the  kings  of  Arabia  and  of  the 
governors  of  the  country.  If  I )avid's  annual  income  was 
anything  like  this,  and  if  he  had  command  of  all  the  treas- 
ures accumulated  in  previous  years,  it  does  not  look  so 
impossible  as  criticism  would  make  out  that  David 
could  have  prepared  for  the  future  Temple  as  the 
Chronicler  reports. 

That  David  gave  to  Solomon  the  pattern  of  the 

Temple  in  a  \yriting  which  had  been  prepared  by 

him   under  direct   supernatural  guid- 

3.  Plan  of      ance  can  be  objected  to  only  by  those 
the  Temple   who  deny  the  possibility  of  such  Divine 

communications  being  made  by  God 
to  man.  _  If  criticism  admits,  as  it  sometimes  does, 
the  possibility  of  both  revelation  and  inspiration, 
the  objection  under  consideration  must  fall  to  the 
ground.  That  the  method  of  making  David 
acquainted  with  the  pattern  of  the  Temple  was  not 
in  all  respects  the  same  as  that  adopted  for  showing 
Moses  the  model  of  the  tabernacle,  only  proves  that 
the  resources  of  infinite  wisdom  are  not  usually 
exhausted  by  one  effort,  and  that  God  is  not  neces- 
sarily tied  down  to  one  particular  way  of  uttering 
His  thoughts. 

But  criticism  mostly  rejects  the  idea  of  the  super- 
natural and   accordingly  dismisses  this  statement 


Temple 
Temptation  of  C. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2942 


about  the  God-given  pat  fern  as  altogether  fanciful 
— pointing  (1)  to  flu;  fact,  that  similar  temples 
already  existed  among  the  Canaanites,  as  e.g.  at 
Shechem  (Jgs  9  40)  and  at  (iaza  (Jgs  16  29), 
which  showed  there  was  no  special  need  for  a 
Divinely  prepared  plan;  and  (2)  to  the  circumstance 
that  Solomon  fetched  Hiram,  a  Tynan  worker  in 
brass,  to  assist,  in  the  erection  of  the  Temple,  which 
again,  it  is  urged,  renders  probable  the  conclusion 
that  at  least  Phoen  ideas  entered  into  its  structure 
(Duncker,  Ben/dnger).  Suppose,  however,  it,  wen- 
true  that  the  Temple  was  fashioned  on  a  I'lioen, 
Can.  or  Egyp  mode!,  that  would  not  disprove  the 
statement,  that  1  >avid  was  guided  by  Divine  inspira- 
tion in  drawing  up  the  outline  of  the  building. 

That  David's  organization  of  the  Temple-service, 
both  as  to  oflicers  and  instruments,  as  to  ritual  and 

music,  corresponded  exactly  (or  nearly  so) 
4  The  -\\M\  what  afterward  existed  in  the  second 

™  ,  temple  can  hardly  be  adduced  as  a  proof 

of  non-historicity,  except  on  the  supposi- 
Service  tion  that  oh  deliberately  "transformed  the 

old  history  into  church  history"  by  ascrib- 
ing to  David  "the  holy  music  and  the  arrangement  of  the 
Temple  personals"  which  belonged  to  the  post-exilic  age, 
precisely  as  the  author  or  authors  of  the  PC,  which  dated 
from  the  same  age  (according  to  criticism),  attributed 
this  to  Moses  (Wellhausen,  <H,  is?)  -in  other  words,  by 
stating  what  was  not  true  in  either  case,  by  representing 
that,  as  liaslng  happened  which  had  not  happened. 
'\Ylicther  this  was  originally  intended  to  deceive  and  -\yas 
a  wilful  fraud,  as  some  hold,  and  whether  it  was  legiti- 
mate then  "to  do  evil  that  good  might  come,"  to  per- 
suade men  ihat  David  organized  the  musical  service 
which  was  performed  in  the  second  temple  in  order  to 
secure  for  it,  popular  acceptance,  it  may  be  left  to  each 
reader  to  determine;  it  must  always  be  wrong  to  ascribe 
doubtful  practices  to  good  men  like  the  authors  of  the 
IV.  and  of  Ch  unless  one  is  absolutely  sure  that  they 
were-  guilty  of  such  practices.  Undoubtedly  the  fair  and 
reasonable!  thing  is  to  hold  that  the  Ohroniclcr  wrote  the 
truth  until  it  is  proved  that  he  did  not:  and  for  his 
statement  it  may  be  claimed  that  at  least  it  has  this 
in  its  favor,  that  in  the  earlier  sources  David  is  distinctly 
slated  to  have  been  a  musician  (1  S  16  -'•!).  to  have 
composed  a  song,  Ps  18  (->  S  22  D,  and  to  have  been 
designated  "  the  sweet  psalmist  of  Israel."  No  doubt  on 
the  critical  hypothesis  this  might  explain  why  the  thought 
occurred  to  the  Chronicler  to  credit  David  with  the 
organization  of  the  Temple-service;  but  without  the 
critical  hypothesis  it  equally  accounts  for  the  interest 
David  took  in  preparing  "the  music  and  the  personals" 
for  the  Temple  which  his  son  was  to  build.  "The 
tradition  that  David  intended  to  build  a  temple  and  that 
he  tvorgani/ed  public  worship,  not  forgetting  the  musical 
side-  thereof  (cf  2  S  6  5  with  Am  6  .r»,"  says  Kittel 
(Tin-  Scientific  Xtuil.t/  <>f  th<>  OT,  1:56,  ET),  "is  not  al- 
together without  foundation." 

That    the    Temple-service    was    carried    out    in 
accordance  with  the  regulations  of  the  PC  does  not 
prove   that    the   Ch   account   is   unre- 
5.  The  liable,  unless  it  is  certain  that  the  post- 

Temple  a  exilic  PC  was  an  entirely  new  ritual 
Central  which  had  never  existed  before,  which 

Sanctuary  some  modern  critics  do  not  admit. 
But,  if  it  was  merely,  as  some  main- 
tain, a  codification  of  a  ctiltus  that  existed  before, 
then  no  sufficient  reason  exists  for  holding  that  Solo- 
mon's Temple  was  designed  to  be  a  private  chapel 
for  the  king  (Benzinger),  erected  partly  out  of 
piety  but  partly  also  out  of  love  of  splendor  and 
statecraft  (Heuss),  rather  than  a  central  sanctuary 
for  the  people.  A  study  of  Solomon's  letter  to 
Hiram  (2  Ch  2  4)  shows  that  the  Temple  was 
intended  for  the  concentration  of  the  nation's  sacri- 
ficial worship  which  had  up  till  then  been  fre- 
quently offered  at  local  shrines,  though  originally 
meant  for  celebration  at  the  Mosaic  tabernacle — 
for  the  burning  of  sweet  incense  (Ex  30  1),  the 
offering  day  by  day  continually  of  the  burnt 
offering  (Ex  29  39).  And  though,  it  is  admitted, 
the  letter  to  Hiram  as  reported  in  1  K  makes  no 
mention  of  this  intention,  yet  it  is  clear  from  1  K 
8  62-65,  that  Solomon,  after  dedicating  the  Temple 
by  prayer,  used  it  for  this  purpose.  Wherefore, 
if  Ch  simply  transferred  to  the  consecration  of  the 
Temple  a  ritual  that  had  no  existence  till  after  the 


exile,  the  author  of  K  did  the  same,  which  again 
would  destroy  Wellhausen's  admission  that  his- 
torical validity  attaches  to  the  earlier  source.  A 
much  more  likely  supposition  is  that  the  ritual 
reported  by  both  historians  was  not  that  of  a  PC 
manufactured  for  the  second  temple,  but  that  which 
had  been  published  by  Moses  for  the  tabernacle,  in 
place  of  which  it  had  come.  That  local  shrines  for 
many  years  existed  alongside  of  the  Temple  only 
proves  that  Solomon's  original  idea  wan  not  per- 
fectly carried  out  either  by  himself  or  his  people. 

LITERATI-RE. — The  Oomms.  of  Bertheau  and  Keil  on 
Oh;  Heuss,  (iexchirhtf  tier  hrUitjfn  Pichrift<-n  drx  Allen  Testa- 
mi-titx;  arts,  on  "Temple"  in  Sch-IIerz  ;  Kiehm,  Ilnnd- 
irorterhurh;  lIDB;  EH;  VVellhauseil,  J'rolegumcna  zur  Ge- 
xchichte  Israels. 

T.    WlIITKLAW 

TEMPLE  KEEPERS  (SERVANTS):  After  the 
conquest  of  Midian,  "Moses  took  one  drawn  out  of 
every  fifty,  both  of  man  and  of  beast,  and  gave  them 
unto  the  Levites,  that  kept  the  charge  of  the  taber- 
nacle of  Jeh"  (Nu  31  47;  cf  ver  30).  Similarly, 
after  the  deception  of  Joshua  by  the  Gibeonites, 
''Joshua  made  them  that  day  hewers  of  wood  and 
drawers  of  water  for  the  congregation,  and  for  the 
altar  of  Jeh,  unto  this  day"  (Josh  9  27).  The 
object  of  these  notices,  evidently,  is  to  explain  how 
a  non-Israelitish  class  of  sanctuary  servants  had 
taken  their  origin.  Their  existence  at  the  time  of 
E/ekiel,  however,  is  the  object  of  one  of  the  latter's 
severest  denunciations:  "Ye  have  brought  in  for- 
eigners, uncircnmcisod  in  heart  and  uncircumcised 

in  flesh,  to  be  in  my  sanctuary,  to  profane  it 

And  ye  have  not  kept  the  charge  of  my  holy  things; 
but  ye  have  set  keepers  of  my  charge  in  my  sanctu- 
ary for  yourselves"  (E/k  44  7f).  In  place  of  these 
servants  or  "keepers"  E/ekiel  directs  that  such 
Levites  are  to  be  employed  as  have  been  degraded 
from  priestly  privileges  for  participating  in  idola- 
trous worship.  On  them  shall  devolve  all  the  various 
duties  of  the  temple  except  the  actual  offering  of 
sacrifices,  which  is  reserved  for  "the  priests  the 
Levites,  the  sons  of  Zadok"  (44  10-1  ">).  For  the  use 
of  this  deposed  class,  "the  priests,  the  keepers  of 
the  charge  of  the  house,"  is  reserved  a  special  room 
in  the  inner  court,  of  the  temple  (40  441').  See, 
further,  NETHINI.M.  BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

TEMPLES,  tem'p'lz  (HjjH ,  rakkclh,  "thinness," 
"upper  cheeks"):  The  original  signifies  the  thinnest 
part  of  the  skull  (Jgs  4  21.22;  5  2ti).  In  Cant  4 
3;  67,  the  bride's  cheeks  are  likened  to  pome- 
granates because  of  the  rich  coloring  of  a  slice  of 
this  fruit. 

TEMPLES,  ROBBERS  OF  (UpoervXoi,  hierd- 
snloi;  AV  "robhcrs  of  churches,"  Acts  19  37): 
To  explain  this  as  "sacrilegious  persons"  is  irrecon- 
cilable with  the  contrast  in  Rom  2  22.  In  Dt  7 
2f>,  the  Jews  were  commanded  entirely  to  destroy  the 
gold  and  silver  idols,  ornaments  of  the  heathen 
temples.  The  sin  reproved  is  that  of  making  that  a 
matter  of  gain  which,  without  regard  to  its  value, 
they  should  have  destroyed.  "Dost  thou,  who 
regardest  the  mere  touch  of  an  idol  as  a  horrible 
defilement,  presume  to  rob  their  temples?"  There 
is  abundant  evidence  to  show  that  this  crime  was 
not  unusual.  When  the  town-clerk  of  Ephesus 
declares  the  companions  of  Paul  innocent  of  such 
charge,  his  words  imply  that  the  fact  that  they  were 
Jews  rendered  them  liable  to  such  suspicion.  So 
Jos  goes  out  of  his  way  (Ant,  IV,  viii,  10)  to  deny 
that  Jews  ever  committed  the  crime. 

II.  E.  JACOBS 

TEMPT,    temt,    TEMPTATION,    tem-ta'shun 
(HC;  ,   nusah,    "to  prove,"  "try,"  "tempt,"  HD^ , 
,  "a  trial,"  "temptation";  ircipd^w,  pcirdzo, 


2943 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Temple 
Temptation  of  C. 


"to  try,"  "prove."  impao-(i6s,  peirasmds,  "a  trial," 
"proof"):  Tho  words  have  a  sinister  connotation  in 
present-day  usage  which  has  not  always  attached 
to  1  lieni.  Originally  the  words  were  of  neutral 
content,  with  the  sense  of  "putting  to  the  proof," 
the  testing  of  character  or  quality.  Thus  God  is 
"tempted"  by  Israel's  distrust  of  Him,  as  if  the 
people  were  actually  challenging  Him  to  show  His 
perfections  (Ex  17  2;  Ps  78  IS;  Acts  15  10;  He 
3  9,  and  often);  Abraham  is  "tempted,"  being 
called  upon  to  offer  up  Isaac  ((Jen  22  1);  and 
Jesus  is  "tempted"  to  a  spectacular  Messiahship 
(Mt  4  and  ||  passages  [see  TEMPTATION  OF  CHRIST])  . 
No  evil  is  implied  in  the  subject  of  these  tempta- 
tions. Temptation  therefore  in  the  Scripture  sense 
has  possibilities  of  holiness  as  well  as  of  sin.  For 
as  all  experience  witnesses,  it  is  one  thing  to  be 
tempted,  another  thing  to  fall.  To  be  tempted — 
one  may  rejoice  in  that  (.las  1  2),  since  in  tempta- 
tion, by  conquering  it,  one  may  achieve  a  higher 
and  nobler  manhood. 

"Why  comos  temptation  but  for  man  to  meet 
And  masti-r  and  make  crouch  beneath  his  foot. 
And  KO  be  pedestalled  in  triumph?" 

Holiness  in  its  best  estate  is  possible  only  under 
conditions  which  make  it  necessary  to  meet,  resist 
and  triumph  over  temptation.  Thus  Jesus  Him- 
self became  our  Great  High  Priest  in  that,  being 
tempted  in  all  points  like  as  we  are,  He  never  once 
yielded,  but  fought  and  triumphed  (He  4  15). 

One  must  not  deceive  one's  self,  however,  in 
thinking  that,  because  by  the  grace  of  God  one  may 
have  profit  of  virtue  through  temptation  as  an  in- 
strument, all  temptation  is  equally  innocent  and 
virt  nous.  It  is  noticeable  in  the  case  of  Jesus  that 
His  temptation  was  under  the  direction  of  the  Spirit 
(Mk  1  12) ;  He  Himself  did  not  seek  it,  nor  did  He 
fear  it.  Temptations  encountered  in  this  way,  the 
way  of  duty,  the  way  of  the  Spirit,  alone  constitute 
the  true  challenge  of  sairitship  (Jas  1  12) ;  but  it  is 
the  mark  of  an  ignoble  nature  to  be  perpetually  the 
(tenter  of  vicious  fancies  and  tempers  which  are  not 
of  God  but  of  the  devil  (Jas  1  13-15).  One  may 
not  escape  entirely  such  bufferings  of  faith,  but  by 
any  sound  nature  they  are  easily  disposed  of.  Not 
so  easily  disposed  of  are  the  trials  (temptations)  to 
faith  through  adversity,  affliction,  trouble  (Lk  22 
2S;  Acts  20  19;  Jas  1  2;  1  Pet  1  6);  and  yet 
there  is  no  lack  of  evidence  to  the  consoling  fact 
that  God  does  not  suffer  His  own  to  be  tempted 
above  what  they  are  able  to  bear  (I  Cor  10  13) 
and  that  for  every  crisis  His  grace  will  be  sufficient 
(2  Cor  12  8.9).  CHARLES  M.  STUART 

TEMPTATION  OF  CHRIST:    The  sources  for 

this  event  are  Mk  1  12.13;    Mt  4  1-11;    Lk  4  1- 

13;     cf    He  2  IS;     4  15.10,    and    see 

1.  The  GETHSEMAXE.     Mk  is  probably  a  con- 
Sources         dcnsation;    Mt  and  Lk  have  the  same 

source,  probably  the  discourses  of 
Jesus.  Mt  is  usually  regarded  as  nearest  the 
original,  and  its  order  is  here  followed. 

The   Temptation   is   put   immediately  after  the 
Baptism  by  all  the  synoptists,  and  this  is  psycho- 
logically  necessary,    as   we   shall   see. 

2.  Time         The  place  was  the  wilderness;    it  was 
and  Place      "up"    from   the   Jordan   valley    (Mt), 

and  was  on  the  way  back  to  Galilee 
(Lk).  The  traditional  site,  Mt.  Quarantana,  is 
probably  a  good  guess. 

At  His  baptism,  Jesus  received  from  heaven  the 
final  confirmation  of  His  thought  that  He  was  the 

Messiah.     It    was    the    greatest    con- 

3.  Signifi-       ception  which  ever  entered  a  human 
cance  mind    and    left    it    sane.     Under    the 

irresistible  influence  of  the  Spirit, 
He  turned  aside  to  seek  out  in  silence  and  alone  the 


principles  which  should  govern  Him  in  His  Messianic 
work.  This  was  absolutely  necessary  to  any  wise 
prosecution  of  it.  Without,  the  slightest  precedent 
Jesus  must  determine  what  a  Messiah  would  do, 
how  He  would  net.  Radical  critics  agree  that,  if 
such  a  period  of  meditation  and  conflict  were  not 
recorded,  it  would  have  to  be  assumed.  By  this 
conflict,  Jesus  came  to  that  clearness  and  decision 
which  characterized  His  ministry  throughout.  It  is 
easy  _ to  see  how  this  determination  of  guiding 
principles  involved  the  severest  temptation,  and  it 
is  noteworthy  that  all  the  temptation  is  repre- 
sented as  coming  from  without,  and  none  from 
within.  Here  too  He  must  take  His  stand  with 
reference  to  all  the  current  ideas  about  the  Messiah 
and  His  work. 

Jesus  alone  can  be  the  original  reporter.     To  this 

Holtzmann  and  J.    Weiss  agree.     The  report  was 

given  for  the  sake  of  the  disciples,  for 

4.  The  the    principles    wrought    out    in    this 
Reporter        conflict  are  the  guiding  principles  in 

the  whole  work  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  on  earth. 

(1)  Fasting. — Jesus   was    so    intensely   absorbed 
that  He  forgot  to  cat.     There  was  nothing  ascetic 

or  ritualistic  about  it,  and  so  this  is 

5.  Expo-        no  example  for  ascetic  fasting  for  us. 
sition  It  is  doubtful  whether  the  text  demands 

absolute  abstinence  from  food;  rather, 
long  periods  of  fasting,  and  insufficient  food  when  He 
had  it.  At  the  end  of  the  forty  days,  He  woke  to 
the  realization  that  He  was  a  starving  man. 

(2)  The  first  temptation  is  not  a  temptation  to 
doubt  His  Messiahship,  nor  is  the  second  either. 
"If  thou  art  the  Son  of  God,"  i.e.  "the  Messiah," 
means,  simply,   "since    thou  art  the  Son  of  God" 
(see  Burton,    Moods  and    Tenses,   sees.   244,   245; 
Robertson,  Short  Grammar,  1(51).     There  was  not 
the  slightest  doubt  on    this  point  in  Jesus'  mind 
after  the  baptism,  and  Satan  knew  it.     There  is 
no    temptation    to    prove    Himself    the    Messiah, 
nor  any  hint  of  such  a  thing  in  Jesus'  replies.     The 
very  point  of  it  all  is,  How  are  you  going  to  act, 
since  you  are  Messiah?  (Mt  4  3  I   Lk  4  3). 

The  temptation  has  these  elements:  (a)  The  per- 
fectly innocent  craving  for  food  is  imperious  in  the 
starving  man.  (b)  Why  should  He  not  satisfy 
His  hunger,  since  He  is  the  Son  of  God  and  has  the 
power?  Jesus  replies  from  Dt  8  3,  that  God  can 
and  will  provide  Him  bread  in  His  own  way  and 
in  His  own  time.  He  is  not  referring  to  spiritual 
food,  which  is  not  in  question  either  here  or  in  Dt 
(see  Broadus'  just  and  severe  remark  here).  He 
does  not  understand  how  God  will  provide,  but  He 
will  wait  and  trust.  Divinely  assured  of  Messiah- 
ship,  He  knows  that  God  will  not  let  Him  perish. 
Here  emerges  the  principle  of  His  ministry;  He 
will  never  use  His  supernatural  power  to  help 
Himself.  Objections  based  on  Lk  4  30  and  Jn  10 
39  are  worthless,  as  nothing  miraculous  is  there 
implied.  The  walking  on  the  water  was  to  help 
the  apostles'  faith.  But  why  would  it  have  been 
wrong  to  have  used  His  supernatural  power  for 
Himself?  Because  by  so  doing  He  would  have 
refused  to  share  the  human  lot,  and  virtually  have 
denied  His  incarnation.  If  He  is  to  save  others, 
Himself  He  cannot  save  (Mt  27  42).  In  passing, 
it  is  well  to  notice  that  "the  temptations  all  turn 
on  the  conflict  which  arises,  when  one,  who  is  con- 
scious of  supernatural  power,  feels  that  there  are 
occasions,  when  it  would  not  be  right  to  exercise 
it."  So  the  miraculous  is  here  most  deeply  im- 
bedded in  the  first  principles  of  Messianic  action. 

(3)  The  second  temptation. — The  pinnacle  of  the 
temple  was  probably  the  southeast  corner  of  the 
roof  of  the  Royal  Cloister,  32(5  ft.  above  the  bottom 
of  the  Kidron  valley.  The  proposition  was  not  to 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


and  heavenly 


Temptation  of  C. 
Ten  Com'andm'ts 

leap  from  this  height  into  the  crowd  below  in  the 
temple  courts,  as  is  usually  said,  for  (a)  there  is 
no  hint  of  the  people  in  the  narrative;  (b)  Jesus 
reply  does  not  fit  such  an  idea;  it  meets  another 
temptation  entirely;  (c)  this  explanation  confuses 
the  narrative,  making  the  second  temptation  a 
short  road  to  glory  like  the  third;  (d)  it  seems  a 
fantastic  temptation,  when  it  is  seriously  visualized. 
Rather  Satan  bids  Jesus  leap  into  the  abyss  outside 
the  temple.  Why  then  the  temple  at  all,  and  not 
some  mountain  precipice?  asks  Meyer.  Because 
it  was  the  sheerest,  depth  well  known  to  the  Jews, 
who  had  all  shuddered  as  they  had  looked  down 
into  it  (Mt  4  5-7  ,|  Lk  4  5-8). 

The  first  temptation  proved  Jesus  a  man  of  faith 
andtho  second  is  address,,!  to  Him  as  such,  askiiiK  Him 
to  prove  His  faith  by  putting  God's  P™^*?  the  test. 
It  Is  the  temptation  to  fanaticism,  which  has  been  t 
destruction  of  many  a  useful  servant  of  God.  Jesus 
refuses  to  yield,  for  yielding  would  have  been  sin.  It 
would  have  been  (a)  wicked  P™»Pt|»«.  as  th  OUK  h 
Cod  must  vield  to  every  unreasonable  whim  or  the  111.111 
of  fai  and  so  would  have  been  a  real  "tempting  .of 
God  W  it  would  have  denied  His  incarnation  in  prm- 
<•  ,  le  like  the  tirst  temptation;  (c)  such  fanaticism  would 

^KffSSw&!a.1s.Isss: 
EH1  «  £Si« 

will  be  led  by  Him  in  paths  of  holy 
wisdom.     Jesus  waited  on  God. 

(4)  The  third  temptation.—  The  former  tests 
have  proved  Jesus  a  man  of  faith  and  of  common 
sense.  Surely  such  a  man  will  take  the  short  and 
easy  road  to  that  universal  dominion  which  right- 
fully belongs  to  the  Messiah.  Satan  offers  it,  as 
the  prince  of  this  world.  The  lure  here  is  the  desire 
for  power,  in  itself  a  right  instinct,  and  the  natural 
and  proper  wish  to  avoid  difficulty  and  pain.  1  hat 
the  final  object  is  to  set  up  a  universal  kingdom  ol 
God  in  righteousness  adds  to  the  subtlety  ot  the 
temptation.  But  as  a  condition  Satan  demands 
that  Jesus  shall  worship  him.  This  must  be  sym- 
bolically interpreted.  Such  worship  as  is  offered 
God  cannot  be  meant,  for  every  pious  soul  would 
shrink  from  that  in  horror,  and  for  Jesus  it  could 
constitute  no  temptation  at  all.  Rather  a  com- 
promise with  Satan  must  be  meant—  such  a  com- 
promise as  would  essentially  be  a  submission  to 
him  Recalling  the  views  of  the  tunes  and  the 
course  of  Jesus'  ministry,  we  can  think  this  com- 
promise nothing  else  than  the  adoption  by  Jesus 
of  the  program  of  political  Messiahship,  with  its 
worldly  means  of  war,  intrigue,  etc.  Jesus  repudiates 
the  offer  He  sees  in  it  only  evil,  for  (a)  war,  esp. 
aggressive  war,  is  to  His  mind  a  vast  crime  against 
love  (fo)  it  changes  the  basis  of  His  kingdom  from 
the  spiritual  to  the  external,  (c)  the  means  would 
defeat  the  end,  and  involve  Him  in  disaster.  He 
will  serve  God  only,  and  God  is  served  in  righteous- 
ness Only  means  which  God  approves  can  be  used 
(Mt'4  8-11  II  Lk  4  9-13).  Here  then  is  the  third 
great  principle  of  the  kingdom:  Only  moral  and 
spiritual  means  to  moral  and  spiritual  ends,  lie 
turns  away  from  worldly  methods  to  the  slow 
and  difficult  way  of  truth-preaching,  which  can 
end  only  with  the  cross.  Jesus  must  have  come 
from  His  temptation  with  the  conviction  that  His 
ministry  meant  a  life-and-death  struggle  with  all 
the  forces  of  darkness. 

As  we  should  expect  of  Jesus,  He  throws  the  story 
of  the  inner  conflict  of  His  soul  into  story  form. 

So  only  could  it  be  understood  by  all 
6  The  classes"  of  men  in  all  ages.  It  was  a 

Character      real    struggle,    but    pictorially,    sym- 
of  the  bolically  described.     This  seems  to  be 

Narrative      proved    by    various   elements   in   the 

story,  viz.  the  devil  can  hardly  be 
conceived  as  literally  taking  Jesus  from  place  to 
place.  There  is  no  mountain  from  which  all  the 


2944 


kingdoms  of  the  world  can  be  seen.     This  view  of 
the  matter  relieves  all  the  difficult  ies. 

The  difficulty  is  that  there  can  be  no  drawing 
toward  an  object  unless  the  object  seems  desirable. 

But  the  very  fact  that  a  sinful  object 
7.  How  seems  desirable  is  itself  sin.  How  then 
Could  a  can  a  sinless  person  really  be  tempted 
Sinless  at  all?  Possibly  an  analysis  of  each 

Christ  be       temptation   will   furnish    the   answer. 
Tempted?      In  each   case  the  appeal  was  a  real 

appeal  to  a  perfectly  innocent  natural 
instinct  or  appetite.  In  the  first  temptation,  it 
was  to  hunger;  in  the  second,  to  faith;  in  the  third, 
to  power  as  a  means  of  establishing  righteousness. 
In  each  case,  Jesus  felt  the  tug  and  pull  of  the 
natural  instinct;  how  insistent  is  the  demand  of 
hunger,  for  instance!  Yet,  when  He  perceived 
that  the  satisfaction  of  these  desires  was  sinful 
under  the  conditions,  He  immediately  refused  their 
clamorous  appeal.  It  was  a  glorious  moral  victory. 
It  was  not  that  He  was  metaphysically  not  able  to 
sin,  but  that  He  was  so  pure  that  He  was  able  not 
to  sin.  He  did  not  prove  in  the  wilderness  that,  I  le 
could  not  be  tempted,  but  that  He  could  overcome 
the  tempter.  If  it  is  then  said  that  Jesus,  never 
having  sinned,  can  have  no  real  sympathy  with 
sinners,  the  answer  is  twofold:  (1  )  Not  he  who  falls 
at  the  first  assault  feels  the  full  force  of  temptation, 
but  he  who,  like  Jesus,  resists  it  through  long  years 
to  the  end.  (2)  Only  the  victor  can  help  the  van- 
quished; only  he,  who  has  felt  the  most  dreadful 
assaults  and  yet  has  stood  firm,  can  give  the 
help  needed  by  the  fallen. 

LITERATURE.  —  Broadus  on  Mt,  in  loc.  ;  Rhees,  Life  of 
Jesus  of  Xn:nri'tli,  sees.  91-9(1;  Sanday,  Outlines  of  the 
Life  of  Christ,  sec.  i:i;  Holtzmann,  Hand-Commentar,  I, 
07  f-  J  Weiss,  Die  Schrifti-n.  des  .\  T  ,  I,  227  f;  Weiss,  I.ije 
of  Christ  1  :W7-f>4;  Dods,  art.  "Temptation,"  in  DCC,; 
Garvie,  Expos  T,  X  (1898-99). 

F.  L.  ANDERSON 
TEN  niEy  ,  Vser;  S^KO.,  deka).     See  NI'MBKH. 


TEN  COMMANDMENTS,  THE: 


I. 

H. 

III. 


IV. 


THE  TEN   COMMANDMENTS   AN  ISKAEMTISH  CODE 
THE  PROMULGATION  OF  THE   DECALOGUE 
ANALYSIS   OF  THE   DECAI.OOUE   WITH   BHIEF  KXE- 
GETICAL  NOTES 

1.  Flow  Numbered 

2.  How  Grouped 

3.  Original  Form 

4.  Brief  Exegetical  Notes 

JE8D8   AND   THE   TEN    COMMANDMENTS 


LITERATURE 

In  the  OT  the  Decalogue  is  uniformly  referred  to 
as  "the  ten  words"  (Ex  34  28  m;  Dt  4  13m;  10 
4m),  or  simply  as  "the  words"  spoken  by  Jeh 
(Kx  20  1;  34  27;  Dt  5  22;  10  2),  or  as  "the 
words  of  the  covenant"  (Ex  34  28).  In  the  N  I 
they  are  called  "commandments"  (Mt  19  17;  Eph 
6  2),  as  with  us  in  most  Christian  lands. 

/.  The  Ten  Commandments  an  Israelitish  Code. — 
The  "ten  words"  were  spoken  by  Jeh  to  the  people 
whom  He  had  but  recently  delivered  from  Egyp 
bondage,  and  then  led  out  into  the  wilderness,  that 
He  might  teach  them  His  laws.  It  was  to  Israel 
that  the  Decalogue  was  primarily  addressed,  and 
not  to  all  mankind.  Thus  the  reason  assigned  for 
keeping  the  5th  commandment  applies  to  the  people 
who  were  on  their  way  to  the  land  which  had  been 
given  to  Abraham  and  his  descendants  (Ex  20  12); 
and  the  4th  commandment  is  enforced  by  reference 
to  the  servitude  in  Egypt,  (Dt  5  15).  It  is  possible, 
then,  that  even  in  the  Ten  Commandments  there 
are  elements  peculiar  to  the  Mosaic  system  and 
which  Our  Lord  and  His  apostles  may  not  make 
a  part  of  faith  and  duty  for  Christians.  See  SAB- 
BATH. 

Of  the  "ten  words,"  seven  were  perhaps  binding 
on  the  consciences  of  enlightened  men  prior  to  the 
days  of  Moses:  murder,  adultery,  theft  and  false 


294.5 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCmi>.\Kl)I 


witness  wore  already  treated  as  crimes  among  flic 
Babylonians  and  the  Egyptians;  and  intelligent 
men  knew  that  it  was  wrong  to  dishonor  ( iod  by 
improper  use  of  His  name,  or  to  sho\v  lack  of  respect 
to  parents,  or  to  covet  the  property  of  another. 
No  doubt  the  sharp,  ringing  words  in  which  these 
evils  are  forbidden  in  t  ho  Ten  Commandments  gave 
to  Israel  a  clearer  apprehension  of  the  sins  referred 
to  than  they  had  ever  had  before;  ami  flu;  manner 
in  which  they  were  grouped  by  the  Divine  speaker 
brought  into  bold  relief  the  chief  elements  of  the 
moral  law.  But  the  first  two  prohibitions  were 
novelties  in  the  religious  life  of  the  world;  for  men 
worshipped  many  gods,  and  bowed  down  to  images 
of  every  conceivable  kind.  The  2d  commandment 
was  too  high  even  for  Israel  to  grasp  at  that  early 
day;  a  few  weeks  later  the  people  were  dancing 
about  the  golden  calf  at  the  foot  of  Sinai.  The 
observance  of  the  Sabbath  was  probably  unknown 
to  other  nations,  though  it  may  have  been  already 
known  in  the  family  of  Abraham. 

II.  The  Promulgation  of  the  Decalogue. — The 
"ten  words"  were  spoken  by  Jeh  Himself  from  the 
top  of  the  mount  under  circumstances  the  most 
awe-inspiring.  In  the  early  morning  there  were 
thunders  and  lightnings  and  a  thick  cloud  upon  the 
mount,  and  the  voice  of  a  trumpet  exceeding  loud. 
It  is  no  wonder  that  the  people  trembled  as  they 
faced  the  smoking  and  quaking  mount,  and  listened 
to  the  high  demands  of  a  holy  God.  Their  request 
that  all  future  revelations  should  be  made  through 
Moses  as  the  prophet  mediator  was  quite  natural. 
The  promulgation  of  the  Ten  Commandments 
stands  out  as  the  most  notable  event  in  all  the 
wilderness  sojourn  of  Israel.  There  was  no  greater 
day  in  history  before  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  God 
into  the  world. 

After  a  sojourn  of  40  days  in  the  mount,  Moses 
came  down  with  "the  two  tables  of  the  testimony, 
tables  of  stone,  written  with  the  finger  of  God'." 
At  the  foot  of  the  mount,  when  Moses  saw  the  golden 
calf  and  the  dancing  throng  about  it,  he  cast  the 
tables  out  of  his  hands  and  broke  them  in  pieces 
(Ex  31  IS;  32  15-20).  Through  the  intercession 
of  Moses,  the  wrath  of  Jeh  was  averted  from  Israel; 
and  Jeh  invited  Moses  to  ascend  the  mount  with 
two  new  tablets,  on  which  He  would  write  the  words 
that  were  on  the  first  tables,  which  were  broken. 
Moses  was  commanded  to  write  the  special  precepts 
given  by  God  during  this  interview;  but  the  Ten 
Commandments  were  written  on  the  stone  tablets 
by  .Jeh  Himself  (Ex  34  1-4.27-29;  Dt  10  1-5). 
These  precious  tablets  were  later  deposited  in  the 
ark  of  the  covenant  (Ex  40  20).  Thus  in  every 
way  possible  the  Ten  Commandments  are  exalted 
as  the  most  precious  and  directly  Divine  of  all  the 
precepts  of  the  Mosaic  revelation. 

///.   Analysis  of  the  Decalogue  with  Brief  Exegetical 
Notes. —  1  nat  there  were  "ten  words  "  is  expressly  stated 
(Kx  34  as;     Dt  4   13;     10  4);     but    just 
1.  How  how  to  delimit  them  one  from  another  is 

NnmhpfPrl      ^  task   whk;h   has   not   been   found   easy. 
For  a  full  discussion  of  the  various  theories 
see    Dillmann,    Exodus,   201-5,    to   whom 
we  are  indebted  for  much  that  is  hero  set  forth. 

( 1 )  Jos  is  the  first  witness  for  the  division  now  common 
among  Protestants  (except  Lutherans),  viz.  (a)  foreign 
gods,  (b)  images,  (<?)  name  of  God,  (d)  Sabbath  (e.) 
parents,  (/)  murder,  (a)  adultery,  (h)  theft,  (i)  false' wit- 
ness, 0)  coveting.  Before  him,  Philo  made  the  same 
arrangement,  except  that  he  followed  the  LXX  in  putting 
adultery  before  murder.  This  mode  of  counting  was 
current  with  many  of  the  church  Fathers,  and  is  now  in 
use  in  the  Greek  Catholic  church  and  with  most  Prot- 
estants. 

(-J  Augustino  combined  foreign  gods  and  images 
(Kx  20  2-6)  into  one  commandment,  and  followin" 
the  order  of  Dt  5  21  (Heb  IS)  made  the  9th  command- 
ment a  prohibition  of  the  coveting  of  a  neighbor's  wife 
while  the  lOtn  prohibits  the  coveting  of  his  house  and 
other  property.  Roman  Catholics  and  Lutherans 
accept  Augustine's  mode  of  reckoning,  except  that  they 
follow  the  order  iu  Ex  20  17,  so  that  the  9th  command- 


Temptation  of  C. 
Ten  Com'andm'ts 


t'Th'nfo1!(rhid|i   ','"'  r"V''(m"  "f  a   'K'^l'l'or's   house,   while 
tnc  10th  includes  his  wife  and  all  oilier  property. 

(3)  A  third  mode  of  counting  is  that  adopted  by  the 
Jews  in  the  early  Christian  centuries,  which  became  uni- 
versal among  them  in  the  Middle  Ages  and  so  down  to  the 
present  time.  According  to  this  scheme,  the  openin" 
statement  in  Ex  20  2  is  the  "first,  word,"  Kx  20  3  ti 

ie  second  (combining  foreign  gods  with  images),  while, 
tno  following  eight  commandments  are  as  in  the  com- 
mon Protestant  arrangement. 

The  division  of  the  prohibition  of  coveting  into  two 
commandments  is  fatal  to  the  Augustinian  scheme;  and 
the  reckoning  of  the  initial  statement-  in  Kx  20  2  as  one 
or  the  ten  words"  seems  equally  fatal  to  the  modern 
Jewish  method  of  counting.  The  prohibition  of  images 
which  is  introduced  by  tin;  solemn  formula,  "Thou  shalt 
not,  is  surely  a  different  "word"  from  the  command  to 
worship  no  god  other  than  Jeh.  Moreover,  if  nine  of 
the  ten  words"  are  commandments,  it  would  seem 
reasonable  to  make  the  remaining  "word"  a  command- 
ment, if  this  can  be;  done  without  violence  to  the  subject- 
mat  ter.  Seo  Eerdmans,  AV/w.s-,  July,  1909,  21  If. 

(1)   The  Jews,  from   Philo  to  the"  present,  divide  the 

:n  words     into  two  groups  of  five  each.      As  there  were 

two  tables,  it,  would  be  natural  to  suppose 

2.  How  tnat    nve    commandments    were   recorded 


than  four  times  as  long  as  the  second. 

(2)  Augustine  supposed   that   there  were  three  com- 
mandments on  the  first    table  and   seven  on  the  second 
According  to   his   method   of   numbering   the  command- 
ments,  this  would  put  the  command  to  honor  parents 
at  the  head  of  the  second  table,  as  in  the  third  method 
of  grouping  the  ten  words. 

(3)  Calvin  and  many  moderns  assign  four  command- 
ments to  the  first  table  and  six  to  the  second.      This  has 
the  advantage  of  assigning  all  duties  to  God  to  the  first 
table  and  all  duties  to  men  to  t  he  second.     It  also  accords 
)\i     ««ir  Ij°rd's  reduction  of  the  commandments  to  two 
CMt  22  34-40). 

_  A  comparison  of  the  text  of  the  Decalogue  in  Dt 
5  with  that  in  Ex  20  reveals  a  goodly  number  of 
differences,  esp.  in  the  reasons  assigned 
3.  Original    for  the  observance  of  the  4th  and  5th 
Form  commandments,  and  in  the  text  of  the 

10th  commandment.  A  natural  ex- 
planation of  these  differences  is  the  fact  that  Dt 
employs  the  free-and-easy  style  of  public  discourse. 
The  Ten  Commandments  are  substantially  the  same 
in  the  two  passages. 

From  the  days  of  Ewald  to  the  present,  some  of 
the  leading  OT  scholars  have  held  that  originally 
all  the  commandments  were  brief  and  without  the 
addition  of  any  special  reasons  for  their  observance 
According  to  this  hypothesis,  the  2d,  3d,  4th,  5th, 
and    the   10th    commandments   were   probably   as 
follows:     "Thou   shalt   not   make   unto    thee   any 
graven  image";    "Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of 
Jeh  thy  God  in  vain";    "Remember  the  Sabbath 
day  to  keep  it  holy";    "Honor  thy  father  and  thy 
mother";     "Thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neighbor's 
house."     This  early  critical  theory  would  account 
for  the  differences  in  the  two  recensions  by  sup- 
posing that  the  motives  for  keeping  the  2d,  3d,  4th, 
and  5th  commandments,  as  well  as  the  expansion 
of  the  10th,  were  additions  made  through  the  in- 
fluence of  the  prophetic  teaching.     If  accompanied 
by  a  full  recognition  of  the  Divine  origin  of  the  ten 
words  in  the  Mosaic  era,  this  hypothesis  might  be 
acceptable   to   a   thorough   believer   in   revelation. 
Before  acquiescing  in  the  more  radical  theories  of 
some  recent  scholars,  such  a  believer  will  demand 
more  cogent  arguments  than  the  critics  have  been 
able  to  bring  forward.     Thus  when  we  are  told  that 
the  Decalogue  contains  prohibitions  that  could  not 
have  been  incorporated  into  a  code  before  the  days 
of  Manasseh,   we  demand  better  proofs  than  the 
failure  of  Israel  to  live  up  to  the  high  demands  of 
the  2d  and  the  10th  commandments,  or  a  certain 
theory  of  the  evolution  of  the  history  that  may 
commend  itself  to  the  mind  of  naturalistic  critics. 
Jeh  was  at  work  in  the  early  history  of  Israel;   and 
the  great  prophets  of  the  8th  cent.,  far  from  creating 


Ten  Com'andm'ts 
Tent 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2946 


ethical  monotheism,  were  reformers. sent  to  demand 
that  Israel  should  embody  in  daily  life  the  teachmi 
of  the  Torah.  in  9Q 

Goethe    advanced   the   view    that    Ex  34  U 
originally  contained  a  second  decalogue. 

Wellhausen    (CH,    331  f)    reconstructs    this    so-called 
Hccnlo"ue  as  follows: 

m   Thou  shalt  worship  no  other  god  (ver  1      . 
2     Thou  shalt  make  thee  no  molten  gods  (ver  17). 

(3)   The  feast  of  unleavened    bread  shalt  thou   ki  i , 
(ver  ISa).  „   N 

( t)    Everv  firstling  is  mine  (ver  19a). 
5     Thou  slnilt  observe  the  feast  of  ^eeks  (ver  22a) 

(6)   And   the  feast  of  ingathering   at  the   years 

(V((7)2  Thou  shalt  not  offer  the  blood  of  my  sacrifice  with 
lca(8^nT^io  fat  of Imy  feast  shall  not  remain  all  night  until 
thV<nn(Th1('lb('sJt3()1fSt'h('  first -fru'its  of  thy  ground  shalt 


^Vddis'aRrees  with  Wcllhausen  that  even  this  simpler 
decalogue  mu^t  be  put  long  after  the  time  of  Moses 
(KH,  1051). 

Now  it  is  evident  that  the  narrative  in  Ex  34 
27  f  in'its  present  form,  means  to  affirm  that  Moses 
was'  commanded  to  write  the  precepts  contained 
in  the  section  immediately  preceding  1  he  1  on 
Commandments,  MS  the  foundation  of  the  covenant 
were  written  hv  Jeh  Himself  on  the  .two  tablets  of 
.tone  (31  18;  32  15  f;  34  28).  It  is  only  by  free 
or  it  ical  handling  of  the  narrat  ive  that  it  can  be  made 
to  appear  that  Moses  wrote  on  the  two  tables  the 
supposed  decalogue  of  34  14-26  .  Moreover,  the 
law  of  the  Sabbath  (3421),  winch  is  certainly 
appropriate  amid  the  ritual  ordinances  ot  Ex  34, 
must  be  omit t CM!  altogether,  in  order  to  reduce  the 
precepts  to  ton;  also  the  command  m  ver  23  has 
to  be  deleted.  It  is  interesting  to  observe  that  the 
prohibition  of  molten  gods  (34  17),  even  according 
to  radical  critics,  is  found  in  the  earliest  body  ot 
[sraelitish  laws.  Then;  is  no  sufficient  reason  for 
denying  that  the  2d  commandment  was  promul- 
gated in  the  days  of  Moses.  Jeh's  requirements 
have  always  been  in  advance  of  the  practice  ot  His 

Pe?l)  The  1st  commandment  prohibits  the  worship 
of  any  god  other  than  .Teh.  If  it  be  said  that  this 

precept  inculcates  monolatry  and  not 
4  Brief  monotheism,  the  reply  is  ready  to 
Exeeetical  hand  that  a  consistent  worship  of  only 
Notes  one  God  is,  for  a  people  surrounded 

by  idolaters,  the  best  possible  approach 
to  the  conclusion  that  there  is  only  one  true  Cod. 
The  organs  of  revelation,  whatever  may  have  been 
the  notions  and  practices  of  the  mass  of  the  Israel- 
itish  people,  always  speak  in  words  that  harmonize 
with  a  strict  monotheism. 

(2)  The   2d    commandment   forbids   the   use   ot 
images  in  worship;   even  an  image  of  Jeh  is  not  to 
be  tolerated  (ef  Ex  32  5).     Jeh's  mercy  is  greater 
than  His  wrath;   while  the  iniquity  of  the  fathers 
descends  to  the  third  and  the  fourth  generation  for 
those  who  hate  Jch,  His  mercy  overflows  to  thou- 
sands who  love  Him.     It  is  doubtful  whether  the 
rendering  'showing  mercy  to  the  thousandth  gen- 
eration' (Ex  20  0)  can  be  successfully  defended. 

(3)  Jeh's  name  is  sacred,  as  standing  for  His  per- 
son;  therefore  it  must  be  employed  in  no  vain  or 
false  way      The  commandment,  no  doubt,  includes 
more  than  false  swearing.     Cursing,  blasphemy  and 
every  profane  use  of  Jeh's  name  are  forbidden. 

(4)  As  the  1st  commandment  inculcates  the  unity 
of  God  and  the  2d  His  spirituality,  so  also  the  3d 
commandment  guards  His  name  against  irreverent 
use  and  the  4th  sets  apart  the  seventh  day  as  pecul- 
iarly His  day,  reserved  for  a  Sabbath      &*W  11 
emphasizes  the  religious  aspect  of  the  babbatb, 
while  Dt  5  14  lays  stress  on  its  humane  aspect,  an< 


Dt  6  IT)  links  it  with  the  deliverance  from  bondage 

(5)  The  transition  from  duties  to  God  to  duties 
to  men  is  made  naturally  in  the  5th  commandment, 
which   inculcates  reverence  for  parents,   to   whom 
their  children  should  look  up  with  gratitude,  as  all 
men  should  toward  the  Divine  Father. 

(6)  Human  life  is  so  precious  and  sacred  that  no 
man  should  dare  to  take  it  away  by  violence 

(7)  The  family  life  is  safeguarded  by   the    <tn 
commandment.  .        ,. 

(8)  The  8th  commandment  forbids  tnett 

its  forms.     It  recognizes  the  right  of  personal  owner- 
ship of  property. 

(9)  The  9th  commandment  safeguards  honor  and 
good  name  among  men.     Slander,  defamation,  false 
testimony  in  court  and  kindred  sins  are  included. 

(10)  The  10th  commandment  is  the  most  search- 
ing of  them  all,  for  it  forbids  the  inward  longing, 
the  covetous  desire  for  what  belongs  to  another 
The  presence  of  such  a  deeply  spiritual  command 
among  the  "ten  words"  shows  that  we  have  before 
us   no   mere  code   of   laws   denning   crimes,   but    a 
body  of  ethical  and  spiritual  precepts  for  the  moral 
education  of  the  people  of  Jeh. 

IV.  Jesus  and  the  Ten  Commandments.— 
Lord'  in  the  interview  with  the  rich  young  ruler,  gave 
a  recapitulation  of  the  commandments  treating  ( 
duties  to  men  (Mk  10  19;  Mt  19  ISf;  Lk  18  20) 
He  (motes  the  5th,  6th,  7th,  8th  and  9th  command- 
ments The  minor  variations  in  the  reports  in  the 
three  Synoptic  Gospels  remind  the  student  of  the 
similar  variations  in  Ex  20  and  Dt  5.  Already  m 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount  Jesus  had  quoted  the  bt  ti 
and  7th  commandments,  and  then  had  gone  on  to 
show  that  anger  is  incipient  murder,  and  that  lust 
is  adultery  in  the  heart  (Mt  5  27-32)  He  takes 
the  words  of  the  Decalogue  and  extends  them  into 
the  realm  of  thought  and  feeling.  He  may  have 
had  in  mind  the  3d  commandment  in  His  sharp 
prohibition  of  the  Jewish  habit  of  swearing  by  va- 
rious things  (Mt  6  33-37).  As  to  the  Sabbath,  His 
teaching  and  example  tended  to  lighten  the  onerous 
restrictions  of  the  rabbis  (Mk  2  23-28)  Duty  to 
parents  He  elevated  above  all  supposed  claims  of 
vows  and  offerings  (Mt  15  4-(i).  In  further  ex- 
tension of  the  8th  commandment,  Jesus  said,  iJo 
not  defraud"  (Mk  10  19);  and  in  treating  of  the 
ethics  of  speech,  Jesus  not  only  condemns  false 
witness,  but  also  includes  railing,  blasphemy,  and 
even  an  idle  word  (Mt  15  19;  12  31.36  f).  In  His 
affirmation  that  God  is  spirit  (.In  4  24),  Jesus  made 
the  manufacture  of  images  nothing  but  folly.  All 
his  ethical  teaching  might  bo  said  to  be  founded 
on  the  10th  commandment,  which  tracks  sin  to  its 
lair  in  the  mind  and  soul  of  man.  . 

Our  Lord  embraced  the  whole  range  of  human 
obligation  in  two,  or  at  most  three,  commands: 

(1)  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind    ; 

(2)  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself 
2237-40;     cf    Dt,  6  5;     Lev  19  18).     \\ith    love 
such  as  is  here  described  in  the  heart,  man  cannot 
trespass  against  God  or  his  fellow-men.     At  the 
close  of  His  ministry,  on  the  night  of  the  betrayal, 
Jesus  gave  to  His  followers  a  third  commandment, 
not  different  from   the  two  on  which  the  whole 
Law  hangs,  but  an  extension  of  the  second  great 
commandment  upward  into  a  higher  realm  ot  self- 
sacrifice  (Jn  13  34  f;   15  12U7;  cf  Eph  52;  Gal 
6  10;    1  Jn  3  14-18).     "Thou  shalt  love"  is  the 
first  word  and  the  last  in  the  teaching  of  Our  Lord 
His  teaching  is  positive  rather  than  negative,  and 
so  simple  that  a  child  can  understand  it.     For  the 
Christian,  the  Decalogue  is  no  longer  the  highest 
summary  of  human  duty.     He  must  ever  read  it 
with  sincere  respect  as  one  of  the  great  monuments 


2947 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Ten  Com'andm'ts 
Tent 


of  the  love  of  God  in  the  moral  and  religious  educa- 
tion of  mankind  ;  but  it  has  given  place  to  the  higher 
teaching  of  the  Son  of  God,  all  that  was  permanently 
valuable  in  the  Ten  Commandments  having  been 
taken  up  into  the  teaching  of  Our  Lord  and  His 
apostles. 

LITERATURE.  —  Oehler,  OT  Theology,  I,  267  fT;  Dili- 
maim,  Ex-Lev,  200-219;  Kuenen,  Origin  and  Compoxi- 
tion  of  the  llexateuch,  244;  Wellhausen,  (,'//,  33  1  f; 
Rothstein,  Das  Bundrxbuch;  Baenstch,  Das  Bundesbuch; 
Meissner,  Di'r  Di'kuloi/;  Driver,  "  Dt,"  ICC;  Addis, 
Documents  of  the  Hcxatcuch,  I,  13611;  K.  \V.  Dak:,  The 
Ten  Commandments;  (Jr.  D.  Boardman,  University  Lec- 
tures on  the  Ten  Commandments  (Philadelphia,  1889). 

JOHN  RICHARD  SAMPEY 
TEN   STRINGS    ("iVttjy  ,    <asor).     See  Music,  I, 


TENDER,  ten'der:  The  usual  (11  out  of  16  t).tr 
of  !JH  ;  rakh,  "soft,"  "delicate,"  with  the  noun  ff'"l  , 
rdkh,  in  Dt  28  56  and  the  vb.  tfD"}  ,  rdkhakh,  in 
2  K  22  19  ||  2  Ch  34  27.  Attention  need  be 
called  only  to  the  following  cases:  In  Gen  29  17, 
"Leah's  eyes  were  tender,"  a  physical  defect  is 
described  ("weak-eyed";  see  BLINDNESS).  "Tender- 
hearted" in  2  Ch  13  7  means  "faint-hearted," 
while  in  2  K  22  19  j|  2  Ch  34  27  ("because  thy 
heart  was  tender"),  it  means  "penitent."  Contrast 
the  modern  use  in  Eph  4  32. 

Throughout  Pss  (10  t)  and  Prov  (12  10),  but  not 
elsewhere  (AV  has  "tender  love"  in  Dnl  1  9, 
RV  "compassion"),  EV  translates  D^'Dn'l,  rahd- 
mlm,  "bowels,"  by  "tender  mercies,"  and  this  tr  has 
been  carried  into  the  NT  as  "tender  mercy"  (RVm 
"heart  of  mercy")  for  the  corresponding  Gr  phrase 
spldgchna  eleous  ("bowels  of  mercy")  in  Lk  1 
78;  cf  "tenderhearted"  for  eusplagchnos  ("right 
boweled")  in  Eph  4  32,  based  upon  the  idea  of 
psychology  widely  spread  among  Sem  people,  which 
considers  the  "bowels"  (kerebh)  as  the  seat  of  all 
tender  emotions  of  kindness  and  mercy.  See 
BOWELS.  AV  also  has  "of  tender  mercy"  in  Jas 
511  without  justification  in  the  Gr  (oiktirmon,  RV 
"merciful"). 

Other  special  phrases:  "tender  grape"  in  AV,  Cant  2 
13.15;  7  12,  for  "\~T2D.  fmadhar.  The  meaning  of  the 
word  is  not  quite  certain,  but  RV's  "blossom"  (except 
7  12m)  is  probably  right.  "Tender  grass"  in  2  S 
23  4;  Prov  27  25;  RV  Dt  32  2  (AV  "tender  herb"); 
Job  38  27  (AV  "tender  herb");  Isa  15  6;  66  14  for 
XTin,  deshc',"  grass"  (Aram.  tffTl,  dethe'  ,  Dnl  £  15.23). 

The  context  in  these  passages  and  the  meaning  of  the 
cognates  of  tleshe'  in  other  Sem  languages  make  this  tr 
probable,  but  KV's  usage  is  not  consistent  (cf  (Jen  1 
11.12;  Job  6.5;  Ps  23  2,  etc).  Isa  53  2  has  "tender 
plant"  for  p;^"1,  ydnek,  "a  sapling,"  while  Job  14  7  has 
"tender  branch"  for  the  allied  word  Z"lT3j'V\  yoneketh, 

usually  rendered  "shoot"  (Job  8  16,  etc).  Finally 
"tender"  in  Mk  13  28  lj  Mt  24  32  is  for  oTraAo?, 
hapalox,  "soft.'!  The  running  sap  of  springtime  softens 
the  branches  that  were  stiff  during  the  winter. 

The  vb.  "tender"  occurs  in  2  Mace  4  2,  AV 
"[he  had]  tendered  his  own  nation,"  in  the  modern 
sense  of  "tend."  The  tr  is  a  paraphrase  of  the 
noun  Krjde/jiuv,  kedemon,  "a  protector,"  RV  "the 
guardian  of  his  fellow-countrymen." 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

TENON,  ten'un  (T1  ,  yadh):  This  word,  occurring 
in  Ex  26  and  36,  is  used  in  the  account  of  the 
tabernacle  to  describe  the  "hand"  or  yddh  by  \vhich 
its  48  boards  were  kept  in  place.  Each  board 
had  two  tenons  which  were  mortised  into  it  (Ex  36 
22m).  These  tenons  would  be  made  of  harder 
wood  than  the  acacia,  so  as  better  to  stand  the 
strain  of  wind  and  weather.  When  in  use  the 
tenons  were  sunk  into  the  "sockets"  (q.v.),  and 
allowed  of  a  speedy  reerection  of  the  tabernacle  at 
its  every  remove. 

Sockets  are  also  mentioned  as  in  use  for  the  stand- 


ards of  the  tabernacle  court  (Ex  27  10  ff),  but  there 
is  no  mention  of  tenons.  It  may  be  that  the  base 
of  each  standard  was  let  into  its  socket,  without 
the  use  of  any  tenon.  This  would  give  it  sufficient 
stability,  as  the  height  of  each  standard  was  but 
5  cubits  (7J-  ft.)  (Ex  27  18). 

For  Professor  A.  R.  S.  Kennedy's  different  the- 
ory of  "tenons,"  sec  TABERNACLE,  and  his  own 
art.  on  the  "Tabernacle"  in  HDB,  IV. 

W.  SHAW  CALDECOTT 

TENT,  tent  pHtf  ,  'ohd;  <rKT]Wj,  skcnc;  'ohd  is 
a  derivative  of  bntf  ,  'ahal,  "to  be  clear,"  "to  shine"; 
hence  'ohd,  "to  be  conspicuous  from  a  distance"): 
In  the  great  stretches  of  uncultivated  lands  in  the 
interior  of  Syria  or  Arabia,  which  probably  have 
much  the  same  aspect  today  as  in  Abraham's  time, 
it  is  an  easy  matter  to  espy  an  encampment  of 
roving  Bedouin,  "a  nation  ....  that  dwelleth 
without  care  ....  that  have  neither  gates  nor 
bars"  (Jer  49  31).  The  peaks  of  their  black  (cf 
Cant  1  5)  goats'  hair  tents  stand  out  in  contrast 
against  the  lighter  colors  of  the  soil. 

There  seems  to  be  lit  tie  doubt  about  the  antiq- 
uity of  the  Arab  tent,  and  one  can  rightly  believe 
that  the  dwelling-places  of  Abraham,  Sarah,  Jacob, 
and  their  descendants  were  made  on  the  same  pat- 
tern and  of  the  same  materials  (Gen  4  20;  9  27; 
12  8;  13  3;  18  6;  31  25.33;  Ps  78  55;  He  11  9, 
etc).  Long  after  the  children  of  Israel  had  given  up 
their  tents  for  houses  they  continued  to  worship  in 
tents  (2  S  7  1-6;  2  Ch  1  3.4)  (for  the  use  of 
tents  in  connection  with  religious  observances  see 
TABERNACLE). 

The  Arab  tents  (called  bail  sha*r,  "house  of  hair") 
are  made  of  strips  of  black  goats'  hair  cloth,  sewed 
together  into  one  large  piece  (see  GOATS'  HAIR; 
WEAVING).  Poles  are  placed  under  this  covering 
at  intervals  to  hold  it  from  the  ground,  and  it  is 
stretched  over  these  poles  by  ropes  of  goats'  hair 
or  hemp  (cf  Job  4  21;  Isa  54  2;  Jer  10  20),  fast- 
ened to  hard-wood  pins  driven  into  the  ground  (Isa 
64  2;  Jgs  4  21;  6  26).  A  large  wooden  mallet 
for  driving  the  pegs  is  part  of  the  regular  camp 
equipment  (Jgs  4  21;  526).  The  sides  (curtains)  of 
the  tent  (Isa  54  2)  are  made  of  strips  of  goats'  hair 
cloth,  or  from  mats  woven  from  split  cane  or  rushes 
(see_  illustration,  p.  2948).  Where  more  than  one 
family  occupies  the  same  tent  or  the  animals  are 
provided  with  shelter  under  the  same  roof  (cf  2  Ch 
14  15),  curtains  of  the  same  materials  mentioned 
above  form  the  dividing  walls.  A  corner  of  the  mat- 
ting where  two  ends  meet  is  turned  back  to  form  the 
door  of  the  tent  (Gen  18  1).  In  the  summer  time 
the  walls  are  mostly  removed.  New  tents  are  not 
water-proof,  and  the  condition  of  the  interior  after 
a  heavy  rain  is  not  far  from  squalid.  The  tent 
material  becomes  matted  by  use,  esp.  if  wool  has 
been  woven  into  the  fabric,  and  is  then  a  better 
protection  against  the  rain.  It  is  the  women's  duty 
to  pitch  the  tents. 

The  poorer  Arabs  have  no  mats  to  cover  the 
ground  under  their  tents.  Straw  mats,  goats'  hair 
or  woolen  rugs  (cf  Jgs  4  18),  more  or  less  elaborate 
as  the  taste  and  means  of  the  family  allow,  are  the 
usual  coverings  for  the  tent  floor.  The  food  sup- 
plies are  usually  kept  in  goats'  hair  bags,  the  liquids, 
as  oil  or  milk  products,  in  skins.  One  or  two  tinned 
copper  cooking-vessels,  a  shallow  tray  of  the  same 
material,  a  coffee  set  consisting  of  roasting  pan, 
mortar  and  pestle,  boiling-pot  and  cups,  make  up 
the  usual  (-amp  f  urnit  ure.  The  more  thrifty  include 
bedding  in  their  equipment,  but  this  increases  the 
difficulties  of  moving,  since  it  might  require  more 
than  the  one  animal,  sometimes  only  a  donkey,  which 
carries  all  the  earthly  belongings  of  the  family.  A 
sheikh  or  chief  has  several  tents,  one  for  himself  and 


Tenth 
Tertullus 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2048 


guests,  separate  ones  for  liis  wives  and  female  serv- 
ants, and  still  others  for  his  animals  (cf  (!en  31  3:5). 

Other  Heb  words  tr'1  "tent"  are  forms  of  H:n  ; 
hanah  (Xu  13  1!);  IS  17  r>3;  2  K  7  U>;  2  Cli 
31  2;  Zee  14  lf>);  HZC  ,  .s,,A'A-«/i  (2  S  11  11;  22 
12);  rfi:2T2T2,  miNhkfndth  (Cant  1  8). 

Figurative:  "Neither  shall  the  Arabian  pitch 
tent  there"  typified  utter  desolation  (Isa.  13  20). 
"Enlarge  the  place  of  thy  tent  ....  stretch  forth 
the  curtains  ....  lengthen  thy  cords  .  .  .  . 
strengthen  thy  stakes"  prophesied  an  increase  in 
numbers  and  prosperity  of  ( Jod's  people  (Isa  54 
2;  cf  33  20;  Lk  16  9;  2  Cor  5  4).  Tent  cords 
plucked  up  denoted  death  (Job  4  21).  Jer  10  20 


Paul  dwelt  with  Aquila  and  Priscilla,  and  worked 
with  them  at  tent-making  (cf  Acts  20  34).  See 
also  CRAFTS,  II,  18. 

TEPHON,  te'fon  (f|  Te<jx&.  he  Tcpho):  In 
1  Mace  9  50,  a  city  of  Judaea  fortified  by  Bacchidea, 

probably  the  "Beth-tappuah"  of  Josh  15  fv5,  near 
Hebron.  Jos  (Ant,  XII,  i,  3)  calls  it  "Tochoa." 

TERAH,  te'ra  (H"  iH  ,  lerah;  LXX  ©dppa,  Tfuirra, 
or  [with  XT]  0dpa,  Tltnrtr,  on  the  name  see  esp. 
IIDB,  s.v.):  The  son  of  Xahor  and  father  of  Abra- 
ham, Xahor  and  Ha,  ran  (On  11  2  If).  At  Abra- 
ham's birth  Terah  was  70  years  old  (11  20),^  and 
after  Abraham's  marriage,  Terah,  Abraham,  Sarah 


A  UAH  TKXT. 


is  a  picture  of  a  destroyed  household  as  applied 
to  Judah.  Ilex.ekiah  in  his  sickness  bewails  that 
his  dwelling  (life)  had  been  carried  away  as  easily 
as  u  shepherd's  tent  is  plucked  up  (Isa  38  12). 
Isaiah  compared  the  heavens  to  a  tent  spread  out, 
(Isa  40  22).  "They  shall  pitch  their  Lents  against, 
her"  i.e.  they  shall  make  war  (Jer  6  3). 

JAMES  A.  PATCH 
TENTH.     See  TITHE. 


TENTH  DEAL,  del  Cji"^?  ,  i?  ,  *issaron): 
The  tenth  part  of  an  ephah,  and  so  rendered  in  RV 
(Nu  28,  29).  It  was  used  in  connection  with  the 
sacrifices  for  measuring  flour. 

TENT-MAKER,  tent'mak-er  (O-KTIVOTTOIOS,  skc- 
nopoios):  Mentioned  only  once  (Acts  18  3). 
Paul's  native  province  of  Cilicia  was  noted  for  its 
goats'  hair  cloth  which  was  exported  under  the 
name  of  cilicium-  and  was  used  largely  for  tent- 
making.  We  are  told  in  the  passage  mentioned  that 


and  Lot  emigrated  from  l"r  of  the  Chaldees  on  the 
road  into  the  land  of  Canaan,  but  stopped  in  Haran 
(11  31).  When  Abraham  was  7o  years  old  he  and 
his  nephew  resumed  their  journey,  leaving  Terah  in 
Haran,  where  60  years  later  he  died  (11  32).  St. 
Stephen,  however,  states  (Acts  7  4)  that  Terah  was 
dead  when  Abraham  left  Haran,  an  impression  that 
is  easily  gained  from  On  11-12  if  the  dates  are  not 
computed.  As  there  is  no  reason  to  suppose  that 
St.  Stephen  was  granted  inspiration  that  would  pre- 
serve him  from  such  a  purely  formal  error,  the  con- 
tradiction is  of  no  significance  and  attempts  at 
"reconciliation"  are  needless.  In  particular,  the 
attempt  of  Blass  (Mud.  u.  Kril.,  189G,  460  ff)  to 
alter  the  text  of  Acts  is  quite  without  foundation. 
For  further  discussion  see  esp.  Knowiing,  Expos  Gr 
Test.,  ad  loc.  It  is  worth  noting  that  Philo  makes 
the  same  error  (Migr.  Ahr.  Ill  [§32]),  perhaps  indi- 
cating some  special  Jewish  tradition  of  NT  times. 
In  Josh  24  2  Terah  is  said  to  have  been  an  idolater. 
In  Jub  12  this  is  softened  into  explaining  that 


2049 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tenth 
Tertullus 


through  four  of  his  life  Torah  was  forced  to  yield 
outward  conformity  to  the  idolatrous  worship  of 
his  neighbors.  On  the  other  hand  certain  Jewish 
legends  (e.g.  B'r.  R<ib.  17)  represent  Tcrah  as 
actually  a  maker  of  idols.  Otherwise  in  the  Bible 
Tenth  is  mentioned  only  by  name  in  1  Ch  1  20; 
Lk  3  34.  BURTON  SCOTT  E  ASTON 

TERAH  (B,  TdpaO,  Tdrath,  A,  ©dpae,  Thdrath):  A 
wilderness  camp  of  the  Israelites  between  Tahath 
and  Mithkah  (Nu  33  27.28).  See  WANDERINGS  OF 
ISRAEL. 

TERAPHIM,  ter'a-fim.   See  ASTROLOGY;  DIVINA- 

TION;   LMA<;ES. 

TEREBINTH,  terebinth:  (1)  nbx  ,  'clah  (Isa 
6  13,  AV  "toil  tree";  Hos  4  13,  'AV  "elms"); 
in  Gen  35  4  (AV  "oak");  Jgs  6  11.19;  9  (j 
(AV  "plain");  2  S  18  9.10.14;  IK  13  14;  1  Ch 
10  12;  Isa  1  30;  Ezk  6  13,  trfi  "oak,"  and  in  m 
"terebinth";  "vale  of  Elah,"  m  "the  terebinth"  in 
1  S  17  2.19;  21  9.  (2)  CTbx,  'slim  (Isa  1  29, 
"oaks,"  m  "terebinths").  (3)  H5X  ,  'aHah  (Josh 
24  26,  EV  "oak,"  but  LXX  repc^floj,  tcrebinlhos)  . 
(4)  "pb$  ,  'elon,  "oak  [m  "terebinth"]  of  Zaanannim" 
(Josh  19  33;  Jgs  4  11);  "oak  [RVm  "terebinth," 
AV  "plain"]  of  Tabor"  (1  S  10  3);  also  Gen  12  6; 
13  IS;  14  13;  1  S  10  3;  Dt  11  30;  Jgs  6  19  all 
tr(i  "oak"  or  "oaks,"  with  m  "terebinth"  or  "tere- 
binths." (.5)  In  Gen  14  6  LXX  has  TeptfcvOos,  tere- 
binthns,  as  the  tr  of  the  el  of  El-paran.  (6)  In 
Eeclus  24  1(5  re/>4«(/3)iJ'0oy,  tercm(b~)inthos,  AV  "tur- 
pentine tree,"  RV  "terebinth." 

It  is  clear  that  the  translators  are  uncertain  which 
tr  is  correct,  and  it  would  seem  not  improbable  that 
then  there  was  no  clear  distinction  between  oak  and 
terebinth  in  the  minds  of  the  OT  writers;  yet  the 
l\vo  are  very  different  trees  to  any  but  the  most 
superficial  observation. 

The  terebinth  —  Pistacia  terebinthus  (N.O.  Ana- 
crinlinceae),  _Arab.  Butm  —  is  a  tree  allied  to  the 
P.  vcra,  which  produces  the  pistachio  nut,  and  to 
the  familiar  "pepper  tree"  (Schinus  mollc)  so  exten- 
sively cultivated  in  modern  Pal.  Like  the  latter  the 
terebinth  has  red  berries,  like  small  immature  grapes. 
The  leaves  are  pinnate,  four  to  six  pairs,  and  they 
change  color  and  fall  in  autumn,  leaving  the  trunk 
bare  (cf  Isa  1  30).  The  terebinth  is  liable  to  be  in- 
fected by  many  showy  galls,  some  varieties  looking 
like  pieces  of  red  coral.  In  Pal,  this  tree  assumes 
noble  proportions,  csp.  in  situations  when,  from  its 
association  with  some  sacred  tomb,  it  is  allowed 
to  flourish  undisturbed.  It  is  in  such  situations  not 
infrequently  as  much  as  40  ft.  high  and  spreads 
its  branches,  with  their  thick,  dark-green  foliage, 
over  a  wide  area  (cf  2  S  18  9  f.14;  Ecclus  24  16). 
Dwarfed  trees  occur  among  the  brushwood  all  over 
the  land. 

From  this  tree  a  kind  of  turpentine  is  obtained, 
hence  the  alternative  name  "turpentine  tree" 
(Ecclus  24  16  AV,  RV  "terebinth"). 

E.  W.  G.  MASTERMAN 

TERESH,  te'resh  (ttnn  ,  tc-rcsh  [Est  2  21;  6  2]; 
B  A  S  omit,  X  in,  ©dpas,  T/tdnis,  and  ©dippas,  Thdr- 
ra.s):  A  chamberlain  of  King  Ahasuerus.  Oppert 
compares  the  name  with  Tiri-dates,  the  name  of  the 
governor  of  Persepolia  in  the  time  of  Alexander. 
Another  explanation  identifies  it  with  the  Pers  word 
turn,  "firm";  Schcft  links  it  with  the  Pers  tarsha, 
"desire." 


TERRACE,  ter'as  (rDtt  ,  me$illah):  Solomon 
is  said,  in  2  Ch  9  11,  to  have  made  of  the  algum 
trees  brought  him  from  Ophir  "terraces,"  or  raised 


walks,  for  the  house  of  Jeh.  In  the  ||  1  K  10  12. 
the  word  used  is  rendered  "pillars,"  in  "  'a  railing'; 
Heb  'a  prop.'  " 


TERRIBLE,  ter'i-b'l,  TERROR,  ter'er 
ydrc',  "to  be  feared,"  "reverenced," 
"powerful,"  "tyrannical,"  C'X  , 
inspiring,"  rTP.n  ,  hiltKfi,  "terror,"  nnb2  ,  balldftdfi, 
"a  worn-out  or  wasted  thing,  'TP2X  ,'<~mdfi,  "fright"; 
4>opep6s,  phoberos,  "dreadful,"  4>6pos,  pliobos,  "fear")  : 
The  above  terms,  and  many  others  which  are 
employed,  denote  whatever,  by  horrible  aspect, 
or  by  great  ness,  power,  or  cruelty,  affrights  men 
(Dt  1  19;  26  <S;  Dnl  2  31).  God  is  terrible  by 
reason  of  His  awful  greatness,  His  infinite  power, 
His  inscrutable  dealings,  His  perfect  holiness,  His 
covenant  faithfulness,  His  strict,  justice  and  fearful 
judgments  (Ex  34  10;  Dt  7  21;  Neh  9  32;  Job 
6  4;  37  22;  Ps  65  ",;  88  15  f;  Joel  211;  Zeph 

2  11;   He  12  21).     The  term  is  also  applied  to  the 
enemies  of  God  and  of  His  people  (Isa  13  1  1  ;    25 
3fT;    49  2f>;    Dnl  7  7;    1   Pet  3  14).     "The  terror 
[RV"fear"]  of  the  Lord"  (2  Cor  5  11)  denotes  the 
reverence   or   fear   inspired    by   the   thought   that 
Christ  is  judge  (ver  10).  M.  O.  EVANS 

TERTIUS,  tur'shi-us  (T^p-rios,  T6rtios):  The 
amanuensis  of  Paul  who  wrote  at  his  dictation  the 
Ep.  to  the  Rom.  In  the  midst  of  Paul's  greetings 
to  the  Christians  in  Rome  he  interpolated  his  own, 
"I  Tertius,  who  write  the  epistle,  salute  you  in  the 
Lord"  (Rom  16  22).  "It  is  as  a  Christian,  not 
in  virtue  of  any  other  relation  he  has  to  the  Romans, 
that  Tertius  salutes  them"  (Denney).  Some  iden- 
tify him  with  Silas,  owing  to  the  fact  that  shtillsh 
is  the  Heb  for  "third  [officer],"  as  tertius  is  the  Lat. 
Others  think  _he  was  a  Rom  Christian  residing  in 
Corinth.  This  is,  however,  merely  conjecture. 
Paul  seems  to  have  dictated  his  letters  to  an  amanu- 
ensis, adding  by  his  own  hand  merely  the  concluding 
sentences  as  "the  token  in  every  epistle"  (2  Thcss 

3  17;     Col  4  18;     1  Cor  16  21).     How    far    this 
may  have  influenced  the  style  of  hig  letters  is  dis- 
cussed in  Sanday-Headlam,  Romans,  Intro,  Ix. 

S.  F.  HUNTER 

TERTULLUS,  ter-tul'us,  ter-(T^m»XXos,  Tcrtullos, 
diminutive  of  Lat  tertius,  "third"):  An  orator 
who  descended  with  Ananias  the  high  priest  and 
elders  from  Jerus  to  Caesarea  to  accuse  Paul  before 
Felix  the  Rom  governor  (Acts  24  1).  Tertullus 
was  a  hired  pleader  whose  services  were  necessary 
that  the  case  for  the  Jews  might  be  stated  in  proper 
form.  Although  he  bore  a  Rom  name,  he  was  not 
necessarily  a  Roman;  Rom  names  were  common 
both  among  Greeks  and  Jews,  and  most  orators 
were  at  this  time  of  eastern  extraction.  Nor  is  it 
definitely  to  be  concluded  from  the  manner  of  his 
speech  (Acts  24  2-S)  that  he  was  a  Jew;  it  has 
always  been  customary  for  lawyers  to  identify  them- 
selves in  their  pleading  with  their  clients.  His 
speech  before  Felix  is  marked  by  considerable 
ingenuity.  _  It  begins  with  an  adulation  of  the 
governorship  of  Felix  that  was  little  in  accord 
with  history  (see  FELIX);  and  the  subsequent 
argument  is  an  example  of  how  a  strong  case  may 
apparently  be  made  out  by  the  skilful  manipulation 
of  half-truths.  Thus  the  riot  at  Jerus  was  ascribed 
to  the  sedition-mongering  of  Paul,  who  thereby 
proved  himself  an  enemy  of  Rom  rule  and  Jewish 
religion,  both  of  which  Felix  was  pledged  to  uphold. 
Again,  the  arrest  of  Paul  was  not  an  act  of  mob 
violence,  but  was  legally  carried  out  by  the  high 
priests  and  elders  in  the  interests  of  peace;  and 
but  for  the  unwarranted  interference  of  Lysias  (see 
LYSIAS),  they  would  have  dealt  with  the  prisoner 
in  their  own  courts  and  thus  have  avoided  tres- 


Testament 

TextandMSS(NT) 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2950 


passing  on  the  time  of  Felix.  They  were,  however, 
perfectly  willing  to  submit  the  whole  case  to  his 
jurisdiction.  It  is  interesting  to  compare  this 
speech  of  Tertullus  with  the  true  account,  as  given 
in  Acts  21  27-3."),  and  also  with  the  letter  of 
Lysias  (Acts  23  26-30).  C.  M.  KERB 

TESTAMENT,  tes'ta-ment:  The  word  5ia0i^, 
diathc.kc,  almost,  invariably  rendered  "covenant,"  was 
rendered  in  AV  "testament"  in  He  9  1(5.17,  in  the 
sense  of  a  will  to  dispose  of  property  after  the  maker's 
death.  It  is  not  easy  to  find  justification  for  the  re- 
tention of  this  tr  in  RV,  "osp.  in  a  book  which  is  so 
impregnated  with  the  language  of  the  LXX  as  the 
Ep.  to  the  He"  (Hatch).  See  COVENANT  IN  THE  NT. 

TESTAMENT,  NEW,  CANON  OF  THE.      See 

CANON  OF  THI<;  NEW  TESTAMKNT. 

TESTAMENT,  NEW,  TEXT  AND  MANU- 
SCRIPTS OF  THE.  Sec;  TEXT  AND  MSS  OF  THE 
NT. 

TESTAMENT  OF  ISAAC.  Sec  APOCALYPTIC 
LITERATURE,  IV,  3. 

TESTAMENT,   OLD,   CANON   OF  THE.     See 

CANON  OF  THE  OLD  TESTAMENT. 

TESTAMENT,    OLD,    TEXT    OF    THE.        See 

TEXT  OF  THE  OLD  TESTAMENT. 

TESTAMENTS,  BETWEEN  THE.  See  BE- 
TWEEN THE  TESTAMENTS. 

TESTAMENTS  OF  THE  TWELVE  PA- 
TRIARCHS. See  APOCALYPTIC  LITERATURE,  I \  ,  1 . 

TESTIMONY,  tes'ti-mo-ni,  ARK   OF  THE  (Ex 

25  21  fj.     See  ARK  OF  THE  COVENANT. 

TETA,  t  e' t  a.     See  ATETA. 

TETH,  teth  (IS):  The  9th  letter  of  the  IIeb 
alphabet;  transliterated  in  this  Encyclopaedia  as 
/(intense/)-  It  cam^also  to  be  used  for  the  number 
9;  and  with  iimw  for  15,  with  zaijin  for  It)  (i.e.  9+1) 
uml  9+7)  to  avoid  forming  regular  series  with  the 
abbreviation  for  Jch.  For  name,  etc,  see  ALPHABET. 


TETRARCH,  te'tnirk,  tefriirk  (Tc 
tr.lrdrchcs):  As  the  name  indicates  it  signifies  a 
prince,  who  governs  one-fourth  of  a  domain  or 
kingdom.  The  Creeks  first  used  the  word.  Thus 
Philip  of  Macedon  divided  Thessaly  into  four 
"tetrarchies."  Later  on  the  Romans  adopted  the 
term  and  applied  it  to  any  ruler  of  a  small  princi- 
pality. It  is  not  synonymous  with  "ethnarch," 
at  least  the  Romans  made  a  distinction  between 
Herod  "tetrarch"  of  Galilee,  Philip  "tetrarch"  of 
Trachonitis,  Lysanias  "tetrarch"  of  Abilene,  and 
Archelaus  "ethnarch"  of  Judaea  (BJ,  II,  vi,  3; 
Ant,  XVII,  xi,  4).  The  title  was  often  conferred 
onllerodian  princes  by  the  Romans,  and  sometimes 
it  was  used  courteously  as  a  synonym  for  king  (Mt 
14  9;  Mk  6  14).  In  the  same  way  a  "tetrarchy" 
was  sometimes  called  a  kingdom. 

HENRY  E.  DOSKER 

TETTER,  tet'er  (pH2 ,  bohak;  aX<|>os,  alphas): 
The  term  "freckled  spot"  in  AV  is  thus  rendered  in 
RV.  The  eruption  referred  to  in  Lev  13  39  is  a  pale 
white  spot  on  the  skin.  This  is  described  by  Gor- 
raeus  as  an  eruption  arising  from  a  diseased  state 
of  the  system  without  roughness  of  skin,  scales  or 
liberation.  It  did  not  render  the  sufferer  unclean, 
although  it  is  difficult  of  cure.  The  disease  is  com- 
monly known  by  its  Lat  name  vitiligo.  Pliny  rec- 


ommended the  use  of  capers  and  lupins  to  remove 
it.     See  FRECKLED  SPOT;  LEPRO.SY. 

TEXT  AND  MANUSCRIPTS  OF  THE   NEW 
TESTAMENT: 

I.      SOUKCES  OF  EVIDENCE  FOU  THE  TEXT  OF  THE  NT 

1.  \utoKraphs  of  the  NT  Writers 

2.  Papyrus  Fragments  of  the  Creek  NT 
3     Greek  Copies  or  MSS  of  the  NT  Text 

4.  List  of  MSS  of  the  Greek  NT 

(1)  Uncials 

(2)  Minuscules 

5.  Vernacular  Versions 

6.  Patristic  Quotations 

7.  Lectionaries  and  Service-Books 

II.      NECESSITY     OF     SIFTINC.     AND     CRITICIZING     THE 
EVIDENCE 

III.  METHODS  OF  CRITICAL  PROCEDURE 

IV.  IIISTOKY  OF  THE  PROCESS 
LITERATURE 

The  literary  evidence  to  the  text    of  the  XT  is 
vastly  more  abundant  than  that  to  any  other  series 
of  writings  of  like  compass  in  the  entire  range  of 
ancient  letters.     Of  the  sacred  books  of  the  Heb 
Bible  there  is  no  known  copy  antedating  the  l()th 
cent.  AD.     Of  Homer  there  is  no  complete  copy 
earlier  than  the  13th  cent.     Of  Herodotus  there  is 
no  MS  earlier  than  the  10th  cent.     Of  Vergil  but 
one  copy  is  earlier  than  the  4th  cent.,  and  but,  a 
fragment  of  all  Cicero's  writings  is  even  as  old  as 
this.     Of  the  NT,  however,  we  have  two  splendid 
MSS  of  the  4th  cent.,  at  least  ten  of  the  f>th,  twenty- 
five  of  the  (>th  and  in  all  a  total  of  more  than  four 
thousand  copies  in  whole  or  in  part  of  the  Gr  NT. 
To  these  copies  of  the  text  itself  may  be  added  the 
very  import  ant  and  even  more  ancient  evidence  of  the 
VSS  of  the  NT  in  the  Lat,  Syr,  and  Egyp  tongues, 
and  the  quotations  and  clear  references  to  the  NT 
readings  found  in  the  works  of  the  early  Church 
Fathers,  as  well  as  the  inscriptions  and  monumental 
data  in  Syria,  Asia  Minor,  Africa,  Italy,  and  Greece, 
dating  from  the  very  age  of  the  apostles  and  their 
immediate  successors.     It  thus  appears  that   the 
documents  of  the  Christian  faith  are  both  so  many 
and  so  widely  scattered  that  these  very  facts  more 
than  any  others  have  embarrassed  the  final  deter- 
mination of  the  text.     Now,  however,  the  science  of 
textual    criticism    has    so    far    advanced    and    the 
textual  problems  of  the  Gr  Testament  have  been  so 
well    traversed   that   one  may   read   the  Christian 
writings  with  an  assurance  approximating  certainty. 
Professor  Eberhard  Nestle  speaks  of  the  Gr  text 
of  the  NT  issued  by  Wcstcott  and  Ilort  as  the 
"nearest  in  its  approach  to  the  goal."     Professor 
Alexander  Sout  er's  st  udent  's  edit  ion  of  the  Revisers 
Gr  NT,    Oxford,    1910,    no  doubt   attains   even   a 
higher  watermark.     It,  is  the  purpose  of  the  present 
article  to  trace,  as  far  as  it  can  be  done  in  a  clear 
and  untechnical  manner,  the  process  of  connection 
between  the  original  writings  and  this,  one  of  the 
latest  of  the  editions  of  the  Gr  NT. 

7.   Sources    of   Evidence    for    the    Text  of   the 
NT. — Until  very  recent  times  it  has  not  been  cus- 
tomary to  take  up  with  any  degree  of 
1.  The  confidence,  if  at  all,  the  subject  of  NT 

Autographs  autographs,  but  since  the  researches 
of  the  NT  in  part  icular  of  Dalman,  Deissrnann, 
Writers  Moulton(W.  F.)  and  Milligan  (George), 
the  task  is  not  only  appropriate  but 
incumbent  upon  the  careful  student.  The  whole 
tendency  of  recent  investigation  is  to  give  less 
place  to  the  oral  tradition  of  Christ's  life  and  teach- 
ing and  to  press  back  the  date  of  the  writing  of 
the  Synoptic  Gospels  into  the  period  falling  be- 
tween Pentecost  and  the  destruction  of  Jerus.  Sir 
William  M.  Ramsay  goes  so  far  as  to  claim  that 
"antecedent  probability  founded  on  the  general 
character  of  personal  and  contemporary  Greek  of 
Gr-Asiatic  society"  would  indicate  "that  the  first 
Christian  account  of  the  circumstances  connected 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  JilHLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Testament 

Text  and  MSS  (NT) 


with  the  death  of  Jesus  must-  be  presumed  to  have 
been  written  in  the  year  when  Jesus  (lied"  (Letters 
to  the  Seven  Churches,  7).  W.  M.  Flinders  Petrie 
argues  to  tin;  same  end  and  says:  "Some  generally 
accepted  CJospels  must,  have  been  in  circulation 
before  (>0  AD.  Tlie  mass  of  briefer  records  and 
Login,  which  the;  habits  and  culture  of  that  age 
would  produce  must  have  been  welded  together 
within  10  or  20  years  by  the  external  necessities" 
(The  drowlh  of  the,  Gospels,  7). 

The  autographs  of  the  NT  writers  have  long  been 


sometimes  with  a  sentence;  or  two  at  the  end.  The 
method  of  personal  research  was  pursued,  as 
well  as  compilation  of  diverse  data  including  folk- 
lore and  genealogies,  together  with  the  grouping 
of  cognate  matters  in  artistic  forms  and  abundant 
quotation  in  writings  held  in  high  esteem  by  the 
readers,  as  in  the  First  and  Third  Gospels  and  the 
Book  of  Acts.  The  presentation  copy  of  one's 
works  must  have  been  written  with  unusual  pains 
in  case  of  their  dedication  to  a  patrician  patron,  as 
Lk  to  "most  excellent  Theophilus."  For  specula- 


M  t  i  irn 
"»YAAMU>t:r 

\KXKMHC   It-NlfOl' 

HI  VM  t  H  in  u >yAA*r 

Soyt  >t  '".<.  Yt  i   IXIH 
HXKS  J  /C 
'I'ONAAO 


VXt'l  t 

HKfiKcmt 


It  JMc'NOY 
a   rCfOCKAH  K<-M 


OM-VMtrll  It  Ml  |t> 
I'  l  -  yt )  C  N  I  t  t  X  >X*  |  X 
i-xi  t-AJs'l'i  KtU<;jjt 

;  i  toy  i  it  Aioyt  /IA 

\Xlt-MOIOI  ltl>t)<X 

>f  4 1 1  f  tu: 


»  <i  jyvxiM  '|  i-c  ' 

1  oYKAfi  AXXIU  t 

H  Of<  yon  CAM  KX/ 


AON  i  i  j|  i  lANXft) 

M  u  i|-oi  n  t  MAY  l-> 
1 1  Dt  t  AOUH  it  (.:  IA. 

0  Mt    I  |  AMI  IK>H  IM 
ll't  I  XI  AIOM  IAOM 

1  t'OAf  I  111  i  A<  '  i  i.  t> 
t   VAj'l  ICAJ  IX  AJ'XI  I 
Mil  AM  IMtXJ>OA|> 

"l<A.K~AOt»  i  1 tx  t> 
I  HMoiKixr  HAC  >n 

I  Ol  IXI  AlOMMt    |  A 
M  Aj'IXt'J  H<:MI  II  JV» 
KY  lOyKXIJ  KX  t)»  i 
I  t-VI  I  /'t  JtX'K  YJMI  I-K-. 


>  I 


KI>M;  iron  tM*f.' 

MKY  H  PAtH/'A- 
I'fot  iKMAI  KXH- 


it  i  \i  H  -<  >i--»  j  l< 


KOJ 


IIAJAIOMKA  f  i  io4 
M  1 1  M.yxxy  i  <  »YI<AJ 

vbt  YJ  <  'l  H^Aj  i  yj|  j  ,1 

XhJt^f  I  Kl>tX)i  Mt'K 
Al-IIAf  HfXUAMC- 
"/.M  I  IN  lt)|  M'Alt>M 
loyAI  IX>At '(-{• 
C)At  Cl  C-fOfK. 

\AK<'  roi  K  AK>N 

KAI  I  I  INMl  (   Kf  A 
AV  IOYNYK  1OCIOO 
XNCXCUf  I  |(  t  NCI 

t:xn  YI  i  IONKAJH 
t-Kitxi>t-i  HC  it>.«y 
1 1  K  Tift  DAOY;NX 

I  I  AM  I'tDOl  I  K>PI  lt>' 

YI  lOKyAi  Ait)Ynf. 


«.->  AH  YI  i')  tvyeKA 
Atx- A'l  OMY-N  M  (>Y 

IOI  i  |  |  j'tDAI  It^lAtl  > 
t  1  I  K    tJt  I  ICXt)M  Y 
1  It)  KUfsl  MAI  tl>i- 
lt)YMCl)t.>l  I  AVI' A  ^ 
KXI  XI  Kit:  I  lAXt'A 
KIClArMIIAN  JXC" 

i  tiyc  i  ixixxtrioY' 

t:M  Kl  lOAft-M'KXI 

t  Nl  1XCT 

AY  intr, 

KAlIx  AJtl)  Iff  U>i<A 


I'XXM  AlvXXJi>Yt  AJ 
TMt'-KXI 


OYKHOtXC^IIArA 
KAMOWNXUVIIOY 

|<t-|t~l  N 

Ct-^-y  1 1 jt'X^'  lt)t: 

At:'K>Y'  M't-l'XOY.' 


•||^|>t  NX! 
I  Y»»  ICDAt  I  vl)N< 
f  OfOl'JVI  |X>'AAAK- 
I  Ol  |XJAIt>N!vX|  |  || 


KXI  |'|  K;-|  |  ,O|<j  ( j 

t'.tnr  u  1 1  i  M«  (•>  t '  • 

I  I  It  lt)YAi  XtsXl  I 
*  If  I  AMOt  'I  It  I  U 
K«  I 


IMO!  I  i 
KK>  1  !' 

ioyjKt-i»» 


"It'l  I  IN  MIX- 
It  OM  I  IK  At  I  Ml  Aj' 

6l  /H  IOY  ti  i  tx:  1 1  in 
"YYXI '  M  i^V  i<  'Xl-i 
t^At-X'i  t  jx>K  i  ixrt 
AAKt    IO!  J  XI  AIOM 
KXI  I  I  IMM  CAXYI") 
KXK  |CjP|XA>f.Nt  I 

I  II  Ml  I  IX 

AKOYCXC AC  6 1 1  xp. 
Xt-  xxt  >  t :  K  At :  i  At  "Yt  i 

II  ICIt)YAXI  AOXM  I  i 
lOY'l  I  PfXY  loynfa 
Ao"|XX[>t  >KI  lt)l  IO<tl 
\\  H    At)t    I  NXf  I  IMA 

:  u  t  H  it  :AO\>  M  )^J>f 

^l-lt  XtDj'l  KX   fjt  I- 
I  Ar  Iff  II  I  MCI  AAl 
AAI  At'K  XI  C  At)tl)M 
|\XI  tl»x|  I  Vt-MC  If 
f  iOXI  M  At  I  t)MtMI  I 
iNlXXA/'t    IOI  Ul>f 
I  lAMfUJOl  I  I  O/IK)- 
A I  X'lXi ) ;  -4 1  i  ftxf.^1 1  (-»• 
OIINA- 
,  KAHtil 

'i  I  Ssl  AC  |X|ri»MC}X  t~, 

r   l  l«    I  NXlf!  i  A 


UKX  Ml  iu  I 'HM< ' 
*    lOIMXt  AM     |MM 
tlAONKYt-VOI  At 
M<tlt-t  I  Xi  I  At^  j  f  | 


M  !  K  t   I  XX'M'I  t  u  f  , 

AYM  xxy  1 1  >yxi  u> 

I  f  ("XUHIKXM!  IK-i 
fx'  A!  /(I  IKJ  MM  A«    f 
K1  A  I  /  M  I  I  I  >  >  !  t.   f  f 
|  H  MtVt  Xf>;  M  Ayi-j 
MM     I  /'t  )•!(•»  H  '  '  J  'I 

A I  K I    f '  !  t  >  f  J 

I  o  1 1  i   >  t  J  (i  »/'*   ; i 

I  tl)  !  }'<^*-"x"l    !  (  )M  ' 


f-;nff  ixu> 


l\  A I «.  K  XM  I  !  /.t  l  M  I 
t'H'l  U>IOf  AXt-l  t  ! 
f  ltV|  AMU  )t  >.tJf  '" 


I  U>H 

I  A.U  >M  At   I  H  )^.  M  ''j' 

KXK  XAAOYKX! 
tr  f  XO  M  fc"  N  O  Y<  4 


1  |C VI  !*->vtM  >t 
M  I  I- '  -!>vf  I  f4  A-'l" 


FIG.  1.  —FACSIMILE  OF  COD.  SINAITICUS. 


lost,  but  the  discovery  during  the  last  few  years 
of  contemporary  documents  enables  us  to  form  fairly 
clear  notions  as  to  their  general  literary  character 
and  condition.  In  the  first  place  papyrus  was  prob- 
ably the  material  employed  by  all  the  NT  writers, 
even  the  original  Gospel  of  Mt  and  the  general  Ep. 
of  Jas,  the  only  books  written  within  Pal,  not  being 
excepted,  for  the  reason  that  they  were  not  origi- 
nally written  with  a  view  to  their  liturgical  use,  in 
which  case  vellum  might  possibly  have  been  em- 
ployed. Again  the  evidence  of  the  writings  them- 
selves witnesses  to  the  various  literary  processes 
followed  during  the  1st  cent.  Dictation  was  largely 
followed  by  St.  Paul,  the  names  of  at  least  four  of 
his  secretaries,  Tertius,  Sosthencs,  Timothy,  and 
Sylvanus,  being  given,  while  the  master  himself,  as  in 
many  of  the  Egyp  papyri,  appended  hisownsignature, 


tion  as  to  the  probable  dimensions  of  the  original 
papyrus  rolls  of  NT  books,  one  will  find  Professor 
J.  Itendel  Harris  and  Sir  F.  (1.  Kenyon  extremely 
suggestive,  and  from  opposite  viewpoints;  cf 
Kenyon,  Handbook  of  the  Textual  Criticism  of  the 
NT;  Harris,  NT  Autographs. 

Comparatively  few  papyrus  fragments  of  the  NT 
are  now  known  to  be  extant,  and  no  complete 
book  of  the  NT  has  as  yet  been  found,  though  the 
successes  in  the  field  of  contemporary  C.r  writings 
inspire  confidence  that  ere  long  the  rubbish  heaps  of 
Egypt  will  reward  the  diligent  explorer.  Of  the 
LXX  (Cr  OT)  somewhat  more  has  come  to  light 
than  the  NT,  while  the  papyrus  copies  and  frag- 
ments of  Homer  are  almost  daily  increasing. 

The  list  below  is  condensed  from  that  of  Sir  Frederick 
G.  Kcnyoil's  Handbook  of  the  Textual  Criticism  of  the 


TextandMSS(NT)     THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  EXCYCLOPAEDIA 


2952 


2.  Papyrus    ^ 
Fragments 
of  the 
Greek  NT 

IP*    Lk  1  74-80; 


1) 


IP 


NT,  2d  ed,    1912,   41  ff,    using   Dr.   Gregory's  method 
of  notation. 

331    Mt  1   1-9.12.14-20.     3d   cent.      Found  at  Oxyrhyn- 
chus in  1896,  now  in  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 
See  illustration  under  PAPYRUS. 
Jn  12   12-15  in  (!r  on  the  verso,  with 
Lk  7    18  ff   in  Sahidic    on    the    recto. 
51  h    or    tith    cent.      In   book   form,  at 
the  Museo  Archeologico,   Florence. 
Lk  7  36-43;    10  38-42.     6th  cent.    In 
book  form.     In  the  Rainer  Collection, 
Vienna. 

.   5  3-8.30 — 6  4.    4th    cent.     In  book 

form.      Found  in    Kgypt  joined   to  a   MS  of   Philo; 
now  in  the  Bibliotheque  Nationale,  Paris. 
Jn  1  23-31.33-41;    20   11-17. 19-25.     3d  cent.      An 
outer    sheet    of     a    single-quire     book.      Found    at 
Oxvrhynchus  and  now  in  the  British  Museum. 
Jn  11  45.      University  of  Strassburg. 
Lk  412       Archaeological  Museum  at   Kierr. 
Acts  4  31-37;     5  2-9;     6   1-6.8-15.     4th   cent.     In 
the  Berlin  Museum. 
3D9    1  Jn  4   11-13.15-17.     4th    or    5th    cent.     In    book 
form.     Found   at   Oxyrhynchus;     now   in   Harvard 
University  Library. 
Jjjio  Horn  1    1-7.     4th    cent.      Found    at    Oxyrhynchus; 

now  in  Harvard  University  Library. 
33ii   1    Cor   1    17-20;     6    13-18;     7  3.4.10-14.      5th   cent. 

In  the  Imperial  Library  at  St.   Petersburg. 
31'2  He  1    1.     3d  or  4th  cent.      In  the  Amherst  Library. 
He  2   14—5  5;      10  8—11    13;      11   28-12   17.     3d 
or    4th    cent.     Found    at    Oxyrhynchus;      now     in 
the  British   Museum. 

1   Cor  1   25-27;    2  3-8;    3  8-10.20.     5th  cent,     In 
book    form;     at    St.    Catherine's    Monastery,    Mt. 

nis  l"clor  7  IS— 8  4;    Phil  3  9-17;    4  2-8.     4th  cent. 

Found  at  Oxyrhynchus. 
J3i«  Horn  12  3-8.     tith  or  7th  cent,      Kyland  s  Library, 

Manchester. 
J_3"  Tit  1   11-15;     2  3  8.     3d  cent.     Rylands  Library, 

Manchester. 

S's  He  9  12-19.     4th  cent.     Found  at  Oxyrhynchus. 
is  Rev  1  4-7.     3d  or  4th  cent.      Found  at  Oxyrhyn- 
chus. 

Gr  copies  or  MSS  of  the  NT  text,  have  hitherto 

been  and  probably  will  continue  to  be  the  chief 

source  of  data  in  this  great  field.     For 

3.  Greek       determining  the  existence  of  the  text 
Copies  or       in    its   most   ancient,   form   the   auto- 
MSS  of  the  graphs    are    of    supreme    value.     For 
NT  Text         determining  the  content  or  extent  of 

the  text  the  VSS  are  of  highest  worth. 
For  estimating  the  meaning  and  at  the  same  time  for 
gaining  additional  data,  both  as  to  existence  and 
extent  of  usage  of  the  NT,  the  quotations  of  its 
text  by  the  Church  Fathers,  whether  as  apologists, 
preachers,  or  historians,  in  Assyria,  Greece,  Africa, 
Italy  or  Gaul,  are  of  exceeding  importance.  But  for 
determining  the  readings  of  the  text  itself  the  Gr 
MSS  or  copies  of  the  original  autographs  are  still 
the  principal  evidence  of  criticism.  About  4,000 
MSS,  in  whole  or  in  part,  of  the  Gr  NT  are  now 
known.  These  MSS  furnish  abundant  evidence  for 
determining  the  reading  of  practically  the  entire; 
NT,  while  for  the  Gospels  and  most  important 
Epp.  the  evidence  is  unprecedented  for  quantity 
and  for  clearness.  They  are  usually  divided  into 
two  classes:  I'ncial,  or  large  hand,  and  Minuscule, 
or  small  hand,  often  called  Cursive.  The  term 
"cursive"  is  not,  satisfactory,  since  it  does  not 
coordinate  with  the  term  "uncial,"  nor  arc  so-called 
cursive  feat  ures  such  as  ligatures  and  oval  forms  con- 
fined to  minuscule  MSS.  The  uncials  comprise  about 
140  copies  extending  from  the  4th  to  the  10th  cents. 
The  minuscules  include  the  remaining  MSS  and  fall 
between  the  9th  cent,  and  the  invention  of  printing. 
Herewith  is  given  a  brief  description  of  a  few  of  the 
chief  MSS,  both  uncial  and  minuscule,  of  the  NT. 
(1)  Uncials. — S.  Cod.  Sinaiticus  found  by  Tisch- 
endorf  at  St.  Catherine's  Monastery  on  Mt.  Sinai 
and  now  in  the  Imperial  Library  at 

4.  List  of       St.  Petersburg;    4th  cent.    This  is  the 
MSS  of  the  only    uncial  which    contains   the    NT 
Greek  NT     entire.     It  also  has  the  Ep.  of  Barnabas 

and  part  of  the  Shepherd  of  Hernias 
and  possibly  originally  the  Didache.     The  marks  of 


many  correctors  are  found  in  the  text.  It,  is  written 
on  147^  leaves  of  very  thin  vellum  in  four  narrow  col- 
umns of  48  lines  each.  The  pages  measure  15Xl3j 
in.,  and  the  leaves  are  arranged  in  quaternions  of  four 
sheets.  The  open  sheet  exposing  eight  columns  re- 
sembles greatly  an  open  papyrus  roll.  There  is  but 
rudimentary  punctuation  and  no  use  of  accent  or 
initial  letters,  but  the  Eusebian. section  numbers  are 
found  on  the  margin  of  the  Gospels.  Fig.  1  is  from 
the  photographic  facsimile  of  K ,  published  by  the 
Oxford  University  Press  in  1911. 

A.  Cod.  Alexandrinus,  so  named  since  it  was  sup- 
posed to  have  come  from  Alexandria,  being  the  gift 
of  Cyril  Lucar,  at  one  time  Patriarch  of  that  Prov- 
ince, though  later  of  Constantinople,  to  Charles  I, 
through   the  English   ambassador  at  the  Turkish 
court  in  1627,  and  in  1757  presented  to  the  Royal 
Library  and  now  in  the  British  Museum.     It  doubt- 
less belongs  to  the  5th  cent.,   and  contained  the 
entire  NT,  lacking  now  only  portions  of  Mt,  Jn, 
and  1  Cor,  as  well  as  the  two  Epp.  of  Clement  of 
Rome  and  the  Ps  Sol.     It  is  written  on  thin  vellum 
in  two  columns  of  4 1  lines  to  the  page,  which  is  12  jj  X 
lOf  in.;    employs  frequent  initial  capitals,  and  is 
divided  into  paragraphs,  but  has  no  marginal  signs 
except   in    the    Gospels.     Several   different   hands 
are  discovered  in  the  present  state  of  the  MS. 

B.  Cod.  Vaticanus,  since  1481,  at  least,  the  chief 
treasure  of  the  Vatican   Library,   and  universally 
esteemed  to  be  the  oldest  and  best  MS  of  the  Gr 
NT;    4th  cent.     Written  on  very  fine  vellum,  the 
leaves  nearly  square  in  shape,  10X  10£  in.,  with  three 
narrow  columns  of  40-44  lines  per  column  and  five 
sheets  making  the  quire.     A  part  of  the  Ep.  to  the 
He  and  the  Pastorals,  Philem  and  Rev  are  lack- 
ing.    It  is  without  accents,  breathings  or  punctua- 
tion, though  corrected  and  retraced  by  later  hands. 
In  the  Gospels  the  divisions  are  of  an  earlier  date 
than  in  Cod.  N.     The  theory  of  Tischcndorf  that 
Codd.  X  and  B  were  in  part  prepared  by  the  same 
hand  and  that  they  were  both  among  the  50  MSS 
made  under  the  direction  of  Eusebius  at  Caesarea 
in  331  for  use  in  the  emperor  Constantino's  new 
capital,  is  not  now  generally  accepted. 

C.  Cod.     Ephraemi    Rescriptus.     This    is    the 
great  palimpsest  (twice  written)  MS  of  the  uncial 
group,   and   originally   contained  _  the  whole    NT. 
Now,    however,    a    part— approximately    half — of 
every  book  is  lacking,  and  2  Thess  and  2  Jn  are 
entirely    gone.     It    belongs   to    the   5th    cent.,    is 
written  on  good  vellum  9X12|  in.  to  the  page  of 
41  lines,  and  of  one  column  in  the  original  text, 
though  the  superimposed  writings  of  St.  Ephraem 
are  in  two.     Enlarged  initials  and  the  Eusebian 
marginal  sections  are  used  and  several  hands  have 
corrected  the  MS.     See  Fig.  2.     Brought  to  Italy 
from  the  East  in  the  Ib'th  cent.,  it  came  to  France 
with  Catherine  de'  Medici  and  is  now  in  the  Biblio- 
theque  Nationale,  Paris. 

D.  Cod.  Bezae.     This  is  the  early  known  MS 
which  Theodore  Beza  obtained  in   1562  from  the 
monastery  of  St.  Irenacus  at  Lyons  and  which  he 
gave  in  1581  to  the  University  of  Cambridge,  where 
it  now  is.     It  is  a  Gr-Lat  text,  the  Gr  holding  the 
chief  place  on  the  left-hand  page,  measuring  8X10 
in.,  and  dates  probably  from  the  end  of  the  5th 
cent.     Both  Gr  and  Lat  are  written  in  large  uncials 
and  divided  into  short  clauses,  corresponding  line 
for  line.     The  hands  of  no  less  than  nine  correctors 
have  been  traced,  and  the  critical  questions  arising 
from  the  character  of  the  readings  are  among  the 
most  interesting  in  the  whole  range  of  Bib.  criticism 
and  are  still  unsettled.     It  contains  only  the  Gospels 
and  Acts  with  a  fragment  of  3  Jn. 

W.  Cod.  Washingtoniensis.  The  United  States 
has  now  in  the  National  Library  (Smithsonian) 
at  the  capital  one  of  the  foremost  uncial  MSS  of  the 


_  __  *w 

*^*y&y4^/Kee^KM£JW--&w.<&* 


IjjWjj^^ 

••&•]£•,'  M:-    '"~-   :1*  ^-**"  ~&~    <-L-     ^MB^HB^'->*W     — — »       •-     — ^    — ^  —          .j.^i»fc_ -^ 


<m 


y 


'r^A^jM^OSM 

"J<*&^  \ 

•  ^$wte^^ 

^/J^^^^'J^\  J^MJ&~&TtMJ^^jHl?^&^_.^^\^']*         '•&$&$$ 


W&*#gw^^  . ' .  • 

L  \*£/j^7^t^ 

''^M^Mj&£#n^*, 

'f  *"  *  •  •/•  *•  -'       .*-'  ™  .  ••••'  •-        <    y4"-"^ 

'.^-/y<* 


•J&. 


'Uf.lf  ^..^v,..i 

•L-,/A..-  •*  .^•%^*v-i 


SECTION  OF  CODEX   WASHIXGTONIENSIS   (MARK   1:1-7) 


Till-;  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Text  and  MSSfNT) 


Gr  NT.  It  is  ;i  complete  codex  of  the  Gospels,  in 
u  slightly  sloping  but  very  ancient  hand,  written 
upon  good  vellum,  in  one  column  of  30  lines  to  the 
page,  and  6X9  in.  in  size.  By  all  the  tests  ordi- 


Mr.  C.  L.  Freer  of  Detroit,  who  obtained  the  MS 
in  Egypt  in  1906,  and  is  edited  by  Professor  II.  A. 
Sanders  for  the  I'niversity  of  Michigan  Press,  191  1. 
See  accompanying  page  insert. 


r^i«wiwrA>|»'iJi*«tr*!Wi^::'i  ij-  '•mnmnm^am-Tv.*'**'*;**? ., 

\*^w~«&t#^**^<-"<  i  M»**rmM2«*^*  :.^»W*^N; 

i»'i-u>\  U'Hrt'Cf  HJH^AtU \}^  -^^-Vi^yksi«4^^>^4^«Ar» 
4Wf  Wfr^^^^*^*4  u?(  'M^wJTr^M^K^SjW  • 
f^^aSS&sk^  Wes^  •  A  ,  -v  i^ai^w^««a^^  iw 

"wS^t^^^ 


•Wft'C»«f  HJrmwWI^  WT"  ^W I   «.*«  1^*  I  t^rrro-.^   >  •  'Y\        ~Z Vfrff<>4LV' 

WWIW'hW^^ 

5^1'x!  lK;>.a:  rii^'KH  f  lu"''*"''.^   -     •''i'^<--<1*     ^w^f^^       -»mrfi>'  '•  ' 

f  i7^*t  fri^tT^5^ViI ^M  VOIM  ,viii-  ^^N'ti  '«••  ^^^  •YS ' '  *  jT\  ^  ^  L    '-  >L^T^ ' 


r.-'S^^por^mJ^ 

B^^-Tfft^f^-^WB  tv%4  ^  '" "  ^^^ 

^i!X^^ 


p;<rt*»«^9«^^wuvitsffs 


FIG.  2. — FACSIMILE  OF  COD.  EPHRAEMI  RESCKIPTUS. 


narily  given,  it,  belongs  to  the  period  of  the  earliest 
codices,  possibly  of  the  4th  cent.  Like  Cod.  D,  it 
has  the  order  of  the  Gospels:  Mt,  Jn,  Lk,  Mk,  and 
contains  an  apocryphal  interpolation  within  the 
longer  ending  of  Mk  for  which  no  ot  her  Gr  authority 
is  known,  though  it  is  probably  referred  to  by  St. 
Jerome.  It  has  been  published  in  facsimile  by 


(2)  Minuscules. — Out  of  the  thousands  of  minus- 
cule MSS  now  known  only  the  four  used  by  Erasmus, 
together  with  one  now  found  in  the  United  States, 
will  bo  enumerated. 

1.  This  is  an  llth-cent.  codex  at  Basel.  It 
must  have  been  copied  from  a  good  uncial,  as  its 
text  often  agrees  with  Codd.  X  and  B. 


TextandMSSfNT)     THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


29/54 


lr.  Of  the  12th  cent.,  and  now  at  Mayhingen, 
Bavaria.  This  is  the  only  MS  Erasmus  luul  for 
Rev  in  his  cdilio  prince i^,  and  being  defective  at  the 
end,  22  16-21,  lie  supplied  the  Gr  text  by  retrans- 
lating from  the  Lat ;  cf  TR  and  AV.  Generally 
speaking,  this  MS  is  of  high  quality. 

2.  This  is  a  loth-cent.  MS  at  Basel,  and  was  that 
on  which  Erasmus  most  depended  for  his  1st  ed, 
15 1C).  It  reflects  a  good  quality  of  text. 

2:ip.  Some  have  assigned  this  MS  to  the  12th 
cent.,  though  it  was  probably  later.  It  is  at  Basel, 
and  was  the  principal  text  used  by  Erasmus  in  the 
Acts  ;md  Epp. 

667.  As  illustrating  a  good  type  of  minuscule 
of  the  Gospels,  set-  Eig.  3,  taken  from  Evangelistaria 
667,  which  came  from  an  island  of  the  Sea  of  Mar- 
mora; purchased  in  Constantinople  by  Dr.  Albert 
L  Long  in  ]s<)2  and  now  in  the  Drew  Semi- 
nary Library  at  Madison,  N.,1. 

Vernacular  VSS,  or  translations  of  the  Scrip- 
tures into  the  tongues  of  western  Christendom, 
were,  some  of  them,  made  as  early 
6.  Vernacu-  as  the  2d  cent .,  and  thus  antedate 
lar  Versions  by  several  generations  our  best- 
known  Greek  text.  It  is  con- 
sidered by  many  as  providential  that  the  Bible 
was  early  trd  into  different  tongues,  so  that  its 
corruption  to  any  large  extent  became  almost 
if  not  altogether  an  impossibility,  since  the  VSS 
of  necessity  belonged  to  parts  of  the  church 
widely  removed  from  one  another  and  with 
very  diverse  doctrinal  and  institut  ional  tenden- 
cies. The  testimony  of  trs  to  the  exact  form 
of  words  used  either  in  an  autograph  or  a  Gr 
copy  of  an  author  is  at  best  not  beyond  dis- 
pute, but  as  evidence  for  the  presence  or 
absence  of  whole  sections  or  clauses  of  the 
original,  their  standing  is  of  prime  importance. 
Such  extreme  literalness  frequently  prevails 
that  the  vernacular  idiom  is  entirely  set  aside 
and  the  order  and  construction  of  words  in  the 
original  sources  are  slavishly  followed  and  even 
transliterated,  so  that  their  bearing  on  many 
questions  at  issue  is  direct  and  convincing. 
Although  the  Gr  NT  has  now  been  trd  into  all 
the  principal  tongues  of  the  earth,  compara- 
tive criticism  is  confined  to  those  VSS  made 
during  the  first  eight  centuries. 

Patristic  (mot  at  ions  afford  a  unique  basis  of 
evidence  for  determining  readings  of  the  NT. 
So  able  and  energetic,  were  the 
6.  Patristic  Church  Fathers  of  the  early  centu- 
Quotations  ries  that  it  is  entirely  probable  that 
the  whole  text  of  the  Gr  NT  could  be 
recovered  from  this  source  alone,  if  the  writings  of 
apologists,  homilists  and  commentators  were  care- 
fully collated.  It  is  also  true  that  the  earliest 
heretics  as  well  as  the  defenders  of  the  faith 
recognized  the  importance  of  accurately  determin- 
ing the  original  text,  so  that  their  remains  also 
comprise  no  mean  source  for  critical  research. 
It  is  evident  that  the  value  of  patristic  quota- 
tions will  vary  according  to  such  factors  as  the 
reliability  of  the  reading,  as  quoted,  the  personal 
equation  or  habit  of  accuracy  or  looseness  of  the 
particular  writer,  and  the  purity  or  corruption  of 
the  text  he  employs.  One  of  the  marked  advan- 
tages of  this  sort  of  evidence  arises  from  the  fact 
that  it  affords  additional  ground  for  localizing  and 
dating  the  various  classes  of  texts  found  both  in 
original  copies  and  in  VSS.  For  general  study  the 
more  prominent  Church  Fathers  of  the  2d,  3d  and 
4th  cents,  are  sufficient,  though  profitable  investi- 
gation may  be  made  of  a  much  wider  period.  By 
the  beginning  of  the  5th  cent.,  however,  the  type  of 
text  quoted  almost  universally  was  closely  akin  to 
that  now  known  as  the  TR. 


Lectionaries  and  service-books  of  the  early 
Christian  period  afford  a  source  of  considerable 

value  in  determining  the  general  type 
7.  Lection-  of  texts,  together  with  the  order  and 
aries  and  contents  and  distribution  of  the  several 
Service-  books  of  the  Canon.  As  the  lection- 
Books  ary  systems  both  of  the  eastern  and 

western  churches  reach  back  to  post- 
apostolic  times  and  all  are  marked  by  great  verbal 
conservatism,  they  present  data  of  real  worth  for 
determining  certain  problems  of  textual  criticism. 
From  the  very  nature  of  the  case,  being  compiled 
for  a  liturgical  use,  the  readings  are  often  introduced 
and  ended  by  set  formulas,  but  these  arc  easily 
separated  from  the  text  itself,  which  generally  fol- 
lows copy  faithfully.  Even  the  systems  of  chapter 
headings  and  divisions  furnish  clues  for  classifying 


•f  evAntAiONKATMovK  A  N 


J''i<;.  :i.  -Facsimile  Minuscule  Manuscript. 

and  comparing  texts,  for  there  is  high  probability 
that  texts  with  the  same  chapter  divisions  come 
from  the  same  country.  Probably  the  earliest 
system  of  chapter  divisions  is  preserved  in  Cod. 
Vat.,  coming  down  to  us  from  Alexandria  probably 
by  way  of  Caesarea.  That  it  antedates  the  codex 
in  which  it  appears  is  seen  from  the  fact  that  the 
Pauline  Epp.  are  numbered  as  comprising  a  con- 
tinuous book  with  a  break  between  Gal  and  Eph 
and  the  dislocated  section  numbers  attached  to 
lie  which  follows  2  Thess  here,  though  the  numbers 
indicate  its  earlier  position  after  Gal.  Another 
system  of  chapter  divisions,  at  least  as  old  as  the 
5th  cent.,  found  in  Cod.  Alex.,  cuts  the  text  into 
much  larger  sections,  known  as  Cephalia  Majora. 
In  all  cases  the  enumeration  begins  with  the  2d 
section,  the  1st  being  considered  introductory. 
Bishop  Eusebius  developed  a  system  of  text  division 
of  the  Gospels  based  upon  an  earlier  method  attrib- 
uted to  Ammonius,  adding  a  series  of  tables  or 
Canons.  The  first  table  contained  sections  giving 
events  common  to  all  four  evangelists,  and  its  number 
was  written  beneath  the  section  number  on  the 
margin  in  each  Gospel,  so  that  their  parallels  could 
readily  be  found.  The  2d,  3d  and  4th  Canons  con- 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Text  and  MSS  (NT) 


tain  lists  of  sections  in  which  throe  of  the  Gospels 
have  passages  in  common  (the  combination  Mk, 
Lk,  Jn,  does  not  occur).  The  5th,  6th,  7th,  Sth 
and  9th  contain  lists  in  which  two  combine  (the 
combination  Mk,  Jn,  does  not  occur).  Canon  10 
contains  those  peculiar  to  some  one  of  the  Gospels. 

//.  Necessity  of  Sifting  and  Criticizing  the  Evi- 
e/ence.— Criticism  from  its  very  nature  concerns 
itself  entirely  with  the  problems  suggested  by  the 
errors  of  various  kinds  which  it  brings  to  light.  In 
the  writings  of  the  NT  the  resources  of  textual 
evidence  arc  so  vast,  exceeding,  as  we  have  seen, 
those  of  any  other  ancient  literature,  sacred  or 
secular,  that  the  area  of  actual  error  is  relatively 
cmite  appreciable,  though  it  must  be  remembered 
that  this  very  abundance  of  textual  variety  ulti- 
mately makes  for  the  integrity  and  doctrinal  unity 
of  the  teaching  of  the  NT  books.  Conjectural 
emendation  which  has  played  so  large  a  part  in  the 
restoration  of  other  writings  has  but  slight  place  in 
tin1  textual  criticism  of  the  NT,  whose  materials 
are  so  abundant  that  the  difficulty  is  rather  to  select 
right  renderings  than  to  invent  them.  We  have 
catalogued  the  principal  sources  of  right  readings, 
but  on  the  most  casual  investigation  of  them  dis- 
cover large  numbers  of  wrong  readings  mingled  wit  h 
the  true,  and  must  proceed  to  consider  the  sources 
of  error  or  various  readings,  as  they  are  called,  of 
which  approximately  some  200, 000  are  known  to 
exist  in  the  various  MSS,  VSS,  patristic  citations 
and  other  data  for  the  text. 

"Xot."  as  Dr.  Warfleld  says,  "that  thcro  are  200,000 
places  in  the  NT  where  various  readings  occur,  but  that 
there  are  nearly  200.000  readings  all  told,  and  in  many 
cases  the  documents  so  differ  among  themselves  that 
many  various  readings  are  counted  on  a  single  word,  for 
each  document  is  compared  in  turn  with  one  standard 
and  the  number  of  its  divergences  ascertained,  then  these 
sums  are  themselves  added  together  and  the  result  given 
as  the  number  of  actually  observed  variations."  Dr. 
Ezra  Abbott  was  accustomed  to  remark  that  "about 
nineteen-twcntieths  of  the  variations  have  so  little  sup- 
port that,  although  there  are  various  readings,  no  one 
would  think  of  them  as  rival  readings,  and  nineteen- 
twcntieths  of  the  remainder  are  of  so  little  importance 
that  their  adoption  or  rejection  would  cause  no  appreci- 
able difference  in  the  sense  of  the  passages  in  which  they 
occur."  Dr.  Hort's  view  was  that  "upon  about  one 
word  in  eight,  various  readings  exist  supported  by  suf- 
ficient evidence  to  bid  us  pause  and  look  at  it;  about 
one  word  in  sixty  has  various  readings  upon  it  supported 
by  such  evidence  as  to  render  our  decision  nice  and 
difficult,  but  that  so  many  variations  are  trivial  that 
only  about  one  word  in  every  thousand  has  upon  it 
substantial  variation  supported  by  such  evidence  as  to 
call  out  the  efforts  of  the  critic  in  deciding  between  the 
readings."  The  oft-repeated  dictum  of  Bentley  is  still 
valid  that  "the  real  text  of  the  sacred  writings  is  com- 
petently exact,  nor  is  one  article  of  faith  or  moral  pre- 
cept either  perverted  or  lost,  choose  as  awkwardly  as 
you  will,  choose  the  worst  by  design,  out  of  the  whole 
lump  of  readings."  Despite  all  this,  the  true  scholar 
must  be  furnished  rightly  to  discriminate  in  the  matter 
of  diverse  readings. 

From  the  very  nature  of  the  case  it  is  probable 
that  errors  should  be  frequent  in  the  NT;  indeed, 
even  printed  works  are  not  free  from  them,  as  is 
seen  in  the  most  carefully  edited  editions  of  the 
Eng.  Bible,  but  in  MSS  the  difficulty  is  increased  in 
direct  proportion  to  the  number  of  various  copies 
still  extant.  There  are  two  classes  of  errors  giving 
rise  to  various  readings,  unconscious  or  uninten- 
tional and  conscious  or  intentional. 

Of  the  first  class,  that  of  unconscious  errors,  there  are 
five  sorts: 

(1)  Errors  of  the  ei/<-.  where  the  sight  of  the  copyist 
confuses   letters   or   endings    that    are   similar,    writing 
e.g.  6  for  C;     0  for  0;     A  for  A  or  A ;     TT  for  Tl; 
TTAN  for  TIAN;    M  for  A  A.     Here  should  be  named 
homoeoteleuton,  which  arises  when  two  successive  lines  in 
a  copy  end  in  the  same  word  or  syllable  and   the  eye 
catches  the  second  line  instead  of  the  first  and  the  copyist 
omits  the  intervening  words  as  in  Cod.  C  of  Jn  6  39. 

(2)  Errors  of  the  pen. — Here  is  classed   all  that  body 
of  variation  due  to  the  miswriting  by  the  penman    of 


what  is  correctly  enough  in  his  mind  but  through  careless- 
ness he  fails  rightly  to  transfer  to  the  new  copy.  Trans- 
position of  similar  letters  has  evidently  occurred  in 
Oodd.  E,  M,  and  H  of  Mk  14  05,  also  in  11,L,  of  Acts 
13  23. 

_  (3)  Error*  of  speech.  —  Here  are  included  those  varia- 
tions which  have  sprung  from  the  habit  ual  forms  of  speech 
to  which  the  scribe;  in  the  particular  case  was  accustomed 
and  which  he  therefore!  was  inclined  to  write.  I'nder 
this  head  comes  "itacism,"  arising  from  the  confusion 
of  vowels  and  diphthongs,  esp.  in  dictation.  Thus  i  is 
constantly  written  ei  and  vice  versa;  at  for  t;  rj  and 
i  for  n;  i)  and  ot  for  \>;  o  for  «  and  t  for  i).  It  is  observed 
that  in  Cod.  X  we  have  scribal  preference  for  t  alone,  while 
in  U  ei  is  preferred. 

(4)  Errors  of  m'-mor//.—  Tlies"  are  explained  as  havin" 
arisen  from  the  "copyist,  holding  a  clause  or  sequence 
of  letters  in  his  somewhat  treacherous  memory  between 
the  glance  at  the  MS  to  be  copied  and  his  writing  down 
what  he  saw  there."  He-re  am  classed  (he  numerous 
putty  changes  in  the;  order  e>f  words  and  I  lie  substitution 
of  synonyms,  as  eln-e^  for  e"4»j,  i*  fe>r  i™,  and  vice  versa 

_  (o)  Errors  of  j  u'/>/ ment.—  Under  this  class  Dr.  \Varficld 
cites  "many  rnisreadings  of  abbreviations,  as  also  the 
adoption  e>f  marginal  glejsses  into  the  text  by  which  much 
e>f  the  most  striking  corruption  which  has  entered  the 
te-xt  has  been  produced."  .Xe>table  instances  of  this  tvpe 
of  error  are  found  in  Jn  5  1-4,  explaining  how  it  hap- 
pened that  the  waters  of  Bethesda  were  healing;  and  in 
.Jn?  -r>3 — 8  12,  the  passage  concerning  the  adulteress,  ana 
the  last  twelve  verses  e>f  Mk. 

Turning  to  the  second  class,  that  of  conscious  e>r  inten- 
tional e'rrors,  wo  may  tabulate:: 

(1)  lAruiuistic  or  rhrtorii-,,1  corrections,  ne>  doubt  eifte-n 
made  in  entire  good  faith  under  the  impression  that  an 
error    had    previously    crept    into    the    te-xt    and    needed 
correcting.      Thus   second    aorist   terminations   in   a   are 
changed  t;>  o  and  tlr>  like. 

(2)  Historical  corrections.  —  Fnde-r   this   he;id   is   placed 
all  that  group  e>f  changes  similar  to  the  case-  in  Mk   1   2 
where  the  phrase  "Isaiah  the  prophet"  is  change-el  into 
"  the  prophets." 

(3)  liar  monistic  corrections. — The-se;  are  quite-  frequent 
in  the  Gospels,  e.g.   the  attempte-el   assimilation  of  the 
Lord's  Prayer  in  Lk  to  the  fuller  form  in  Mt,  and  quite 
possibly  the  addition  of  the  words  "e>f  sin"  to  the  phrase 
in  Jn  8  34,  "Every  one  that  doeth  sin  is  a  slave."      A 
certain  group  of  harmemistic  corrupt  ions  where  scribes 
allew  the  memory,  perhaps  unconsciously,  to  affect  the 
writing  may  rightly  be  classed  under  (4)  above. 

(4)  Doctrinal    corrections. — Of    these    it    is    difficult    to 
assert  any  unquestioned  cases  unless  it  be  the  celebrated 
Trinitarian    passage    (AV    1   Jn  5  7.8<;)    or    the    several 
passages  in  which  fasting  is  coupled  with  prayer    as  in 
Mt^l?  21;     Mk  9  29;     Acts  10  30;     1   Cor  ?  5. 

(5)  Liturgical   corrections. — These   are   very   common, 
esp.  in  the  lectionaries,  as  in  the  beginning  of  lessons 
and  are  even  found  in  early  uncials,  e.g.  Lk  8  31;   10  23 
etc. 

///.  Methods  of  Critical  Procedure. — Here  as 
in  other  human  discipline's  necessity  is  the  mother 
of  invention,  anel  the  principles  of  critical  pro- 
cedure rest  almost  entirely  on  the  data  connected 
with  the  errors  and  discrepancies  which  have  con- 
sciously or  unconsciously  crept  into  the  text.  The 
elictum  of  Dr.  Ge-eirge  Salmon  that  "God  has  at  no 
time  given  His  church  a  text  absolutely  free  from 
ambiguity"  is  true  warrant  for  a  free  and  continued 
inquiry  into  this  attractive  field  of  study.  The 
process  of  textual  criticism  has  gradually  evolved 
certain  rules  based  upon  judgments  formed  after 
patiently  classifying  and  taking  into  account  all  the 
documentary  evidence  available,  both  internal  and 
external. 

(1)  An  _  older  reaeling  is  preferable  to  one  later, 
since   it   is   presumed   to   be   nearer   the   original. 
However,  mere  age  is  no  sure  proe>f  of  purity,  as  it 
is  now  clear  that  very  many  of  the  corruptions  of 
the  text  became  current  at  an  early  date,  so  that 
in  some  cases  it  is  found  that   later  copies  really 
represent  a  more  ancient  reading. 

(2)  A  more  difficult  reading,  if  well  supported,  is 
preferable  to  one  that  is  easier,  since  it  is  the  tend- 
ency of  copyists  to  substitute  an  easy,  well-known 
and  smooth  reading  for  one  that   is  harsh,  unusual 
and  ungrammat  ical.     This  was  commonly  done  wit  h 
the  best  of  intentions,  the  scribe  supposing  he  was 
rendering  a  real  service  to  truth. 

(3)  A  shorter  is  preferable  to  a  longer  reaeling, 
since  here  again  the  common  tendency  of  scribes  is 
toward  additions  and  insertions  rather  than  omis- 


TextandMSS(NT) 
Text  of  the  OT 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


20.r>r> 


sions.  Hence  arose,  in  the  first  place,  the  marginal 
glosses  and  insertions  between  the  lines  which  later 
transcribers  incorporated  into  the  text.  Although 
this  rule  has  been  widely  accepted,  it  must  be  applied 
with  discrimination,  a  longer  reading  being  in  some 
cases  clearly  more  in  harmony  with  the  style  of  the 
original,  or"  the  shorter  having  arisen  from  a  case 
of  homoeoteleuton. 

(4)  A  reading  is  preferable,   other  things  being 
equal,  from  which  the  origin  of  all  alternative  read- 
ings can  most  clearly  be  derived.     This  principle 
is  lit  once  of  the  utmost  importance  and  at  the  same 
time   demands    the    most    careful    application.     It 
is   a   sharp   two-edged    sword,    dangerous   alike   to 
the  user  and  to  his  opponents. 

(5)  A  reading  is  preferable,  says  Scrivener,  'which 
best  suits  the  peculiar  style,  manner  and  habits  of 
thought   of   an   author,    it    being   the   tendency   of 
copyists  to  overlook  the  idiosyncrasies  of  the  writer. 
Vet  habit  or  the  love  of  critical  correction  may  some- 
times  lead   the   scribe   to   change   the   text   to   his 
author's  more  usual  style  as  well  as  to  depart  from 
it  through  inadvertence,  so  that  we  may  securely 
apply  the  rule  only  where  the  external  evidence 
is  not   unequally  balanced." 

((i)  A  reading  is  preferable  which  reflects  no 
doctrinal  bias,  whether  orthodox  on  the  one  side  or 
heretical  on  the  other.  This  principle,  is  so  obvious 
that  it  is  accepted  on  all  sides,  but  in  practice  wide 
divergence  arises,  owing  to  the  doctrinal  bias  of  the 
critic  himself. 

These  are  the  main  Canons  of  internal  evidence. 
On  the  side  of  external  evidence  may  be  summarized 
what  has  already  been  implied: 

(1)  A  more  ancient   reading  is  usually  one  that 
is  supported  by  the  most  ancient  MSS. 

(2)  A  reading  which  has  the  undoubted  support 
of  the  earliest  MSS,  VSS  and  patristic  writers  is 
unquest  ionably  original. 

(3)  A  disagreement    of  early  authorities  usually 
indicates  the  existence  of  corruption  prior  to  them  all. 

(4)  Mere  numerical  preponderance  of  witnesses  (to 
a  reading)  of  any  one  class,  locality  or  time,  is  of 
comparal  ive  insignificance. 

("))  Great  significance  must  be  granted  to  the 
testimony  of  witnesses  from  localities  or  times 
widely  apart,  and  it  can  only  be  satisfactorily  met. 
by  a  balancing  agreement  of  witnesses  also  from 
different  times  and  localities. 

These  rules,  though  they  are  all  excellent  and 
each  has  been  employed  by  different  critics  with 
good  results,  are  now  somewhat  displaced,  or  rather 
supplemented,  by  the  application  of  a  principle 
very  widely  used,  though  not  discovered,  by  Y\  est- 
cott  and  Hort,  known  as  the  principle  of  the 
genealogy  of  MSS.  The  inspection  of  a  very  broad 
range  of  "witnesses  to  the  IsT  text  has  led  to  their 
classification  into  groups  and  families  according 
to  their  prevailing  errors,  it  being  obvious  that  the 
greater  the  community  of  errors  the  closer  the 
relationship  of  witnesses.  Although  some  of  the 
terms  used  by  \YH,  as  well  as  their  content, 
have  given  rise  to  well-placed  criticism,  yet  their 
grouping  of  MSS  is  so  self-convincing  that  it  bids 
fair,  with  but  slight  modification,  to  hold,  as  it  has 
thus  far  done,  first  place  in  the  field.  Sir  Frederick 
G.  Kenyon  has  so  admirably  stated  the  method  that 
the  gist  of  his  account  will  be  given,  largely  using 
his  identical  words  (Handbook  to  the  Textual 
Criticism  of  the  NT,  2d  ed,  London,  1912).  As  in 
all  scientific  criticism,  four  steps  are  followed  by 
WII :  0)  The  individual  readings  and  the  authori- 
ties for  them  are  studied;  (b)  an  estimate  is  formed 
of  the  character  of  the  several  authorities;  (c)  an 
effort  is  made  to  group  these  authorities  as_  de- 
scendants of  a  common  ancestor,  and  (</)  the  indi- 
vidual readings  are  again  taken  up  and  the  first 


provisional  estimate  of  their  comparative!  proba- 
bility revised  in  the  light  of  the  knowledge  gained 
as  to  the  value  and  interrelation  of  the  several 
authorit  ies. 

Applying  these  methods,  four  groups  of  texts 
emerge  from  the  mass  of  early  witnesses:  (a)  The 
Antiochian  or  Syrian,  the  most,  popular  of  all  and 
at  the  base  of  the  (ireek  T R  and  the  English  AY; 
in  the  Gospels  the  great  uncials  A  and  C  support 
it  as  well  as  N,  S  and  *,  most  of  the  later  uncials 
and  almost  all  minuscules,  the  Pesh-Syr  version 
and  the  bulk  of  the  Church  Fathers  from  Chrysos- 
tom;  (h)  the  Neutral,  a  term  giving  rise  to  criticism 
on  all  sides  and  by  some  displaced  by  the  term 
Egyptian;  this  group  is  small  but  of  high  antiquity, 
including  XBLT/,A  and  C,  save  in  the  Gospels, 
the  Coptic  YSS  (esj).  the  Bohairic)  and  some  of 
the  minuscules,  notably  33  and  81;  (c)  the  Alex- 
andrian, closely  akin  to  the  Neutral  group,  not 
found  wholly  in  any  one  MS  but  traceable  in  such 
MSS  as  X  C  L  X,  33,  and  the  Bohairic  version,  when 
they  differ  from  the  other  members  headed  by  B; 
0/)"the  Western,  another  term  considered  ambigu- 
ous, since  it  includes  some  important  MSS  and 
Fathers  very  ancient  and  very  Eastern;  here  belong 
DD2  E-F2G'a  among  the  uncials,  28,  235,  3S3,  f>r>;>, 
til 4,  TOO,  and  876  among  the  minuscules,  the  Old 
Syr  and  Old  Lat  and  sometimes  the  Sahidic  YSS. 

'()f  these  groups  by  far  the  most  superior  is  the 
Neutral,  though  WII  have  made  it  so  exclusively 
to  coincide  with  C'od.  B  that  they  appear  at  times 
to  have  broken  one  of  the  great  commandments  of  a 
philologist,  as  quoted  by  Dr.  Nestle  from  a  German 
professor,  "Thou  shalt  worship  no  codices."  Now, 
the  only  serious  dispute  centers  on  the  apparent 
slight  which  this  system  may  have  put  upon  the 
so-called  Western  type  of  text  in  group  four.  The 
variants  of  this  family  are  extensive  and  important 
and  appear  due  to  an  extremely  free  handling  of  the 
text  at  some  early  date  when  scribes  felt  themselves 
at  liberty  to  vary  the  language  of  the  sacred  books 
and  even  to  insert  additional  passages  of  consider- 
able length. 

Although  this  type  of  text  is  of  very  early  origin 
and  though  prevalent  in  the  East  was  very  early 
carried  to  the  West,  and  being  widely  known  there 
has  been  called  Western,  yet ,  because  of  the  libert  ies 
above  referred  to,  its  critical  value  is  not  high,  save 
in  the  one  field  of  omissions.  In  Egypt,  however, 
and  esp.  Alexandria,  just  as  in  the  case  of  the  OT, 
the  text  of  the  NT  was  critically  considered  and 
conserved,  and  doubtless  the  family  called  Neutral, 
as  well  as  the  so-called  Alexandrian,  springs  up  here 
and  through  close  association  with  Caesarea  becomes 
prevalent  in  Pal  and  is  destined  to  prevail  every- 
where. The  \YII  contention  that  the  Antiochian 
text  arose  as  a  formal  attempt  at  repeated  revision 
of  the  original  text  in  Antioch  is  not  so  convincing, 
but  for  want  of  a  better  theory  still  holds  its  place. 
Their  objections,  however,  to  its  characteristic 
readings  are  well  taken  and  everywhere  accepted, 
even  von  Soden  practically  agreeing  here,  though 
naming  it  the  koint  text.  It  is  also  interesting  to 
find  that  von  Soden's  Hesychian  text  so  closely 
parallels  the  Neutral-Alexandrian  above,  and  his 
Jerusalem  family  the  Western.  And  thus  we  arrive 
at  the  present  consensus  of  opinion  as  to  the  genea- 
logical source  of  the  text  of  the  NT. 

IV.  History  of  the  Process.— Abundant  evi- 
dence exists  and  is  constantly  growing  to  show  that 
critical  opinion  and  methods  were  known  at  least  from 
the  very  days  of  the  formation  of  the  NT  Canon, 
but  in  such  "a  sketch  as  the  present  the  history  can 
only  be  traced  in  modern  times.  The  era  of  print  ing 
necessarily  marks  a  new  epoch  here.  Among  avail- 
able MSS  choice  must  be  made  and  a  standard  set, 
and  in  view  of  the  material  at  hand  it  is  remarkable 


2957 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Text  and  MSS  (NT) 
Text  of  the  OT 


how  ably  tho  work  was  done.  It  began  in  Spain 
under  Cardinal  Ximenes  of  Toledo,  who  printed  at 
Alcala  (Complutum)  in  1514  the  NT  volume  of  his 
great  Polyglot,  though  it  was  not  actually  issued 
until  1522.  Meanwhile  the  great  Erasmus,  under 
patronage  of  Froben  the  printer  of  Basel,  had  been 
preparing  a  Or  NT,  and  it  was  published  early  in 
1516  in  a  single  volume  and  at  low  cost,  and  had 
reached  itn  3d  ed  by  1522.  His  4th  ed  in  1537 
contains  Erasmus'  definitive  text,  and,  besides 
using  Cardinal  Ximenes',  had  the  advantage  of 
minuscule  MSS  already  named.  The  next  impor- 
tant step  was  taken  by  Robert  Estienne  (Stephanns), 
whose  3d  ed,  "Regia,"  a  folio  published  in  Paris  in 
1550,  was  a  distinct  advance,  and,  though  based 
directly  upon  the  work  of  Ximenes  and  Erasmus, 
had  marginal  readings  from  15  new  MSS,  one  of 
which  was  Cod.  Bezae  (I)).  The  learned  Theodore 
Beza  himself  worked  with  Stephanus'  son  Henri, 
and  brought  out  no  less  than  nine  editions  of  the 
NT,  but  no  great  critical  advance  was  math;  in  them. 
The  same  may  be  said  of  the  seven  Elzevir  editions 
brought  out  at  Leyden  and  Amsterdam  between 
1024  and  1078,  the  second,  that  of  1033,  in  the 
preface  of  which  occurs  the  phrase,  "Text urn  ergo 
habes  nunc  ab  omnibus  receptum,"  becoming  the 
continental  standard,  as  the  1550  edition  of  Stepha- 
nus has  for  England.  Thus  we  arrive  at  the  T  R, 
and  the  period  of  preparation  is  closed. 

The  second  period,  or  that  of  discovery  and 
research,  was  ushered  in  by  the  great  London  Poly- 
glot of  1057,  edited  by  Brian  Walton  (later  Bishop 
of  Chester)  with  collations  by  Archbishop  Ussher 
of  15  fresh  MSS,  including  Cod.  A  and  Cod.  59. 
But  Dr.  John  Mill  of  Oxford  was  the  Erasmus  of 
this  period,  and  in  1707  after  30  years  of  labor 
brought  out  the  Gr  TR  with  fresh  collations  of  78 
MSS,  many  VSS  and  quotations  from  the  early 
Fathers.  His  MSS  included  A  B  D  E  K,  28,  33, 
59,  09,  71,  the  Peshito,  Old  Lat  and  Vulg,  and  his 
Prolegomena  set  a  new  standard  for  textual  criti- 
cism. This  apparatus  was  rightly  appreciated  by 
Richard  Bent  ley  of  Cambridge  and  a  revised  text 
of  the  Gr  and  of  the  Vulg  NT  was  projected  along 
lines  which  have  prevailed  to  this  day.  The  work 
and  wide  correspondence  of  Bent  ley  had  stirred 
up  continental  scholars,  and  J.  A.  Bengel  published 
in  1734  at  Tubingen  a  Gr  NT  with  the  first  sug- 
gestion as  to  genealogical  classification  of  MSS. 
J.  J.  Wetstein  of  Basel  and  Amsterdam,  though  a 
very  great  collector  of  data  and  the  author  of  the 
system  of  MS  notation  which  has  continued  ever 
since,  made  little  critical  advance.  J.  S.  Sender, 
taking  Wet  stein's  material,  began  rightly  to  inter- 
pret it,  and  his  pupil  J.  J.  Griesbach  carried  the 
work  still  farther,  clearly  distinguishing  for  the 
first  time  a  Western,  an  Alexandrian  and  a  Constan- 
tinopolitan  recension. 

With  Carl  Lachmann  began  the  last  epoch  in 
NT  criticism  which  has  succeeded  in  going  behind 
the  TR  and  establishing  an  authentic  text  based  on 
the  most  ancient  sources.  He  applied  the  critical 
methods  with  which  he  was  familiar  in  editing  the 
classics,  and  with  the  help  of  P.  Buttmann  produced 
an  edition  in  1842-50  which  led  the  way  directly 
toward  the  goal;  but  they  were  limited  in  ma- 
terials and  Tischendorf  soon  furnished  these. 
Constantin  Tischendorf,  both  as  collector  and  editor, 
is  the  foremost  man  thus  far  in  the  field.  His 
8th  ed,  1872,  of  the  Gr  NT,  together  with  his  Pro- 
legomena, completed  and  published,  1884-1894,  by 
C.  R.  Gregory,  set  a  new  standard.  Dr.  Gregory's 
German  edition  of  the  Prolegomena,  1900-1909, 
supplemented  by  his  Die  griechischen  Handschriften 
des  NT,  1908,  marks  the  further  advance  of  the 
master  through  his  master  pupil.  Meanwhile 
S.  P.  Tregelles  was  doing  almost  as  prodigious  ana 


valuable  a  work  in  England,  and  was  thus  preparing 
for  the  final  advances  at  Cambridge.  F.  II.  A. 
Scrivener  also  ranks  high  and  did  extremely  valu- 
able, though  somewhat  conservative,  work  in  the 
same  direction.  In  1881  ''the  greatest  edition  ever 
published,"  according  to  Professor  Souter,  was 
brought  out  in  England  coincident  with  the  RV  of 
the  Eng.  NT.  This,  together  with  the  introduc- 
tion, which  the  same  writer  characterizes  as  "an 
achievement  never  surpassed  in  the  scholarship  of 
any  country,"  was  tho  joint  product  of  B.  F. 
West  cot  t  and  F.  J.  A.  Hort,  friends  and  co-workers 
for  many  years  in  the  ('Diversity  of  Cambridge. 
Thus  with  the  end  of  the  19th  cent,  the  history  of 
the  process  may  be  said  to  close,  though  both 
process  and  progress  still  advance  with  ever- 
increasing  triumph. 

Von  Soden's  ed  of  the  NT  appeared  during  tho 
summer  of  1913  and  is  of  first  importance.  It 
differs  from  all  others  in  tho  extreme  weight  laid  on 
Tatian's  Diatessaron  as  the  source  of  the  bulk  of  the 
errors  in  the  Gospels.  This  theory  is  not  likely  to 
command  the  assent  of  scholars  and  the  text  (which 
does  not  differ  greatly  from  Tischendorf 's)  is  con- 
sequently of  doubtful  value.  Nevertheless,  for 
fulness  of  material,  clearness  of  arrangement,  and 
beauty  of  printing,  von  Soden's  ed  must  inevitably 
supersede  all  others,  even  where  the  text  is  dissented 
from.  Dr.  Gregory  promises  a  new  ed  at  some  day 
not  too  far  in  the  future  which,  in  turn,  will  proba- 
bly supersede  von  Soden's. 

LITERATURE. — C.  R.  Gregory,  Prolegomena  to  Tisrhcn- 
dorf's  NT,  Leipzig,  1884-94,  Textkritik  des  NT,  Leipzig. 
1900-1909,  Die  griechischen  Handschriften  des  NT 
Leipzig,  1908,  Einleitung  in  dan  NT,  Leipzig,  1909, 
Vorschlage  fur  eine  kritische  Ausi/abe  des  griechixcln-n  NT 
Leipzig,  1911;  F.  G.  Kenyon,  Palaeography  of  Gr  Papyri 
Oxford,  1899,  Handbook  to  the  Textual  Criticism  of  the 
NT,  London2,  1912;  K.  Lake,  The  Text  of  the  NT,  4th 
eel,  London,  1910;  G.  Milligan,  Selections  from  the  Gr 
Papyri,  Cambridge,  1910,  The,  NT  Documents,  1913;  Eh. 
Nestle,  Einfuhrung  in  das  NT,  Gottingen3,  1909;  F.  H. 
A.  Scrivener,  Plain  Introduction  to  the  Criticism  of  the 
NT,  4th  ed,  London,  1894;  Souter,  Text  and  Canon  of 
the  NT,  1913;  E.  M .  Thompson.  Handbook  of  Gr  and  Lat 
Palaeography,  2d  ed,  London,  1894;  H.  von  Soden.  Die 
Schriflen  rfp.s-  NT,  I.  Teil,  Untersuelmngen,  Berlin,  1902- 
10;  II.  Teil,  1913;  B.  K.  Westcot t,  and  F.  J.  A.  Hort, 
The  NT  in  (Ir  with  Introduction,  Cambridge  and  London, 
1S9G;  Th.  Zahii,  Intro  to  the  NT,  ET,  Edinburgh,  1910. 

CHARLES  FKKMONT  SITTEHLY 
TEXT  OF  THE  OLD  TESTAMENT: 

I.     EARLIEST  FORM   OF  WRITINT,   IN   ISRAEL 

1.  Invention  of  Alphabet 

2.  The  Cuneiform 

3.  References  to  Writing  in  the  OT 

4.  Inscriptions  after  Settlement  in  Canaan 

5.  Orthography  of  the  Period 
II.     THE.  Two   HEBREW   Snui-Ts 

1.  The  Old  Hebrew  Alphabet 

2.  Aramaean  Alphabets 

8.   The  New  Hebrew  Script 

4.  New  Hebrew  Inscriptions 

5.  Summary 

III.  THE   CHANGE   OF  SCRIPT 

1.  Various  Theories 

2.  The  Change  in  the  Law 

3.  In  the  Other  Books 

4.  Evidence  of  the  LXX 

").    Kvidence  of  the  Text  Itself 
(i.   Conclusion 

IV.  PRESERVATION   OF  THE   TEXT 

1.  Internal  Conditions 

2.  External  Circumstances 

3.  The  LXX  Version 

V.      THE   TEXT   IN   THE    IST   CENTURY   AD 

1.  Word  Separation 

2.  Other  Breaks  in  the  Text 

3.  Final  Forms  of  Letters 

4.  Their  Origin 

5.  Conclusion 

0.  The  Vowel-Letters 

7.  Anomalous  Forms 

8.  The  Dotted  Words 

9.  Their  Antiquity 

10.  The  Invert,  d  HM//S 

11.  Large  and  Small  Letters 

12.  Suspended  Letters  and  Divided  waw 

13.  Abbreviations 

14.  Conclusion 


Text  of  the  OT 


Till-:  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2958 


VI.         Al.TEHATION     <  >F     P  It  I  N  e  1  1>  A  L     DoGTMKNTS 

i.  Jehovah  and  Baal 

'2  Euphemistic  Expressions 

;{.  TikkiiH  »dpherim 
VII.      SCRIBAL    Billions    IN    THE   TEXT 

1.  Misunderstanding 

2.  Errors  of  the  Eye 
;{.  Errors  of  the  Ear 

4.  Errors  of  Memory 

5.  Errors  of  Carelessness  and  Ignorance 
VIII        HISTORY    OF   THE   TEXT 

1.  Changes  Made  in  Reading 

2.  Preservation  of  Text 
15.    Division  into  Verses 

4.  Sections  of  the  Law 

5.  Sections  of  the  Prophets 
(i.    Poetical  Passages 

7.    Division  into  Books 
IX.      VOCALIZATION    OF- THE   TEXT 
1      Antiquity  of  the  Points 
2.    Probable  Date  of  Invention 
:{.    Various  Systems  and   Recensions 
X.     THE   PALESTINIAN   SYSTEM 

1 .  The  Consonants 

2.  The  Vowels 
:{.    The  Accents 

4.   Anomalous  Pointings 
XI.     THE   MASOK.MI 

L.    Meaning  of  the  Term 
2.   The  lyre  and  Ivthibh 
:<.    Other  Features 
X1L      MSS    AND   PRINTED   TEXTS 

1.  Manuscripts 

2.  Early  Printed  Texts 
X.    Later  Editions 

4.   Chapters  and  Verses 

LlTEKATUHE 

/.  Earliest  Form  of  Writing  in  /srae/.— The  art 
of  writing  is  not  referred  to  in  the  Book  of  den, 
even  where  we  might  expect  a  reference  to  it,  eg. 
in  Gen  23,  nor  anywhere  in  the  OT  before  the 
time  of  Moses  (cf,  however,  Gen  38  18.25;  41  44, 
which  speak  of  "sealing"  devices,  and  see  .SEAL; 
WRITING). 

\bout  the  year  1500  BC  alphabetic  writing  was 

practised    by    the    Phoenicians,    but    in    Pal     the 

syllabic  Bab  cuneiform  was  in  use  (see 

1.  Invention  ALPHABET).     The  Israelites  probably 
of  Alphabet   did  not  employ  any  form  of  writing  in 

their  nomadic,  state,  and  when  they 
entered  Canaan  the  only  script  they  seem  ever  to 
have  used  was  the  Phoen.  This  is  not  disproved  by 
the  discovery  there  of  two  cuneiform  contracts  of 
the  7th  cent.,  as  these  probably  belonged  to  stran- 
gers. There  is  only  one  alphabet  in  the  world,  which 
has  taken  many  forms  to  suit  the  languages  for 
which  it  was  employed.  This  original  alphabet  was 
the,  invention  of  the  Semites,  for  it  has  letters 
peculiar  to  the  Semitic  languages,  and  probably  ot 
the  Phoenicians  (so  Lucan,  Pharsalia  in. 220;  cf 
Herod,  v.58),  who  evolved  it  from  the  Egyp  hiero- 
glyphics. 

'Of  the  lit.  of  Canaan  before  the  Israelites  entered 

it   the  remains   consist   of  a  number  of  cuneiform 

tablets  found   since   1892  at    Lachish, 

2.  The  Ge/er,    Taanach    and    Megiddo,    but 
Cuneiform     esp.  of  the  famous  Am  Tab,  discovered 

in  Egypt  in  1887.  Although  this  non- 
alphabetic  script  was  in  use  in  Canaan  when  the 
Israelites  entered  it,  they  do  not  seem  to  have 
adopted  it. 

The  earliest  reference  to  writing  m  the  C. 
Ex  17  14      The  next  is  Ex  24  7,  mentioning  the 
Book    of    the    Covenant    (Ex  20-23). 

3.  Refer-       The  Book  of  the  Wars  of  .Teh  is  named 
ences  to         in  Xu  21  14.     Other  early  references 
Writing  hi      are  Jgs  5  14m;    8  14m.     By  the  time 
the  OT  of  the  monarchy  the  king  and  nobles 

could  write  (2  S  11  14;  8  17),  but 
not  the  common  people,  until  the  time  of  Amos 
and  Hosea,  when  writing  seems  to  have  been 
common. 

The  Phoen  script  prevailed  in  Pal  after  the  con- 
quest as  well  as  in  the  countries  bordering  on  it 
This  is  shown  by  the  inscriptions  which  have  beer 
discovered.  The  chief  of  these  are:  the  Baa 


Lebanon  inscription  found  in  Cyprus  (beginning  of 

the  9th  cent.) ;  the  MS  of  about  the  year  896  of  the 

ordinary  chronology;    a  Heb   agricul- 

4.  Inscrip-     tviral  calendar  of  the  8th  cent.;  fifteen 
tions  after      lion-weights    from    Nineveh   of    about 
Settlement    the  year  700;   the  Siloam  Inscription 
in  Canaan      of  the  time  of  IIe/,ekiah;  about  a  score 

of  seals;  and,  in  1911,  a  large  number 
of  ostraca  of  the  time  of  Ahab. 

In    this    oldest    writing    the    vowels    arc    rarely 
expressed,  not  even  final  vowels  being   indicated. 

The  only  mark  besides  the  letters  is  a 

5.  Orthog-     point    separating    the    words.     There 
raphy  of  the  are  no  special  forms  for  final  letters. 
Period  Words  are  often  divided  at  the  ends 

of  lines.  The  writing  is  from  right 
to  left.  The  characters  of  the  Siloam  Inscription 
and  the  ostraca  show  some  attempt  at  elegant 
writing. 

//.    The     Two    Hebrew    Scripts. —  1  wo    distinct 
scripts  were  used  by  the  Hebrews,  an  earlier  and  a 

later.     The    Old    Heb    alphabet    c.on- 

1.  The  tained  22  letters,  all  consonants.     The 
Old  Hebrew  order  of  these  letters  is  known  from 
Alphabet       that  of  the  Gr, taken  in  order  of  tneir 

numerical  values,  and  later  by  the 
alphabetic  pss,  etc,  and  by  the  figure  called  'at-bash 
(see  SHKSHACH).  In  the  acrostic  passages,  how- 
ever, the  order  is  not  always  the  same;  this  may 
be  due  to  corruption  of  the  text.  In  the  alpha- 
bet, letters  standing  together  bear  similar  names. 
These  are  ancient,  being  the  same  in  Gr  as  m  N-ni. 
They  were  probably  given  from  some  fancied 
resemblance  which  the  Phoenicians  saw  in  the  origi- 
nal Egvp  sign  to  some  object 

The  development  of   the  Phoen   alphabet  called 
Aram    begins  about  the  7th  rent.  BC.     It  is  found 

inscribed  as  dockets  on  the  cuneiform 

2.  Ara-  day  tablets  of  Nineveh,  as  the  Phoen 
maean  letters    were    upon    the    lion-weights; 
Alphabets      on   coins  of  the   Pers  satraps  to   the 

time  of  Alexander;  on  Egyp  inscrip- 
tions and  papyri;  and  on  the  Palmyrene  inscrip- 
tions The  features  of  this  script  are  the  following: 
The  loops  of  the  letters  bclh,  daleth,  teth,  fr«/>/i  and 
rcxfi  which  are  closed  in  the  Phoen  and  Old  Heb, 
are  open,  the  bars  of  the  letters  he  waw,zaym, 
firth  and  taw  are  lost,  and  the  tails  of  kaph,  lamedh, 
in  cm  pc  and  yudhe,  which  are  vertical  in  the  old 
\i-un  begin  in  the  Egyp  Aram,  to  curve  toward 
the  left;  words  are  divided,  except  m  Palmyrene, 
by  a  space  instead  of  a  point;  vowel-letters  are 
freely  used;  arid  the  use  of  ligatures  involves  a  dis- 
tinction of  initial,  medial  and  final  forms.  .There 
are  of  course  no  vowel-marks. 

After  the  Jews  returned  from  the  exile,  the  Aram. 

language   was    the    lingua  franca    of    the    Seleucid 

empire,  displacing  Assyr,  Old  Heb  and 

3  The  Phoen.     The   Phoen   script    also   had 
New  He-       given  place  to  the  Aram,  in  Mesopo- 
brew  Script  tamia,  Syria  and  Egypt,     In  Syria  it 

divided  into  two  branches,  a  northern 
which  grew  into  Syriac,  and  a  southern,  or  Jew- 
ish, from  which  the  New  Heb  character  was  pro- 
duced. 

What  is  believed  to  be  the  oldest  inscription  in 
the  modern   Ileb  character   is   that   in  a  cave  at 

Mr«/c    (il-\linir   near  Heshbon,    which 

4  New          was  used  as  a  place  of  retreat  in  the 
Hebrew  In-  year  176  BC  (Ant,  XII,  iv,  11;  CIH, 
scriptions       no.  1).     Others    are:    four   boundary 

stones  found  at  Gezer;  the  inscriptions 
over  the  "Tomb  of  St.  James,"  really  of  the  Bern 
Hc/ir  (1  Ch  24  15;  Neh  10  20);  that  of  Kefr 
Birim,  assigned  to  the  year  300  AD  (CIH,  no.  17), 
in  which  the  transition  to  the  New  Heb  script  may 
be  said  to  be  accomplished;  and  others  have  been 


2959 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAED1 A     Text  of  the  OT 


found  all  over  the  Rom  empire  and  beyond.     See 
ARCHAEOLOGY. 

The  inscriptions  show  that  the  familiar  Heb  char- 
acter is  a  branch  of  the  Aramaic.     In  the  3d  cent. 
BC  the  latter  script   was   in   general 
6.  Summary  use   in   those  countries  when;  Assyr- 

Bab,  Old  Heb  and  Phoen  had  been 
used  before.  The  Jews,  however,  continued  to 
employ  the  Old  Pleb  for  religious  purposes  esp., 
and  the  Samaritans  still  retain  a  form  of  it  in 
their  Bible  (the  Pent). 

///.  The  Change  of  Script. — It  is  now  almost 
universally  agreed  that  the  script  in  which  the 
OT  was  written  was  at  some  time  changed  from 
the  Phoenician  to  the  Aramaic.  But  in  the 
past  many  opinions  have  been  held  on  the  * 
subject. 

Rabbi  Eleazar  of  Modin  (d.  135  AD),  from 
the  mention  of  the  hooks  ((raws.)  in  Ex  27   10 

and   from   Est   8    9,    denied    any     i.  i 

1.  Various     change    at    all.       Rabbi     Jeliuda 
Theories         (d.    c    210)    maintained   that    the 

Law  was  given  in  the  New  Heb, 
which  was  later  changed  to  the  Old  as  a  punish- 
ment, and  then  back  to  the  New,  on  the  people 
repenting  in  the  time  of  Ezra.     Texts  bearing   on 
the  matter  are  2  K  6  7;    18  26;    Isa   8    1,    from 
which  various  deductions  have  been  drawn.     There 
may  have  been  two  scripts  in  use  at  the  same  time, 
as  in  P'gypt  (Herod,  ii.36). 

In  regard  to  the  change  in  the  Law,  the  oldest 

authority,  Eleazar  ben  Jacob  (latter  part  of  the  1st 

cent.   AD),   declared   that   a   Prophet 

2.  Change     at  the  time  of  the  Return  commanded 
in  the  Law    to   write   the   Torah   in   the   new   or 

square  character.  Next  Rabbi  Jose  (a 
century  later)  states  (after  Ezr  4  7)  that  Ezra  intro- 
duced a  new  script  and  language.  But  the  locus 
classicus  is  a  passage  in  the  Talm  (Sanhedhrln  216)  : 
"Originally  the  Law  was  given  to  Israel  in  the  Heb 
character  and  in  the  Holy  Tongue;  it  was  given 
again  to  them  in  the  days  of  Ezra  in  the  Assyr 
characters  and  in  the  Aram,  tongue.  Israel  chose 
for  herself  the  Assyr  character  and  the  Holy  Tongue, 
and  left  the  Heb  character  and  the  Aram,  tongue  to 
the  hcdhyototh."  Here  Heb  =  Old  Hebrew;  Assyr  = 
the  new  square  character,  and  hcdhijototh  is  the  Gr 
ididtai=the  Heb  *am  hu-drcq,  the  illiterate  multi- 
tude. From  the  2d  cent,  on  (but  not  before),  the 
Talmudic  tradition  is  unanimous  in  ascribing  the 
change  of  script  in  the  Law  to  Ezra.  The  testi- 
mony of  Jos  points  to  the  Law  at  least  being  in  the 
square  character  in  his  day  (Ant,  XII,  ii,  1,  4). 
The  Sam  Pent  was  almost  certain!}'  drawn  up  in  the 
lime  of  Nehemiah  (cf  13  2<S;  also  Ant,  XI,  vii,  2), 
and  points  to  the  Old  Heb  being  then  in  use.  So 
Rabbi  Ilasda  (d.  309)  refers  the  word  hcdhijotolh 
above  to  the  Samaritans.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
Sam  Pent  may  have  been  the  original  Law,  common 
to  both  Israel  and  Judah.  In  any  case  it  is  written 
in  a  form  of  the  Old  Heb  character. 

In  regard  to  the  other  books,  the  old  script  was 

used   after  Ezra's  time.     Est  8  9   and   Dnl  6  <S  ff 

must  refer  to  the  unfamiliar  Old  Heb. 

3.  Other        So  Mt  5  18  implies  the  New,  but  only 
Books  in  the  Law. 

The  Gr  tr  known  as  the  LXX  was 

made  in  Alexandria,  and  is  hardly  evidence  for  Pal. 

The  Law  was  probably  tr'1  under  Ptolemy  II  (284- 

247  BC),  and  the  other  books  by  the 

4.  Evidence  end  of  the  2d  cent.   BC   (cf  Ecclus, 
of  LXX  Prologue) .     The  variations  of  the  LXX 

from  the  MT  point  to  an  early  form  of 
the  square  character  as  being  in  use;  but  the  Jews 
of  Egypt  had  used  Aram,  for  some  centuries  before 
that. 

The  variations  between  parallel  passages  in  the 


MT  itself,  such  as  Josh  21  and  1  Ch  6;  2  S  23  and 
1  Ch  11,  etc,  show  that  the  letters  most  frequently 
confused  are  d  and  /•,  which  are  similar  in  both 
the  Old  and  New  Heb;  /;  and  <l,  which  are  more 
alike  in  the  Old;  w  and  //  and  several  others,  which 
are  more  alike  in  the  New.  Such  errors  evidently 


mi 


Frump- 


ni 


New  Hebrew  Inscriptions. 


still  in  the  old  rhara 
limit  of  Oozer—  begi 


K-ace  lie 

h     .1 
Hai 
unt 

id  al 
Bin 
th 

thi 

.     .    .l.ilKU 

lintfl:  in 

f  Hez 

lj-    IllfS 

,  • 
r.      1 
th, 

.1, 

i 

Sf|,h     .      .      . 

hiM-ri|ition 
ici-s    of    Isr 

i.l, 
of  K 
el. 

st-ph 
i-fr  Bir 
.losfh 

ind 
the 

arose  from  the   use  of   the  square  character,  and 

they  arose  subsequent  to  the   LXX,  for  they  are 

not,  except  rarely,  found   in   it.     The 

5.  Evidence  square   character   is,   then,   later  than 
of  the  Text    the  LXX. 

Itself  The  square  character  was  ascribed 

to  Ezra  as  the  last  person  who  could 

have  made  so  great  a  change,  the  text    after  his 

time  being  considered  sacred.     This  is  disproved 

by  the  fact  of  the  coins  of  the  Macca- 

6.  Conclu-     bees  and  of  Bar  Cochba  being  in  the 
sion  old    character.      The    Talm     permits 

Jews  resident  outside  Pal  to  possess 
copies  of  the  Law  in  Coptic,  Median,  Heb,  etc. 
Here  Heb  can  only  mean  the  Old  Heb  script. 

IV.  Preservation    of    the     Text. — Judaism    has 

always  been  a  book  religion:   it  stands  or  falls  with 

the  OT,  esp.  with  the  Pent.     Although 

1.  Internal    no  MS  of  the  Heb  OT  is  older  than  the 
Conditions     10th  cent.   AD,    save;   for   one  minute 

papyrus,  we  know,  from  citations,  tr3, 
etc,  that  the  consonantal  text  of  the  OT  was  in 
the  1st  cent.  AD  practically  what  it  is  today.  The 
Jews  transliterated  as  well  as  trd  their  Bible.  All 
the  most  important  tr3 — the  LXX,  Aquila,  Theodo- 
tion,  Symmachus — were  made  by  Jews  and  aimed 
at  a  more  literal  rendering  of  the  Heb — that  of 
Aquila  being  hardly  Gr.  The  Syr  (Peshitta)  seems 
to  be  also  by  Jews  or  Jewish  Christians.  Great 
care  was  taken  of  the  text  itself,  and  the  slightest 
variant  readings  of  MSS  were  noted.  One  MS 
belonging  to  Rabbi  Meir  (2d  cent.)  is  said  to  have 
omitted  the  references  to  "Admali  and  Zeboiim"  in 
Dt  29  23  and  to  Bethlehem  in  Gen  48  7,  and  to 
have  had  other  lesser  variations,  some  of  which 
were  found  also  in  the  MS  which,  among  other  treas- 
ures, decked  the  triumph  of  Vespasian  (BJ ',  VII, 
v,  7)._ 

Religious  persecution  makes  for  the  purity  of  the 

Scriptures  by  reducing  the  number  of  copies  and 

increasing  the  care  bestowed  on  those 

2.  External   saved.     The  chief  moments  in  which 
Circum-          the  existence  of  the  Jewish  Scriptures 
stances  was  threatened  were  the  destruction 

of  Jerus  and  the  Temple  under  Nebu- 
chadnezzar in  587  BC,  in  which  the  Book  of  Jashar 
and  that  of  the  Wars  of  the  Lord  may  have  been 
lost ;  the  persecution  under  Antiochus  Epiphanes, 
during  which  the  possession  of  the  sacred  books 
was  a  capital  off ence  (1  Mace  1  56.57;  Ant,  XII,  v), 
in  which  the  sources  used  by  the  Chronicler  may 
have  perished;  and  the  capture  of  Jerus  by  Titus 


Text:!  the  OT      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


—  ^    -  .->  ,J     •     .> 

*     "  .  TV  I'--. I        LlS      i--      —  O     O     — 

--  -    :   :'   ---.  •      .Y    :      ::  a:   r'r.e 

------        e:~-  •'• 

3         XY:.  21  M  .  40  •> 

3.    Fhs  _XX  LXX  IT  -  .          _  .  .  -      .     :-  --   , 

-\--t-  .   '•.:'.  '.  r.:.,..  ~   r::.  :   7  cVerv  . 

-/•--"          XX.      '    '    '•'  '-"-  " 

.--.".  -    :    . 


V.    The   Text  :r.  t'-,e  1st  Century  AD.—  .      . 

--•  -  -  -  -       -  -  xx  -i : ;  •-•'  - '"'"'-  -  - 

Y--     .  -,      -  .  .   .r  :r     -'  -      -  Y   -  -   Y      - 

- 

-  4  ;  - 

~---         P  *--*""        '"3*^"'"         ~ 

-  ~" 

f  "2 ' '--     14   - 
;  -"  ??1.:.1:          s       v:V;Y 

,  - '-'-     -      77Y_1  !       C. 

-7  '  -  ~  ~  ^      Y.     >  YT.  ^ 

:  -  '.'    -          -          \        --    " 

29  --     -  •         -  -  27   :         2  S  19  20:     I*a 

2,  O±^:         -  ---  '   =•   "  -  -^  -'•    -        '-'  -- 

•Jlr    7rr.  ...  .  -yr-i^^"- 

'.        -  114  - 

-      '''  114        -     — _.- 

•  i-     -      e  M-s  -  -     '  -:          4:  9.  ineu  ,.,  ,.::  ..  .-_  Ti;  _    -  :.- 

.      ;  1  A^:;:-_T7  .    x.  9  : 

-•          _ 

•  -- 
"  "v  „"   '  -    -Y_  :•   ,  .  . 

.      -  .          "        '  1    -  : 


,     — .  .  •  •-  •--_"-'""  "  -  ":   "s  . 

i.    meil  "_-"-'..  nun* 

:-":-         1XX   ?:;   1C 

_  _    — .      .•    _•      .....__- 

""----•  •          .  .  _       . 

_...-":        -      -  --^    ''•'    .'-    '          -  -^_  '   -        -  '  J^- ~ 

-  -    .  --        -     -        -    1    1:    20  -r        P=  16  *irr^  -  -also. 

•  -     -  -    •;     •    .       23    U  "-     -    5    "  .nH  <;mil1        •-"-  L-       ' 

•"  -  -  1"  "  "  •  '  '     "•  "          ana  - — ~         '  :--  -  •- '        "   -        '- 

1  12:  Z       11  II:  z.      --  3   ..     r:  Letters  D-  6  --  •    Other  plac*s    -•     .  -  32  -io; 

-    ^     --  --^-     --  --  £i347.:4        Le-v  11  3O:      13  i-i;      Isa 

;-  B  u;:.  -f=    7.:^-.:!    si~^-   31    large 

-:v-      Esi.-plrs  of  th-r'Iat-rr  wiU   te 
-.  2  ~     23  -     L-v  1   l;  J.^o  7  5.e:c.     TL^ 
21-.  expUziA-J      -   -  -':  fincifuL 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HJhI.E  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      T*x: -,' ±»  OT 


Th'-r-  -a-  -four  l<-:v-r=  ^pend^i  aV,ve  v  20    1:    F_7>   8   17:  -     1    '     •     V    '    1    '         7       2    - 

MT.     Th-y  will  -•  fo^d  in  Js-   IS   i    :    J.,o  3%   l"  .    r./o  i  i  ."    T'  ;    7  .  „       ;"     '    ;  '-  '    f       *o          • 

p-  £0  j  4     i  .'I  f  -         i-.  .  J".  *  I  <  _'.':     :    -  4  ,          •    32  ... 

12.  SMS-         '-*:-  _        3  _'v:  P-  106  _' '.     T:.'  .:.,-- 
pended           ?hf\/i-"7                                          .":"^.V'"""            Tlkkun      -/, 

Leners  and    in  x/^5  l  V  r^-  In       »oph*rim        (-_.-  -  .-    • 

DividedccauJTwo.pe.-r.-aps'  :,.;  -- 

>J"^'  ••  --'.'^  -'•'  '••',''"=   'ii-~/>?~~'       ".'"..'  ='-  '- ,-~       <-,-'  "  -  3  "  ;  .'  •  T-;.   7  '-'i      y  -.-/-'---  .  -^--"-\  '--.-•' 

13.  Abbre-     =££cjjj*  -^.r^.i^  12  :_'"•  11  ; 
\iation5 

na:^-   "=L'XX  30  7.      TLou   :.i----        cf  5 

5  .  and  The  ^:-:'.  of  ::.- Heb=    OJeh."    Ln  J.-    1  -  -  --...:. 

Heb  •  hoa>e  of  Jn  -  '/- 

zr-ea:'.  r.  18   ' :   24    "  ';  1   _  ; : 

For^w^ong0!  '   _    -    10"':  - :  ~  24       '  -   ~   -  -  35  '. 

-    -  :•?  Ezr  2  " 

p;-'9Q  "v  _      VII.    Serial   Error,    in    the    Tex*.    - 

1  ^    13    '-'.'  ': 

-""..„..-- 

14.  C:n:!u-  :  :.::-.--     r-  .   -  -. 

_-•  i._f-..i  _  -_-££-—._-_- 

--  svari-g 

V7.   Alteration    of    Original    Documents. — For       2.  Err'-s  --'  -  -  =14 

1.  Jehovah    -:----  .  _ 

"--;;-  '-  . '     '     _    .    --          "   '- 

wlfr^Vi-s  V:::     :    :       '    - 

1     '  i     V  .  -  -  -     -    "    -  4  . "  - :    1  » 

41   5^"-£7  ITS  2-: 

0-ly  44:  -       .  -  14  -  ::b  53:    40  14-1S  T .-.--  70;  --••""  ':  -   K  K     ~-    '  '-     40  : 

50  "7  wi:h  Ex  20  2.     L .--.•-..-.  I  --  90-150  r  -  -- 


.:-  :.-..:..:^  in  10=  144  '--  ^  22~-  IS 

-     2  K  22  19    •  _-..    2  Cb  34  27.     A    :::-     - 

::  : 


-      -- 


.  - 

--  £  -  s  r  " 

::    H   -  2  16  or  >         3    r  ----  --• 

-     :-r  3  24:    H-       ^  -  r  "-".""  -  .  .  :  K"l; 

9  '     •    "•    -        L:        -     -       2  S  2-4     M- 

_2  S  4  4_  Elf         -   -  5  I-.  11  L: 

-    -         :        j'a'ch's  .   ."9  :;    .  :  :       -  .  -  -  ::  ",  --  " 

.     1  Ch  8  34  ,  I       i  1  Cb  14  7:    d  3  - 

The  LXX  foil.:     =  tt      :      :;-----  s  feii-      -(^~;~ 

' 


.  -          ,  -- 

'  ' 


. 


,_. 
21  '7.-   ^  ; 

--     -  "-    '"or"  f  :.  5.  Zrrrrs  ::   -  -    ;   - 

21  10.   LXX  20  lj:    Job  1  5:    2   '   •  Carrless- 

2.  Eurr.e-         :.  -  :~  -':-_-  T.  -:r  :  "1  :  -.       .--  -r;s  ani  --  ?  S  "3  7. 

niistic'Es-  2227.     c-  I^ioranc*  ;   - 

?rrs;::-s        -  -      .:        -    - 

::--:--i         -      2  -   12   14  .     .-.-     -  -          -  -  "       -- 

C:    iMr-er.   2  S  7  l3.14";"24  1, 

:  trs:  ^-V5  5!icr.:!v  a2:ered  V7/7.   Mifon,'   of  the    Text.—~ 

by  :!\r  '?orre::ion    :.;;;:::•.    c:  tr:e  s-r-rib-r?.  wi-±ou:  Tfr:  ::  :be  C'T  —  .,?  -;_..-  .-  •          -         -         .-     -     - 

ar.y  indi^non  being  _i:->rr-ei  TO  fho^v  :bi:  i:  L.ii  li:e>:  :heiiCLris:iir:  ;-r^:urs-      I 

>een  :\l:ere.i.     The  f:  I'.  :"••:::£  ire  :r.e  ni,^.ii-e-~:  C^en  Cr'  v^rir?  i:  ^.i5  r~.    u:-lv--\i  •"  -    - 

18  22.  wh:  •••h  orig:r.:vlly  r.^n  ••.Ub  r  •  >i  r--":~e  \v->  vr  -;~  -    -  e"-  ;--  "I-  ^------"r-  -*ir  '  "-• 

bam-;    Nu  11  15:    12  12:    1  S  3  13:    2  S  16  12:  resets  of"  bis  5:uir  a 


Textof  the  OT      THE  IXTERXATIOXAL  STAXDARD  BIBLE  EXCYCLOPAEHI  A 


All  such  study  was  oral.  During  lliis  period  the 
text  remained  a  purely  consonantal  text  plus  the 
puncla  extraordinaria. 

The  text  was  not  always  read,  however,  exactly 
as  it  was  written.     Soon  after  the  return  from  Baby- 
lon changes  were  made.     Perhaps  the 

1.  Changes   earliest  was  that  the  proper  name  Jeh 
Made  in         was  read  Adonai,   whence  the   LXX, 
Reading         and  through,  it  the  NT  "Lord."     The 

reason  will  be  found  in  Lev  24  11, 
where  render  "pnmointci-d  the  name."  Sometimes 
the  change  was  due  to  motives  of  taste  (Dt  28  30; 
1  S  6  11;  2  K  18  27);  but  the  commonest 
ground  was  grammar  or  logic.  Thus  a  word  was 
frequently  read  which  was  not  in  the  text  at  all 
(,I"-s  20  13;  2  S  18  20);  or  a  word  was  omit  KM! 
in  reading  (2  S  15  21;  2  K  5  IS);  or  the  letters 
of  a  word  were  transposed,  as  in  Josh  6  13;  _or 
one  letter  was  put  for  another,  csp.  irate  for  yodh 
or  yoilh  for  tmic;  or  words  were  divided  in  reading 
Otherwise  than  in  the  text  (see  above  V,  1).  The 
written  text  is  called  the  K°tlnbh  ("written"); 
what  was  read  is  called  the  K'Te  ("read"). 

The     scribes     during     these     centuries,     besides 
fixing  the  reading,  took  means  to  preserve  the  text 

by    counting    the    words    and    letters, 

2.  Preser-      and  finding  the  middle  verse   (Jgs  10 
vation  of         X;      Isa  33  21),    and    so    forth.     Tin- 
Text  middle  verse  of  the  Law  is  Lev  8  7, 

and  the  middle  of  tl  e  words  falls  in 
10  16.  The  middle  verse  of  the  Heb  Bible  is  Jer 
6  7.  Xote  was  made-  of  words  written  abnormally 
(Hos  10  14;  Mic  1  15;  Isa  3  S)  and  lists  were 
made  up.  All  such  lists  were  retained  in  the  mind; 
nothing  was  written. 

When  the  public  reading  of  the  Law  was  accom- 
panied by  an  Aram,  tr  (Xeh  8  S),  the  division  of 

the  text   into  verses  would  arise  spon- 

3.  Division    taneously.     The  Mish  gives  rules  for 
into  Verses    the  number  of  verses  to  be  read  at   a 

time  before  translating.  These  verses 
were  separated  by  a  space  only,  as  the  words  were. 
Hence  VSS  frequently  divide  differently  for  the 
Heb,  as  Hos  4  11;  Isa  1  12.  In  the  Heb  itself 
there  are  2S  old  verse  divisions  no  longer  observed 
(see  Baer  on  Hos  1  2).  The  space  is  called  pixka' 
and  the  verse  pas  ilk. 

About  the  same  time  the  Law  was  divided  into 

sections  (paraxha/i)  for  the  annual  reading.     In  Pal 

tht-  Law  was  read  through  once  in  3J- 

4.  Sections    years;      in     Babylon     once     a     year. 
of  the  Law     Hence    the    Law    is    divided    into    54 

sections  (Gen  69;  12  1,  etc)  for  the 
annual  reading.  It  is  also  divided  into  379  "shut" 
sect  ions,  indicated  by  a  space  in  t  he  middle  of  a  line, 
and  290  ''open"  sections,  indicated  by  a  space  at 
the  end  of  a  line.  In  printed  texts  these  sections 
are  noted  by  the  letters  .sand  p,  but,  if  they  coincide 
with  one  of  the  54,  by  sss  or  ppp.  The  Palestinian 
division  was  into  154  pdharlm. 

From  Maooaboan  times  54  passages  (haphtaroth] 

were  selected  from  the  Prophets  for  the  purposes  of 

the  synagogue  (Lk  4  17).     The  Proph- 

5.  Sections    ets  were  also  divided  into  smaller  sec- 
of  the  tions.    As  in  the  case  of  the  Law  (Ex 
Prophets        6  2S),  there  are  oases  of  false  division 

(Isa  56  9;   Hag  1  15). 

In  the  Heb   Bible  certain   passages  were  early 

written  in  a  peculiar  way  to  resemble  the  bricks  in 

the  wall  of  a  house,   either  in   three 

6.  Poetical    columns,    a   half-brick    upon    a   brick 
Passages        and  a  brick  upon  a  half-brick  (Ex  15; 

Jgs  5;  2  S  22),  or  in  two  columns,  a 
half-brick  upon  a  half-brick  and  a  brick  upon  a  brick 
(Dt  32;  Josh  12;  Est  9).  In  the  LXX,  Pss, 
Prov,  Eccl,  Cant,  Job  are  written  in  sticks;  but 
that  this  was  not  done  in  Heb  seems  proved  by 


the  variations  as  to  the  number  of  lines  (Ps  65  8; 
90  2.11). 

The  number  of  books  is  24,  S,  K,  Ch  each  count  ing 
as  one,  Ezr  including  Xeh,  the  twelve  Minor  Prophets 

counting  one  book  (Mic  3  12  is  the 
7.  Division  middle).  The  Law  counts  5  books, 
into  Books  Pss  one,  though  the  division  of  it  into 

5  books  is  ancient  (of  Ps  106  4S  with 
1  Ch  16  35. 3G).  By  joining  Ruth  to  Jgs  and  Lam 
to  Jer,  the  number  22  was  obtained — the  number 
of  letters  in  the  Heb  alphabet.  When,  probably 
about  the  3d  cent.  AD,  leather  rolls  gave  place  to 
parchment  books,  it  would  be  possible  to  have  the 
whole  Bible  in  one  volume  and  the  question  of  the 
order  of  the  books  would  arise.  The  order  in  the 
Talm  is  as  follows:  The  Law  (5),  the  Prophets  (S), 
Josh,  Jgs,  S,  K,  Jer,  Ezk,  Isa,  and  the  XII,  the 
Hagiographaor  K'thuhhlm  (11),  Ruth, Pss,  Job,  Prov, 
Eool,  Cant,  Lam,  Dnl.  Est,  E/r,  Ch.  The  Prophets 
are  usually  subdivided  into  Former:  Josh,  Jgs,  S,  K; 
and  Latter:  Jer,  Ezk,  Isa  and  the  XII.  The  tra- 
ditional or  ''Mason-tie''  order  places  Isa  before 
Jer,  and  in  the  Hagiographa  the  order  is:  Ch,  Pss, 
Job,  Prov,  Ruth,  Cant,  Eccl,  Lam,  Est,  Dnl,  Ezr, 
the  middle  verse  being  Ps  130  3.  The  order  found 
in  printed  texts  is  that  of  Gorman  MSS.  The  books 
receive  their  names  from  a  word  near  the  beginning, 
from  their  contents,  or  from  their  supposed  author. 

IX.  The  Vocalization  of  the   Text.  —About  the 
time  of  the  Reformation  it  was  the  universal  belief 
that   the   vowel-marks   and   other   points   were   of 
equal  antiquity   with   the   consonants.     The  Jews 
believed    Moses    received    them    orally    and    Ezra 
reduced  them  to  writing. 

The  first  to  assign  a  late  date  to  the  points  was 

Elias  Levita  (14GX-1">49).     The  battle  was  fought, 

out  in  the  17th  cent.      Ludovicus  Cap- 

1.  Antiquity  pollus  (d.  1G5S)  argued  for  a  date  about 
of  the  000  AD.     The  Buxtorfs  defended  the 
Points  old     view.     The     following     are     the 

facts. 

When  the  LXX  was  made,  the  Heb  text  had  not 

even  as  many  vowel-letters  as  it  has  now,  and  still 

less  points;   nor  when  the  Syr  version 

2.  Probable  was  made  in  the  2d  cent.,  or  Jerome's 
Date  of  Yulg  between  393-405,  or  the  earlier 
Invention      Tgs.    Lastly,  the  points  were  unknown 

to  the  Talm.  They,  therefore,  did 
not  exist  before  GOO  AD.  The  earliest  authority 
on  the  points  is  Aaron  ben  Asher  of  the  school  of 
Tiberias  (d.  about  9S9).  He  wrote  a  copy  of  the 
Heb  Bible  with  all  the  points,  which  became  the 
standard  codex.  The  probable  date  is,  therefore, 
taken  to  be  about  the  year  700;  and  this  agrees  with 
what  was  taking  place  in  regard  to  Gr,  Syr  and  Arab. 
MSS.  The  Jews  probably  borrowed  from  the 
Syrians. 

*Xo   doubt,    at   first,    many  systems  of  pointing 
existed.     Of    these,   two  survived,   the   Palestinian 

and    Bab,   or   superlinear.     The   chief 

3.  Various     features   of    the   latter   are    that    tin- 
Systems         signs   are   placed   above   the   line;     it 
and  Re-         has  no  sign  for  e  (scghol),  and  has  but 
censions         one    system    of   accents.     The    Pales- 
tinian, the  one  familiar  to  us,   exists 

in  two  recensions,  those  of  Ben  Asher  and  of  his 
contemporary,  Ben  Naphtali  of  Babylon;  hence  a 
Western  and  an  Eastern. 

X.  The  Palestinian  System. — Since  the  vocaliza- 
tion of  the  text  took  place  about  700  AD,  it  will  be 
understood   that    it   differs   considerably  from  the 
living  language.     What  t  hat  was  may  be  found  from 
the  transliteration  of  proper  names  in  the  LXX, 
in  Origen  and  Jerome,  and  from  a  comparison  with 
modern  Arabic. 

A  comparison  with  Arab,  indicates  that  the  Heb 
heth,  and  it  is  certain  from  the  LXX  that  the  *ayin, 


2W3 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Text  of  the  OT 


had  cadi   two  distinct   sounds.     This  difference  is 

not  shown  in  the  pointing,  though  a  point  was  used 

to  distinguish  the  two  sounds  of  /;,  g, 

1.  The  Con-  </,  /r,  /;,  t,  and  of  s,  and  ,s7i  and  the  two 
sonants          values  of  fi.    The  absence  of  this  point 

is  indicated  byrdphch.  The  same  point 
marks  the  doubling  of  a  consonant.  The  guttur- 
als and  /•  an;  not  doubled,  though  they  certainly 
were  when  the  language  was  spoken  (cf  Gen  43  20; 
E/k  16  4,  etc). 

The  system  of  vowel-marks  attempts  to  repro- 
duce the  sounds  exactly.     Thus  the  short  «-sound 

which  must    precede  a  guttural  letter 

2.  The  is  indicated,  and  before  a  guttural  i 
Vowels  and  u  are  replaced  by  c  and  o.     On  the 

other  hand  //  before  i  does  not  seem 
to  have  been  sounded  in  some  cases.  Thus  the  LXX 
has  Israel,  but  leremias.  tfft''wd'  is  said  by  Hen 
Asher  to  sound  i  before  y;  before  a  guttural  it  took 
the  sound  of  the  guttural's  vowel,  as  mo'ddh 
(m''o<ih),  and  had  other  values  as  well. 

There    is    a    special    accentual    system    for    the 
poetical  books,  I'rov,  Pss,  and  Job  (except  the  prose 

parts).     The  titles  and  such  marks  as 

3.  The  Kcldh  are  in  the  Pss  accented  as  form- 
Accents          ing   part  of   the   verse.     The   accents 

had  three  values,  musical,  inter- 
punctional,  and  strictly  accentual.  But  these 
values  have  to  do  with  the  language,  not  as  it  was 
spoken,  but  as  it  was  chanted  in  the  public  reading 
of  the  synagogue. 

The  words  were  not  always  pointed  in  the  usual 
way,  but  sometimes  according  to  subjective  con- 
siderations.    Thus  the  phrase  "to  see 

4.  Anoma-     the  face  of  God"  is  pointed  "to  appear 
lous  Point-    before  God,"  on  account  of  Ex  33  20 
ings  (Ps  42  3;      Isa  1  12).     Similarly     in 

Eccl  3  21,  "which  goeth  upward" 
is  put  for  "whether  it  goeth  upward."  See  also 
Jer  34  18;  Isa  7  11.  Frequently  the  punctuation 
is  inconsistent  with  itself.  Thus,  'gathered  to  his 
peoples'  (Gen  35  29),  but  "gathered  to  my  people" 
(sing.,  Gen  49  29).  _  So  p'lishtim,  "Philistines,"  re- 
ceives the  article  with  prepositions,  otherwise  not. 
In  many  places  two  pointings  are  mixed,  as  if  to  give 
a  choice  of  readings  (Ps  62  4;  68  3,  and  often). 

XL    The    Masorah. — The  Heb   text  as  printed 
with  all  the  points  and  accents  is  called  the  Maso- 

retic  text.     Masorah,  or  better,  MCIKKO- 

1.  Meaning  rcth,  is  derived  from  a  root  meaning 
of  the  Term  "to    hand    down"    (Xu  31  5).      This 

tradition  began  early.  Rabbi  Akiba 
(d.  135)  called  it  a  "hedge  about  the  Law."  It  tells 
the  number  of  times  a  particular  expression  occurs, 
and  mentions  synonymous  expressions,  and  so  forth. 
The  remarks  placed  in  the  side  margin  of  the  codex, 
often  merely  a  letter  denoting  the  number  of  times 
the  word  occurs,  are  called  the  M.  parra.  The  notes 
were  afterward  expanded  and  placed  in  the  top  and 
bottom  margins  and  called  the  M.  magnet.  Notes 
too  long  for  insertion  in  the  margin  were  placed 
sometimes  at  the  beginning,  generally  at  the  end  of 
the  codex,  and  called  the  .17.  finalis.  The  Masorah 
differs  with  different  MSS;  and  there  is  an  Eastern 
and  a  Western  Masorah. 

The  oldest  and  most  important  part  of  the  Maso- 
rah lies  in  the  readings  which  differ  from  the  writ  t  en 
text ,  called  K''re.     These  may  represent 

2.  The  Kere  variant   readings  of  MSS,  esp.  a  class 
and  Kethibh  <>f  them  called  .fiilnr.     The  most   are 

mere  errata  and  corrigenda  of  the 
text.  Such  are  the  four  K.  parpetua,  'adhondy  (for 
Y  II  W  II),  Jerusalem,  Issachar  and  hu',  in  the  case 
of  which  the  read  form  is  not  appended  at  the  foot 
of  the  page.  Sometimes  the  emendation  is  right, 
as  in  Am  88;  cf  9  5;  sometimes  the  lOthihh 
represents  an  archaic  form  (Jgs  9  8.12;  Isa  32  11). 


A  Kpre  was  inserted  at   1  S  17  34  to  correct  a  mis- 
print in  the  Venice  Bible  of  1521. 

Other  notes  at  the  foot  of  the  page  draw  attention 
to  redundant  or  defective  writing.  Directions  for 

the  arrangement  of  the  text  are  given 
3.  Other  in  Gen  49  S;  I)t  31  2S,  and  elsewhere. 
Features  Each  book  concludes  with  a  note  giving 

the  number  of  verses,  sections,  middle 
verse  and  other  particulars  about,  the  book.  The 
second  last  verses  of  Isa,  Mai,  Lam,  Eccl  are  repeated 
after  the  last,  which  is  ill-omened. 

XII.  MSS  and  Printed  Text,.  -The  MSS  of  the  Heb 
Bible  are  not  nearly  so  old  as  those  of  the  fir,  ol«l  Heb 

MSS  being  generally  destroyed.  By  far 
1.  Manu-  (no  ()l(l('stj  MS  <>f  any  purl  of  t  lie  Bible  is 

the  Papyrus  Xasli  of  about  150  A  I),  con- 
scnpis  taining  the  Decalogue  and  Sli''mn'  (Dt6  4). 

Next  conies  the  St.  Petersburg  codex  of  the 
latter  Prophets  of  910  AD,  though  (Mnsburg  considers  a 
MS  of  the  Pent  (Brit.  M  us.  Orient.  -1145)  older.  The 
pointing  of  the  latter  is  Palestinian;  of  the  former,  super- 
linear.  The  oldest  MS  of  the  whole  OT  is  dated  1010  AD. 


The  following  are  the  chief  printed  texts:   The  Psalter 
Of  1477,  place   unknown,  with  comm.  of   Kimhi.     The 

2.  Early 


, 

lexts 


first  few  pss  are  voweled;  the  Pent,  14S2, 
Bologna,  with  Rashi  and  TgOnkelos;  per- 
haps  the  Five  Rolls  appeared  at  the  same 
time;  the  Prophets,  unpointed,  1485-80, 
at  Soncino,  with  Kashi  and  Kinilil;  the 
Hagiographa,  148(1-87,  at  Naples,  with 
points,  but  not  accents,  and  comms.  (In  the  last  two 
YHWH  and  'ftldhlm  are  spelled  YIIDII  and  'Elo- 
dhim);  the  2d  ed  of  the  Pent  at  Faro  in  Portugal,  14S7, 
first  without  comm.;  the  editio  princept  of  the  whole  OT 
with  points  and  accents,  but  no  comm.,  finished  at  Son- 
cino, February  14,  MSS,  reprinted  in  1491-9:5,  and  in  the 
Brescia  Bible  of  1494.  The  last  was  the  one  used  by 
Luther.  Owing  to  persecution,  the  next  edition  was  not 
till  1511-17. 

The  first  Christian  edition  of  the  Heb  text  is  that  con- 
tained in  the  Complutensian  Polyglot,  finished  July  10, 
1517.     It  has  many  peculiarities,  and  first 
3    Later          discarded  the  Masoretic  sections  for  the 
Tj^UJftna  Christian  chapters,  the  Vulg  being  followed. 

Coitions  The  first  rabbinic  Bible—  that  is,  pointed 

and  accented  text,  with  Masorah,  Tgs,  and 
comms.  —  was  printed  by  Daniel  Bomberg  at  Venice  in 
1510-17.  The  division  of  S,  K,  Ch,  and  Ezr  into  two 
books  each  is  first  marked  here  in  a  purely  Heb  text, 
and  the  consonants  of  the  K>re  first  given  in  the  margin. 
Previously  the  vowels  were  inserted  in  the  text  only. 
Thus  in  Isa  44  14,  Luther  did  not  observe  the  small  nu'n, 
taking  it  for  a  zni/in.  What  is  called,  however,  the  editio 
princeps  of  the  rabbinic  Bible  is  Bomberg's  second  edition, 
ed  by  Jacob  ben  Hayylm  (1524-25).  This  forms  the 
standard  edition  of  the  MT.  S  and  K  are  each  treated 
as  two  books.  $ebhirim  are  noticed  for  the  first  time,  and 
the  Kcres  marked  with  k.  The  I'oli/glot  of  Arias  Montanus 
(1507-71)  used  the  dilatable  letters  ',  h,  I,  t,  m,  broadened 
to  fill  up  lines,  and  first  numbered  the  chapters  (in 
Heb  letters).  Buxtorf's  rabbinic  Bible  appeared  in  1018- 
19:  the  Paris  I'»l>j</l<>t  in  1029-44;  the  London  I'ohj,/l,,t 
of  Walton  in  1054-57,  which  first  gives  the  Kthiopie  and 
Pers  VSS;  that  of  Athias  in  10(51,  which  first  inserted 
the  numbers  of  Christian  chapters  in  the  clauses  at  the 
end  of  the  books  of  the  Law,  the  Mantua  edition  of 
1744  inserting  them  for  all  the  books.  In  the  last 
is  embodied  the  Masoretic  comm.  of  Solomon  de  Norzi 
(1020).  Recent  editors  are  Baer  and  (Mnsburg.  Special 
mention  must  be  made  of  the  edition  of  Kittel  which 
inserts  the  variant  readings  of  the  VSS  at  the  foot  of  the 
page. 

In  modern  editions  of  the  Heb  text  the  numbers  of 
the  Christian  chapters  are  inserted.  The  chapters 
had  their  origin  in  the  Vulg,  and  are 
4.  Chapters  variously  ascribed  to  Lanfranc  (d. 
and  Verses  10S9),  Stephen  Langton  (d.  1228),  but 
with  most  probability  to  Hugo  de 
Sancto  Caro  (13th  cent.).  They  mostly  coincide 
with  the  Masoretic  sections,  and  came  in  with  the 
Polyglots  from  1517  on,  being  used  first  in  a  purely 
Heb  text  in  1573-74.  Some  modern  editions  mark 
the  verses  in  the  margin,  the  5's  in  Heb  letters, 
except  15,  which  is  denoted  by  <H'  =  0-t-(>,  instead 
of  ?///  =  10-r-5,  because  the  latter  would  =  Yah.  After 
the  Clautiida  Masorctica  at  the  end  of  Ch  and  else- 
where, there  is  an  extended  note  taken  from  1  Ch 
19  13  (2  S  10  12). 

LITERATURE.  —  Benzinger,  Hebrfiixrhr  Archtiuliiyif.  Leip- 
zig, 1894;  Berger,  Histoire  de  I'ccriture  ilan,*  Vantiquite, 
Paris,  1892;  Blail,  Masorvtischc  Untersuchungen,  S  trass- 
burg,  1891;  Einleituna  in  die  heilige  Schrift,  Budapest, 


THE  IXTEHXATION'AL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Thaddaeus 
Theocracy 

1S94-  Studien  znm  iiltficbrfiixclicn  Huchirexeii  .  Pt .  I.  Strass- 
burg,'l902;  Buhl,  Canon  an, I  T,'.rt  (UTby  .1.  Macpherson), 
Edinburgh,  ISOli;  IHitin,  The  Ten  Nequdoth  of  the  Torah, 
Baliimore,  1900;  lUixtorf  (father),  Tiberias  site  Commen- 
tarius  Masorethicus,  Basel,  10:_>0;  Blixtorf  fson).  Tractatus 
<le  Punctorum  On' ./,'"' ,  etc,  Basel,  104s;  Cappellus,  Arca- 
num J'unrtiitioiii.i  Iterelntuni,  Leyden,  101M;  Clwvolson, 
Corpus  Inscrtpiicmttm  Ilcbrnicarum,  St.  Petersburg,  1SSL>; 
Driver  A'^.-s  <>»  the  Hebrew  Te.rt  ,,f  Sam  ue.l,  Oxford  ,  19  1 .'. ; 
Edersheim,  ///*/„/•//  o/ f/*c  ./<•,«..;,,  JVa*i<m,  London  1  SOU; 
Ktheridge,  Jerusalem  and  Tiberias  ("Post-Biblical 
Hebrew  Literature"),  London,  1X50:  l-rankel,  (<•/-•;• 
palastinische  und  alexandrinische  Sehriflforxchuno,  Brefi- 
lau  1S54;  Geclon,  '/'/,»:  Massoretir,  Notes  Contained  in  the 
Edition  of  the  II eh  Scripture*,  Published  b>i  </i«  British  and 
Foreign  Bible  Society,  London,  11)05;  Gcigcr,  I  rschnft 
und  'I'ebersetzunoen  der  Bibel,  JJreslau,  1S57;  Gmsburu', 
l,,tr<>  to  the  ....  lleb  Bible,  London,  IS!)/;  I  ho  M«*- 
sorah,  London,  1SSO-85;  Kennedy,  The  Kate-Line  in  the. 
lie),  Scriptures,  Edinburgh.  190:<;  Kcnyon,  Our  Bible 
and  the  Ancient  MfiS,  London,  IS98;  King,  The  Pas  in 
Three  Collections  ton  the  triennial  cycle),  (  arabrulRO. 
1SDS;  Konin,  Einleitung  in  das  AT,  Bonn.  ISOU;  Loisy, 
/lixtoire  critique  du  te.rtc  et  dfs  versions  de  la  Bible,  \  ans, 
1S92-95;  Nowack,  Lchrbufh  der  hebraischen  Arch&ologic, 
l-Yeiburg  and  Leipzig,  1X94;  I)e  Rouge,  Afemotre  «ur 
J'oriffine  tgyptienne  de  T  alphabet  pMniciVw.  Paris,  1874; 
Schiirer  (!e*ehiehie  dfs  iildinchen  I  oZfces  im  Zeitalter  Jesii 
Chr^u  (KT  by  John  Macpherson  and  others),  Edinburgh, 
1SDO-  Schwab,  -/erus  7Vm  (Kr.  tr),  J'aris,  IS,  1-00; 
Strack,  Prolegomena  Critica  in  Vetus  Testamentum 
Hebraic.um,  Leipzig,  1S7;5;  Einleitung  in  den  1  almud, 
Leipzig,  1S9-1;  Taylor,  The  Alphabet,  London,  ISM; 
T  II.  Weir,  A  Short  History  of  the  lleb  Text  of  the  OT 
London,  11)07;  VVinckler,  Die.  Thontafeln  eon  /<«-<'- 
Imarno,  Berlin,  189G;  The  Tcll-tl-Amarna  Letters  Berlin, 
London  and  New  York,  isoii;  Wolf.  BihIiothecaHcbraea, 
Hamburg  and  Leipzig,  1715-HH;  \\iinsche,  Bibhotheca 
Unbbinica,  Leipzig,  1SSO. 

Encyclopaedias:  Cheynoand  Black,  E  B.London,  1 899- 
190H-  Fairl)airn,  l»t]>eri<il  Bible  Diet.,  London,  18(50 
("OT  "  "Scriptures,"  "  Writing,"  by  I).  IF.  Weir);  111)11, 
Edinburgh  LSOS-190-t  ("Text  of  the  Old  Testament,"  by 
H  T,  Stracki;  llerzog.  A'/..  Leipzig,  1X00  If;  Jew  Enc, 
New  York  and  London,  1901-0;  vigoureux,  D%ctionnaire 
de  In  mt'le,  i'aris,  1891  if. 

Hebrew  texts:  DikdukchaTe'amimdes  Akron  ....  ben 
\sher  ed  by  Baer  and  Strack,  Leipzig,  IS/1);  Massoretli 
ha-  \fassoreth  of  Klias  Lenta,  with  JOT  and  notes  by  C.  D. 
(Hnsburg,  London,  1807;  Midrash  hag-Gadol:  Genesu 
cd  bv  S.  Schecliter,  Cambridge,  11)02;  l)n*  line/,,  Ochla 
\\-rochla,  ed  by  Frensdorir,  Hanover,  IsiVl;  Mishnah, 
with  Lattr  by  <  Juil.  Surenhusius,  Amsterdam,  1698-1 ,  o.i; 
Sifru  ed  by  Jacob  Schlossberg,  Vienna,  IsiiL';  Si/re,  ed  by 
M  Friedniann  (first  part),  Vienna,  1864;  Soferim,  ed  by 
.Joel  Miiller,  Vienna,  1878;  Babylonian  Talm,  ed  (with 
(Jer  tr)  by  Lazarus  Uoldschmidt ,  Berlin,  1896 — . 

Periodicals:  Academy,  XXXI,  4.",1,  "The  Moabite 
Stone";  Good  Words,  1870,  673,  "The  Moabite  Stone," 
J>v  1)  H  Weir;  Jewish  Quarterly  /,'•  rii  w:  Dr.  A.  Btichler 
oh  "the  Triennial  Cycle,"  V,  420,  VI.  1;  "  K.  (i.  King 
on  the  Innuenee  of  the  Triennial  Cycle  upon  the  Psalter, 
bv  I.  Abrahams,  April,  1904;  "Neue  Masoretische 
Studien  "  by  Blau,  January,  1004;  "On  Hie  Decalogue 
Papyrus,"  bv  V.  C.  Burkitt,  April,  HKKi;  Journal  of 
Theological  Studies,  V,  1>0:{,  "The  Influence  of  the  r\  nen- 
nial  Cycle  upon  the  Psalter,"  by  L.  <L  King;  1'KF: 
"lleb  Mosaic  Inscription  at  Ivefr  Kcnna,  by  (  lermont- 
Ganneau,  October,  1901;  "On  the  Siloarn  Inscription," 
1881  198-  "On  the  Excavations  at  Taanach  and 
Megiddo  "1904,  180,  KM).".,  78;  Proceedings  of  the  Society 
of  Biblical  Archaeology:  E.J.Pilcher,  "On  the  Date  of  the 
Siloam  Inscription,"  XIX,  105  XX,  2\H;  "On  tho 
Decalogue  Papyrus."  by  S.  A.  Cook,  January,  1903; 
"lleb  Illuminated  MSS  of  the  Bible  of  the  llth  und 
l^th  Cents  "  by  M.  Gaster,  XXII,  226;  Scottish  Review, 
IX  215,  "Tho  Apocryphal  Character  of  the  Moabite 
Stone  "  by  Albert  Lmvy;  Studin  Biblica  et  Ecclesiastica, 
III  1  "'Phe  Introduction  of  the  Square  Characters  in 
Biblical  MSS,  and  an  Account  of  the  Earliest  MSS  of  the 
OT,  with  a,  Table  of  Alphabets  and  Facsimiles,  by  Ad. 
Neubauer;  Mittheilu>n/<n  und  Nachrichten  des  deutschen 
Palaestina-Vereins:  "On  the  Excavations  at  Taanach, 
by  Sellin,  1002,  13,  17,  33,  1003,  1.  and  1005,  no 
"On  the  Excavations  at  Tell  el  Mutesellim,  by  .Schu- 
macher, 1004,  14,  33,  and  1!)OC>,  no.  3;  and  by  Benzmger, 
1004,  65;  Zeitschrift  des  deulschen  Pnlnextina-Vereins: 
"On"  the  Siloam  Inscription,"  by  Socin,  XXII,  61; 
Zeitschrift  der  deutschen  morgenlfindixchen  Gescllxchaft: 
"Zur  Gesrhichto  der  hebrilischen  Accente,"  by  I'. 
Kahle,  1901,  107. 

THOMAS  HUNTER  \\EIR 

THADDAEUS,  llia-de'us  (OaSSatos,  Tlnnl- 
daios):  One  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  (Alt  10  :$; 
Mk  3  IS).  In  Mt  10  3  AV,  the  reading  is^'Leb- 
b;ietis,  whose  surnaino  \v;is  Thaddaeus."  The 
name  corresponds  to  Judas,  the  son  (K  V),  or  brother 
(AV),  of  James,  given  in  the  lists  of  J.k  6  Hi;  Acts 
1  13.  See  JUDAS  NOT  ISCARIOT;  LEBBAETJS. 


2904 


The  "Gospel  of  the  Ebionites,"  or  "Gospel  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles,"  of  the  2d  cent,  and  men- 
tioned by  Origen,  narrates  that  Thaddaeus  was 
also  among  those  who  received  their  call  to  follow 
Jesus  at  the  Sea  of  Tiberias  (cf  Mt  4  18-22;  see 
also  SIMO.V  THE  CA.VANAIOAX). 

According    to    the    "Genealogies   of  the  Twelve 
Apostles"   (cf   Budge,    Contending*  of  the    Apostles, 
II,  50),  Thaddaeus  was  of  the  house  of  Joseph;   ac- 
cording to  the  "Book  of  the  Bee"  lie  was  of  the  tribe 
of  Judah.     There  is  abundant  testimony  in  apoc- 
ryphal lit.  of  the  missionary  activity  of    a  certain 
Thaddaeus  in  Syria,  but  doubt  exists  as  to  whether 
this  was  the  apostle.     Thus   (1)  according  to  the 
"Acts  of  St.   Peter"    (cf  Budge,  II,  466  ff)   Peter 
•mpointed    Thaddaeus    over    the    island    of    Syria 
and  Kdessa,     (2)   The  "Preaching  of  the  blessed 
Judas,    the   brother   of   Our    Lord,    who   was   sur- 
named  Thaddaeus"    (Budge,  357  ff),  describes  his 
mission  in  Syria  and  in  Dacia,  and  indicates  him 
as  one  of  the  Twelve.     (:*)   The  "Aeta  Thaddaci 
icf  Tischend:>rf,  Ada  Apostoloriim  Apocrypha,  1851, 
261  ff)  refers  to  this  Thaddaeus  in  the  text  as  one 
of  the  Twelve,  but  in  the  heading  as  one  of  the 
Seventy.     (4)  The  Abgar  legend,   dealing  with  a 
supposed  correspondence  between  Abgar,  king  of 
Syria   and  Christ,  .stales  in  its  Syr  form,  as  tr'1  by 
Eusebius    (UK,   I,   xiii,   6-22)    (cf   THOMAS),    that 
"after  the  ascension  of  Christ,  Judas,  who  was  also 
called  Thomas,  sent  to  Abgar  the  apostle  Thad- 
daeus, one  of  the  Seventy"  (cf  Ilennccke,  Neutesta- 
mcntlic/ie.    Apnl^ri/plicn,    76  ff).     Jerome,   however, 
identifies  this  same  Thaddaeus  with  Lebbaeus  and 
"Judas  ....  of  James"  of  Luke  (Lk  6  16).    Hen- 
necke  (op.  cit .,  47)5,  474  )  surmises  that  in  the  original 
form  of  the  Abgar  legend  Thomas  was  the  central 
figure,  but  that  through  the  influence  of  the  later 
"Acts' of  Thomas,"  which  required  room  to  be  made 
for  Thomas'  activity  in  India,  a  later  Syr  recension 
was  made,    in  which  Thomas  became  merely   the 
sender  of  Thaddaeus  to  Kdessa,  and  that  this  was 
the  form  which  Eusebius  made  use  of  in  his  tr. 
According  to  Phillips  (cf  Phillips,   The  Doctrine  of 
Addni  the   Apostle),  who  quotes  Zahn  in  support, 
the  confusion  may  bo  due  to  the  substitution  of  the 
Gr  name  Thaddaeus  for  the  name  Addai  of  the 
Syr  MSS.    See  APOCRYPHAL  ACTS. 

"  The  general  consensus  seems  to  indicate,  however, 
that  both  Thomas  and  Thaddaeus  the  apostle 
had  some  connection  with  Edessa.  Of  the  various 
identifications  of  Thaddaeus  with  other  Bib.  per- 
sonages which  might  be  inferred  from  the  foregoing, 
that  with  "Judas  ....  of  James"  is  the  only  one 
that  has  received  wide  acceptance. 

The  burial  place  of  Thaddaeus  is  variously  placed 
at  Beirut  and  in  Egypt.  A  "Gospel  of  Thaddaeus' 
is  mentioned  in  the  Decree  of  Gelasius. 

C.  M.  KEBR 
THAHASH,  tha'hash.     See  TAHASII. 

THAMAH,  tha'ma.     See  TF.MAH. 

THAMAR,  tha'mar  (©ajxap,  Tfidmnr):  AV;  Gr 
form  of  "Tarnar"  (thus  Mt  1  3  KV).  Mother  of 
Pore/  and  Zerah. 

THAMMUZ,  tham'uz  (PEP,  tammuz).  See 
TAMMUZ. 

THAMNATHA,  tham'na-tha.     See  TIMXATH. 

THANK,  thank,  THANKS,  thanks,  THANKS- 
GIVING, thanks-giv'ing,  thanks'giv-ing:  Both  the 
vb.  and  the  nouns  appear  almost  uniformly  for 
n"T  ,  yadhah,  and  evxapio-rtu,  eucharisteo,  and  their 
cognates.  Euchnristud  is  the  usual  Gr  vb.  for  "to 
thank,"  but  yadhah  takes  on  this  force  only 


2965 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Thaddaeus 
Theocracy 


through  its  context  and  is  rather  a  synonym  for 
"praise"  or  "bless"  (q.v.).  LXX  renders  yCidhdh 
usually  by  t£ofj.o\oytw,  cxomoloyed,  "speak  forth 
together,"  "praise"  (<:f  Tob  12  20;  Sir  39  6,  etc, 
and  the  use  of  "thank"  in  EV  to  correspond),  and 
this  vh.  reappears  in  Mt  11  25  ||  Lk  10  21,  with 
Eng.  "thank"  (RVm  "praise").  Cf  the  use  of  antho- 
mologcomai  (Lk  2  3S)  and  ftomoloyed  (lie  13  la, 
AV  "giving  thanks,"  RV  "make  confession";  AV 
is  preferable).  For  chdris  in  the  sense  of  "thanks" 
(note  the  singular  "thank"  in  AV  Sir  20  10;  Lk  6 
32-34),  see  GRACE.  1  Pet  2  19  AV  has  "thank- 
worthy" for  charts,  RV  "acceptable,"  RVm  "grace." 

BURTON  SCOTT  BARTON 

THANK  OFFERING.  See  SACRIFICE  IN  THE 
OT. 

THARA,  thfi'ra,  thar'a  (0apd,  Thara):  AV;  Gr 
form  of  "Terah"  (thus  Lk  3  34  RV). 

THARRA,  thar'a  (0appd,  Thami):  One  of  the 
1\vo  eunuchs,  "keepers  of  the  court,"  \vho  with 
his  companion  Gabatha  (Bigthan)  formed  a  con- 
spiracy against  King  Artaxerxes  which  was  detected 
by  Mordecai  (Ad  Est  12  l  =  "Teresh"  of  Est  2 
21 ;  6  2).  Tharra  and  his  companion  were  hanged. 
Jos  (IU,  II,  vi,  4)  calls  him  "Thcodestes." 


THARSHISH,  thar'shish 
See  TAUSHISH. 


THASSI,  thas'I  (»  V,  0a<rcre£,  Thassel,  B,  0a<r<r£s, 

Thaxsits):  The  surname  of  Simon,  the  brother  of 
Judas  Maccabaeus  (1  Mace  2  3;  Syr  "Tharsi"). 
It  is  uncertain  what  the  name  means,  perhaps 
"director"  or  "guide,"  since  Simon  was  "a  man  of 
counsel,"  or  "the  zealous." 

THAT  DAY.     See  DAY  OF  THE  LORD. 

THEATRE,  the'a-ter  (Acts  19  29.31).  See 
GAMES. 

THEBES,  thebz.     See  XO-AMON. 

THEBEZ,  the'bez  (73P ,  tebhec.,  "brightness"; 
B,  0TiPt|s,  Thebes,  A,  ©aipcus,  Thaibais):  A  city 
in  Mt.  Ephraim  which  refused  submission  to  Abime- 
lech  when  he  set  up  as  king  of  Israel.  After  the 
reduction  of  Shechem  he  turned  his  arms  against 
Thebez.  There  was  a  strong  tower  within  the  city 
— the  citadel — into  which  all  the  inhabitants 
gathered  for  safety,  climbing  onto  the  roof  of  the 
tower.  Abimelech  incautiously  venturing  near  the 
tower,  a  woman  cast  an  upper  millstone  upon  his 
head  and  broke  his  skull.  Fearing  the  shame  of 
perishing  by  the  hand  of  a  woman,  he  persuaded  his 
armor-bearer  to  thrust  him  through  (Jgs  9  50  ff). 
The  incident  is  alluded  to  in  2  S  11  21.  Onom 
places  it  13  Rom  miles  from  Neapolis  (Ndbltis) 
on  the  road  to  Scythopolis  (B&isan).  There  is  no 
doubt  that  it  is  represented  by  Tubas.  This  is  a 
village  situated  in  a  district  of  considerable  fer- 
tility, about  10  miles  from  Ndblus.  There  are  many 
olive  trees.  The  rain  is  captured  and  led  to  rock- 
cut  cisterns,  whence  the  village  draws  its  water- 
supply.  According  to  the  Samaritans  the  tomb  of 
Ncby  Toba  marks  the  grave  of  the  patriarch  Asher. 

W.    EwiNG 

THECOE,     thfi-kr/e     (1  Mace  9  33).     See  TE- 

KOA. 

THEE-WARD,  the'werd.  "To  thee-ward"  (1  S 
19  4)  =  toward  thee.  See  WARD. 

THEFT.     See  CRIMES;  PUNISHMENTS. 


THELASAR,  thf--la'sar  pEX?P, ,  Ha' war, 
n.TS53?, ,  lclaniifir').  See  TELASSAR. 

THELERSAS,  thn-lur'sas  (©tXtpo-ds,  Thdersds 
[1  Esd  6  30J).  See  TEL-HARSHA. 

THEOCANUS,  thc-ok'a-nus:  1  Esd  9  14  AV  = 
RV  "Thocanus." 

THEOCRACY,  the-ok'ra-si  (0«OKpaT(a,  theo- 
kralia,  from  0«6s,  theos,  "a  god,"  and  Kparos,  krdtos, 
"power";  after  the  analogy  of  the  words  "democ- 
racy," "aristocracy,"  and  the  like):  "Theocracy"  is 
not  a  Bib.  word.  The  idea,  however,  is  Bib.,  and 
in  strictness  of  speech  exclusively  Bib.  The  reali- 
zation of  the  idea  is  not  only  confined  to  Israel,  but 
in  the  preexilic  history  of  Israel  the  realization  of 
the  idea  was  confined  to  the  Southern  Kingdom, 
and  in  post-exilic  history  to  the  period  between  the 
return  under  Ezra  and  the  days  of  Malachi. 

For  the  word  "theocracy"  we  are,  by  common 
consent,  indebted  to  Jos.  In  his  writings  it  seems 
to  occur  but  once  (CAp,  II,  xvi).  The  passage  reads 
as  follows:  "Our  lawgiver  had  an  eye  to  none  of 
these,"  that  is,  these  different  forms  of  government, 
such  as  monarchy,  aristocracy,  oligarchy,  and 
others  of  which  Jos  had  been  speaking,  "but,  as 
one  might  say,  using  a  strained  expression,  he  set 
forth  the  national  polity  as  a  theocracy,  referring 
the  rule  and  might  to  God"  (Stanton's  tr).  It  is 
generally  agreed  that  the  language  here  used  indi- 
cates that  Jos  knew  himself  to  be  coining  a  new 
word. 

If,  now,  we  turn  from  the  word  to  the  OT  idea 
to  which  it  gives  fitting  and  apt  expression,  that 
idea  cannot  be  better  slated  than  it  has  been  by 
Kautzsch — namely,  "The  notion  of  theocracy  is 
that  the  constitution  [of  Israel]  was  so  arranged 
that  all  the  organs  of  government  were  without 
any  independent  power,  and  had  simply  to  announce 
and  execute  the  will  of  God  as  declared  by  priest 
and  prophets,  or  reduced  to  writing  as  a  code  of 
laws"  (IIDB,  extra  vol,  630,  1,  init.).  The  same 
writer  is  entirely  correct  when  he  says  that  in  what 
is  known  in  certain  circles  as  "the  PC" — though  he 
might  have  said  in  the  OT  generally — "everything, 
even  civil  and  criminal  law,  is  looked  at  from  the 
religions  standpoint"  (ib,  ut  supra). 

If  the  foregoing  be  a  correct  account  of  the  idea 
expressed  by  the  word  "theocracy,"  and  particu- 
larly if  the  foregoing  be  a  correct  account  of  the  OT 
representation  of  God's  relation  to,  and  rule  in  and 
over  Israel,  it  follows  as  a  matter  of  course  that  the 
realization  of  such  an  idea  was  only  possible  within 
the  sphere  of  what  is  known  as  special  revelation. 
Indeed,  special  revelation  of  the  Divine  will,  through 
Divinely  chosen  organs,  to  Divinely  appointed 
executive  agents,  is,  itself,  the  very  essence  of  the 
idea  of  a  theocracy. 

That  the  foregoing  is  the  OT  idea  of  God's  rela- 
tion to  His  people  is  admitted  to  be  a  natural  and 
necessary  implication  from  such  passages  as  Jgs 
8  23;  1'S  8;  cf  12  12;  2  Ch  13  8;  2  S  7  1-17; 
Ps  89  27;  Dt  17  14-20. 

Upon  any  other  view  of  the  origin  of  the  OT  hooks 
than  that  which  has  heretofore  prevailed,  it  is  certainly 
a  remarkable  fact  that  whenever  the  hooks  of  the  OT  were 
written,  and  by  whomsoever  they  may  have  been  written, 
and  whatever  the  kind  or  the  number  of  the  redactions  to 
which  they  may  have  been  subjected,  the  conception — 
the  confessedly  unique  conception — of  a  government 
of  God  such  as  that  described  above  by  Kautzsch  is 
evidenced  by  these  writings  in  all  their  parts.  This 
fact  is  all  the  more  impressive,  in  view  of  the  further  fact 
that  we  do  not  encounter  this  sharply  defined  idea  of  a 
rule  of  (iod  among  men  in  any  other  literature,  ancient 
or  modern.  For  while  the  term  "theocracy"  occurs  in 
modern  literature,  it  is  evidently  used  in  a  much  lower 
sense.  It  is  further  worth  remarking  that  this  OT  idea 
of  the  true  nature  of  God's  rule  in  Israel  has  only  to  be 


TIIK  IXTFRXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Theodotion 
Thess.  1st  Ep.  to 

fully  apprehended  for  it  to  become  obvious  that  many  of 
the  alleged  analogies  between  the  OT  prophet  and  the 
modern  preacher,  reformer  and  statesman  are  wholly 
lacking  in  any  really  solid  foundation. 

\Y.    M.    McPHEETERS 

THEODOTION,  the-o-do'shi-un.  Sec  LAX- 
GUAGK  OF  THE  XT;  SKPTUACIXT. 

THEODOTUS,  thn-od'o-tus  (0€oSoTos,   Theod- 

o/o.s) : 

(1)  One  of  the   three  ambassadors  sent   by    the 
Syrian   general   Xicanor   to   Judas  to  make  peace 
(2  Mace  14  19). 

(2)  One    who    plotted    to    assassinate    Ptolemy 
Philopator,  but  was  prevented  by  a  Jew,  Dositheos 
(3  Mace  1  2f). 

THEOLOGY,  thr-ol'o-ji.  See  BIBLICAL  THK- 
OLOGY;  JOIIAX.MM;  THKOLOGY;  PATLIMO  THK- 
OLOGY. 

THEOPHILUS,  the-of'i-lus  (0eo<{>i.Xos,  Thanifii- 
los,  "loved  of  Clod"):  The  one  1o  whom  St.  Luke 
addressed  his  Gospel  and  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles 
(cf  Lk  1  3;  Acts  1  1).  It  has  been  suggested  that 
Theophilus  is  merely  a  generic  term  for  all  Chris- 
tians, but.  the  epithet  ''most  excellent"  implies  it 
was  applied  by  St.  Luke  to  a  definite  person,  prob- 
ably a  Rom  official,  whom  he  held  in  high  respect. 
Theophilus  may  have  been  the  presbyter  who  took 
part  in  sending  the  letter  from  the  Corinthians  to 
St.  Paul,  given  in  the  "Act a  Pauli"  (cf  Hennecke, 
Neutestamentliche  Apolcri/phcn,  37S).  There  is 
also  a  magistrate  Theophilus  mentioned  in  the 
"Acts  of  St.  James"  as  being  converted  by  St. 
James  on  his  way  to  India  (cf  Budge,  Tin-  Con- 
tendings  of  the  Apostles,  II,  299  i,  but  these  and 
other  identifications,  together  with  other  attempts 
to  trace  out  the  further  history  of  the  original 
Theophilus,  are  without  sufficient  evidence  for  their 
establishment  (cf  also  Knowling  in  E.r /><>.-<  (ir  7Y.s7., 
II,  49-51).  C.  M.  KERB 

THERAS,  the'ras  (©t'pa,  T-hera):  The  river  by 
which  the  company  assembled  in  preparation  for 
the  march  to  Jems  under  Ezra  (1  Esd  8  41.61). 
In  E/r  8  21.31  the  name  of  the  river  is  Ahava. 
Possibly  the  place  is  represented  by  the  modern 
///'/  on  the  Euphrates;  but  no  certain  identification 
is  possible. 

THERMELETH,  thur'mc-leth  (0€P(itX€9,  Thvr- 
melctti  [1  Esd  5  30]).  See  TEL-MELAH. 

THESSALONIANS,  thes-a-lo'ni-anz,  THE 
FIRST  EPISTLE  OF  PAUL  TO  THE: 

I.     IMPORTANCE   OF  THE   EPISTLE 

II.       ClIUTMSTANCKS        OF        THE        FOUNDING        OF        THE 

CHURCH 

1.  Luke's  Narrative  in  Acts 

2.  Confirmation    of     Luke's     Narrative     in     the 
Epistle 

III.  CONDITIONS   IN   THE   THESSALONIAN    CHUBCH    AS 
INDICATED   IN  THE   LKTTKK 

IV.  ANALYSIS   OF   THE  EPISTLE 

1.  Paul's    Past   and    Present   Relations    with    the 
Thessalonians  and  His  Love  for  Them 

2.  Exhortations  against  Vice,   and    Comfort   and 
Warning  in  View  of  the  Coming  of  Christ 

V.     DOCTRINAL  IMPLICATIONS   OF  THE   EPISTLE 
VI.     THE    EPISTLE'S    REVELATIONS    OF   PAUL'S    CHAR- 
ACTERISTICS 
LITERATURE 

/.  The  Importance  of  the  Epistle. — The  letter 
is  esp.  important  as  a  witness  to  the  content  of  the 
earliest  Gospel,  on  account  of  its  date  and  it  a 
well-nigh  unchallenged  authenticity.  According  to 
Harnack  it  was  written  in  the  year  48  AD;  accord- 
ing to  Zahn,  in  the  year  53.  It  is  likely  that^  these 
two  dates  represent  the  extreme  limits.  We  are 
thus  justified  in  saying  with  confidence  that  we  have 


2966 


before  us  a  document  that  could  not  have  been 
written  more  than  24  years,  and  may  very  easily 
have  been  written  but  19  years,  after  the  ascension 
of  Our  Lord.  This  is  a  fact  of  great  interest  in 
view  of  the  contention  that  the  Jesus  of  the  four 
Gospels  is  a  product  of  the  legend-making  propensity 
of  devout  souls  in  the  latter  part  of  the  1st  cent. 
When  we  remember  that  Paul  was  converted  more 
than  14  years  before  the  writing  of  the  Epp.,  and 
that  he  tells  us  that  his  conversion  was  of  such  an 
overwhelming  nature  as  to  impel  him  in  a  straight 
course  from  which  he  never  varied,  and  when  we 
note  that  at  the  end  of  14  years  Peter  and  John, 
having  fully  heard  the  gospel  which  he  preached, 
had  no  corrections  to  offer  (Gal  1  11—2  10,  esp. 
2  6-10),  we  see  that  the  view  of  Christ  and  His 
message  given  in  this  Ep.  traces  itself  back  into  the 
very  presence  of  the  most  intimate  friends  of  Jesus. 
It  is  not  meant  by  this  that  the  words  of  Paul  or 
the  forms  of  his  teaching  are  reproductions  of  things 
Jesus  said  in  the  clays  of  His  flesh,  but  rather  that 
the  conception  which  is  embodied  in  the  Ep.  of  the 
person  of  Christ  and  of  His  relation  to  the  Father, 
and  of  His  relation  also  to  the  church  and  to  human 
destiny,  is  rooted  in  Christ's  own  self-revelation. 

//.  Circumstances  of  the  Founding  of  the 
Church. — For  the  founding  of  the  church  we  have 

two  sources  of  information,  the  Book  of 
I.Luke's  Acts  and  the  Ep.  itself.  Luke's  narra- 
Narrative  tive  is  found  in  Acts  17.  Here  we  are 
in  Acts  told  that  Paul,  after  leaving  Philippi, 

began  his  next  siege  against  intrenched 
paganism  in  the  great  market  center  of  Thessalonica. 
I  le  went  first  into  t  he  synagogues  of  the  Jews,  and  for 
three  Sabbath  days  reasoned  with  them  out  of  the 
Scriptures.  Some  of  them,  Luke  tells  us,  "were  per- 
suaded, and  consorted  with  Paul  and  Silas;  and  of 
the  devout-  Greeks  a  great  multitude,  and  of  the 
chief  women  not  a  few."  This  very  nat  urally  excited 
the  jealousy  of  the  Jews  who  found  themselves  losing 
the  social  prestige  that  came  from  having  a  large 
number  of  Greeks,  including  some  of  the  nobility, 
resorting  to  them  for  instruction.  Accordingly, 
they  raised  a  mob  of  the  worst  men  in  town  and 
brought  the  leading  members  of  the  church  before 
the  magistrate.  These  brethren,  Jason  and  cer- 
tain others,  who  seem  to  have  been  men  of  some 
property,  were  compelled  to  give  bond  to  preserve 
the  peace,  and  the  intense  feeling  against  Paul  made 
it  necessary  for  him,  for  the  sake  of  these  brethren 
as  well  as  for  his  personal  safety,  to  flee  from  the 

The  historicity  of  Luke's  story  of  the  founding 
of  the  church  is  strongly  supported  by  the  text 

of  the  Ep.  Paul,  for  instance,  notes 
2.  Con-  that  the  work  in  Thessalonica  began 
firmationof  after  they  had  been  shamefully  en- 
Luke's  Nar- treated  at  Philippi  (1  Thess  2  2). 
rative  in  He  bears  witness  also  in  the  same 
the  Epistle  verse  to  the  conflict  in  the  midst  of 

which  the  Thessalonian  church  was 
founded  (see  also  2  14).  Paul's  exhortation  to 
salute  all  the  brethren  with  a  holy  kiss,  his  solemn 
!  adjuration  that  this  letter  be  read  unto  all  the 
brethren  (5  26.27),  and  his  exhortation  to  despise 
not  prophesying  (5  20)  are  harmonious  with  Luke's 
account  of  the  very  diverse  social  elements  out  of 
which  the  church  was  formed:  diversities  that 
would  very  easily  give  rise  to  a  disposition  on 
the  part  of  the  more  aristocratic  to  neglect  the 
cordial  greetings  to  the  poorer  members,  and  to 
despise  their  uncouth  testimonies  to  the  grace 
of  God  that  had  come  to  them  (Acts  17  4). 

Paul  tells  us  that  he  was  forced  to  labor  for  his 
daily  bread  at  Thessalonica  (1  Thess  2  9).  Luke 
does  not  make  mention  of  this,  but  he  tells  us  of 
his  work  at  tent-making  in  the  next  town  where  he 


20fi7 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


made  a  considerable  stop  (Acts  18  1-3),  and  thus 
each  statement  makes  the  other  probable. 

Perhaps,  however,  the  most  marked  corroboration 
of  the  Acts  which  we  have  in  the  letter  is  the  general 
harmony  of  its  revelation  of  the  character  of  Paul  with 
that  of  the  Acts.  The  reminiscences  of  Paul's  work 
among  them  (1  Thess  2  1-12)  correspond,  for  instance, 
in  a  marked  way,  in  essence  though  not  in  style  and 
vocabulary,  with  Luke's  report  of  Paul's  account  of  the 
method  and  spirit  of  his  work  at  Ephesus  (Acts  20  17- 
35).  This,  however,  is  only  one  of  many  correspondences 
which  could  be  pointed  out  and  which  will  at  once  be 
evident  to  anyone  who  will  read  the  letter,  and  then  go 
over  Acts  13-28. 

It  may  seem  irrelevant  thus  to  emphasize  the  his- 
toricity of  Acts  in  an  art.  on  Thessalonians,  but  the 
Witness  of  the  Kp.  to  the  historicity  of  the  Gospels  and 
of  Acts  is  for  the  present  moment  one  of  its  most  impor- 
tant functions. 

///.  Conditions  in  the  Thessalonian  Church  as 
Indicated  in  the  Letter. — A  NT  ep.  bears  a  close 
resemblance  to  a  doctor's  prescription.  It  relates 
itself  to  the  immediate  situation  of  the  person  to 
whom  it  is  directed.  If  we  study  it  we  can  infer 
with  a  great  deal  of  accuracy  the  tendencies,  good  or 
bad,  in  the  church.  What  revelation  of  the  con- 
ditions at  Thessalonica  is  made  in  the  First  Ep.? 
Plainly,  affairs  on  the  whole  are  in  a  very  good  state, 
esp.  when  one  takes  into  account  the  fact  that  most, 
of  the  members  had  been  out  of  heathenism  but  a 
few  months.  They  were  so  notably  devoted  to  God 
that  they  were  known  all  over  Macedonia  as 
examples  to  the  church  (1  Thess  1  7).  In  particular 
the  Christian  grace  of  cordial  good  will  toward  all 
believers  flourished  among  them :  a  grace  which  they 
doubtless  had  good  opportunity  to  exercise  in  this 
great  market  town  to  which  Christians  from  all 
parts  would  resort  on  business  errands  and  where 
there  would  be  constant  demands  on  their  hospi- 
tality (4  9-10). 

There  were,  however,  shadows  in  the  picture. 
Some  persons  were  whispering  dark  suspicions 
against  Paul.  Perhaps,  as  Zahn  suggests,  they 
were  the  unbelieving  husbands  of  the  rich  ladies  who 
had  become  members  of  the  church.  It  was  in 
answer  to  these  criticisms  that  he  felt  called  upon 
to  say  that  he  was  not  a  fanatic  nor  a  moral  leper, 
nor  a  deceiver  (2  3).  When  he  is  so  careful  to 
remind  them  that  he  was  not  found  at  any  time 
wearing  a  cloak  of  covetousness,  but  rather  went  to 
the  extreme  of  laboring  night  and  day  that  he 
might  not  be  chargeable  to  any  of  them  (2  9), 
we  may  be  sure  that  the  Christians  were  hearing 
constant  jibes  about  their  money-making  teacher 
who  had  already  worked  his  scheme  with  the  Philip- 
pians  so  successfully  that  they  had  twice  sent  him 
a  contribution  (Phil  4  16).  Paul's  peculiar  sensi- 
tiveness on  this  point  at  Corinth  (1  Cor  9  14.15) 
was  possibly  in  part  the  result  of  his  immediately 
preceding  experiences  at  Thessalonica. 

One  wonders  whether  Greece  was  not  peculiarly 
infested  at  this  time  with  wandering  philosophers 
and  religious  teachers  who  beat  their  way  as  best 
they  could,  living  on  the  credulity  of  the  unwary. 

Paul's  anxiety  to  assure  them  of  his  intense  desire 
to  see  them  and  his  telling  of  his  repeated  attempts 
to  come  to  them  (1  Thess  2  17-20)  show  rather 
plainly  also  that  his  absence  had  given  rise  to  the 
suspicion  that  he  was  afraid  to  come  back,  or  indeed 
quite  indifferent  about  revisiting  them.  "We  would 
fain  have  come  unto  you,"  he  says,  "I  Paul  once 
and  again;  and  Satan  hindered  us." 

Some  also  were  saying  that  Paul  was  a  flatterer 
(2  5),  who  was  seeking  by  this  means  to  carry  out 
unworthy  ends.  This  sneer  indeed,  after  the  read- 
ing of  the  letter,  would  come  quite  naturally  to 
the  superficial  mind.  Paul's  amazing  power  to 
idealize  his  converts  and  see  them  in  the  light  of 
their  good  intentions  and  of  the  general  goal  and 


Theodotion 
Thess,  1st  Ep.  to 


trend  of  their  minds  is  quite  beyond  the  apprecia- 
tion of  a  shallow  and  sardonic  soul. 

More  than  this,  we  can  see  plain  evidence  that 
the  church  was  in  danger  of  the  chronic  heathen 
vice  of  unchastity  (4  3-8).  The  humble  members 
also,  in  particular,  were  in  danger  of  being  in- 
toxicated by  the  new  intellectual  and  spiritual 
life  into  which  they  had  been  inducted  by  the 
gospel,  and  were  spending  their  time  in  religious 
meetings  to  the  neglect  of  their  daily  labor  (4  10- 
12).  Moreover,  some  who  had  lost  friends  since 
their  bapt  ism  were  mourning  lest  at  the  second  com- 
ing of  Christ  these  who  had  fallen  asleep  would  not 
share  in  the  common  glory  (4  13-18).  This  is  a 
quaint  proof  of  the  immaturity  of  their  view  of 
Christ,  as  though  a  physical  accident  could  separate 
from  His  love  and  care.  There  was  likewise,  as 
suggested  above,  the  ever-present  danger  of  social 
cliques  among  the  members  (5  13. 15.20. 2(5.27). 
It  is  to_  this  condition  of  things  that  Paul  pours 
forth  this  amazingly  vital  and  human  Ep. 

IV.  Analysis    of    the    Epistle. — The     letter     may     be 
divided  in  several  ways.     Perhaps  as  simple  a  way  as  any 
is  that  which  separates  it  into  two  main  divisions. 

First,  Paul's  past  and  present  relations  with  the  Thessa- 
lonians, and  his  love  for  them  (1  1 — 3  13): 

(1)  Greeting  and  Thanksgiving  (1   1-10). 

(2)  Paul  reminds   them  of  the  character  of   his   life 

and  ministry  among  them  (2  1-12). 
Panl'q  W   The  sufferings  of  the  Thessalonians 

T,'  .    ,.  the    same    as    those    endured     by    their 

Relations       Jewish  brethren   (2  13-1(5). 

withThessa-      (4)   Paul's  efforts  to  see  them  (2  17-20). 

Innianq  (^)   Paul's     surrender     of     his     beloved 

helper  in  order  to  learn  the  state  of  the 
Thessalonian    church,    and    his    joy    over 

the  good  news  which  Timothy  brought  (3   1-13). 

Second,     exhortations     auainst     vice,     and     comfort     and 

warning  in  view  of  the  coming  of  Christ   (4   1—5.28)  : 

(1)  Against  gross  vice    (4  1-8). 

(2)  Against  idleness  (4  9-12). 

(3)  Concerning   those   who  have   fallen 
asleep  (4  13-18). 

(4)  Concerning  the  true  way  to  watch 
for  the  Coming  (5   1-11). 

(5)  Sundry  exhortations  (5   12-28). 

V.  Doctrinal  Implications  of  the    Epistle. — The    Ep. 
to    the    Thess   is    not  a   doctrinal  letter.     Paul's  great 
teaching    concerning    salvation    by   faith    alone,    apart 
from  the  works  of  the  Law,  is  not  sharply  defined  or  baldly 
stated,  and  the  doctrine  of  the  cross  of  Christ  as  central 
in   Christianity  is   here  implied   rather  than   enforced. 
Almost    the    only    doctrinal    statement    is    that    which 
assures  them  that  those  of  their  number  who  had  fallen 
asleep  would  not  in  any  wise  be  shut  out  from  the  rewards 
and  glories  at  Christ's  second  coming   (1  Thess  4  13- 
18).     But  while  the  main  doctrinal  positions   of  Paul 
are  not  elaborated  or  even  stated  in  the  letter,  it  may 
safely  be  said  that  the  Ep.  could  scarcely  have  been 
written  by  one  who  denied  those  teachings.     And  the 
fact  that  we  know  that  shortly  before  or  shortly  after 
Paul  wrote  the  Ep.  to  the  Gal,  and  the  fact  that  he  so 
definitely  describes  his  attitude  at  this  very  time  toward 
the  preaching  of  the  cross  of  Christ,  in  his  reminiscences 
in  1  Cor  (see  esp.  1  Cor  2  1-5),  show  how  foolish  it  is  to 
assume  that  an  author  has  not  yet  come  to  a  position 
because  he  does  not   constantly  obtrude  it  in  all  that 
he  writes. 

The  Ep.,  however,  bears  abundant  evidence  to  the 
fact  that  this  contemporary  of  Jesus  had  seen  in  the 
life  and  character  and  resurrection  of  Jesus  that  which 
caused  him  to  exalt  Him  to  Divine  honors,  to  mention 
Him  in  the  same  breath  with  God  the  Father,  and  to 
expect  His  second  coming  in  glory  as  the  event  which 
would  determine  the  destiny  of  all  men  and  be  the  final 
goal  of  history.  As  such  the  letter,  whose  authenticity 
is  now  practically  unquestioned,  is  a  powerful  proof  that 
Jesus  was  a  personality  as  extraordinary  as  the  Jesus 
of  the  first  three  Gospels.  And  even  the  Christ  of  the 
Fourth  Gospel  is  scarcely  more  exalted  than  He  who 
now  with  God  the  Father  constitutes  the  spiritual  atmos- 
phere in  which  Christians  exist  (1  Thess  1  1),  and  who 
at  the  last  day  will  descend  from  heaven  with  a  shout 
and  with  the  voice  of  an  archangel  and  the  trump  of 
God,  and  cause  the  dead  in  Christ  to  rise  from  their 
tombs  to  dwell  forever  with  Himself  (4  10.17). 

VI.  The  Epistle's  Revelations  of  Paul's  Char- 
acteristics.— \Ve  notice  in  the  letter  the  extreme 
tactfulness  of  Paul.     He  has  some  plain  and  humili- 
ating warnings  to  give,  but  he  precedes  them  in 
each  case  with  affectionate  recognition  of  the  good 
qualities  of  the  brethren.     Before  he  warns  against 


2.  Exhorta- 
tions, Com- 
fort and 
Warning 


Thess.2dEp.to     THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2968 


gross  vice  he  explains  that  he  is  simply  urging  them 
to  continue  in  the  good  way  they  are  in.  Before 
he  urges  them  to  go  to  work  he  cordially  recognizes 
the  love  that  has  made  them  linger  so  long  and  so 
frequently  at  the  common  meeting-places.  And 
when  in  connection  with  his  exhortations  about  the 
second  coming  he  alludes  to  the  vice  of  drunkenness, 
he  first  idealizes  them  as  sons  of  the  light  and  of  the 
day  to  whom,  of  course,  the  drunken  orgies  of  those 
who  are  ''of  the  night"  would  be  unthinkable. 
Thus  by  a  kind  of  spiritual  suggestion  he  starts  them 
in  the  right  way. 

LTTKR  ATI-HE. — Bishop  Alexander,  the  Speaker's  Comm. 
(published  in  America  under  the  title,  The  Hible  Comm., 
and  bound  with  most  excellent  comms.  oil  all  of  the 
Pauline  Kpp.),  New  York,  Seribners;  Milligan,  The. 
Epp.  to  tin-  Thess  (the  C,r  text  with  Intro  and  notes), 
London,  Macmillan;  MolFatt,  The  Expositor's  Cr  Test. 
(bound  with  comms.  by  various  authors  on  the  Pastoral 
Kpp.,  Philcrn,  He  and. I  as).  New  York,  Dodd,  Mead  &  Co. ; 
Frame,  ICC,  \e\v  York,  Seribners;  Stevens,  An  Amerienn 
Comm.  o,,  the  \  T .  Philadelphia,  American  Bapt  ist- Publi- 
cation Society;  Adeney,  The  .Ynr  Century  Hible,  "1  and 
2  Thess"  and  "Cal,"  New  York,  Henry  Krowde;  Kindlay, 
"The  Kpp.  to  the  Thess."  Cambridge  Hible  for  ,SY/,m,/x  (u,d 
Colli'i/ex,  .Yew  York,  Pulnains;  James  Denney,  "Tho  Epp. 
to  the  Tliess,"  Expositor's  liilile.  New  York,  Doran ;  the 
two  latter  are  esp.  recommended  as  inexpensive,  popular 
and  yet  scholarly  comms.  The  Catnbriilt/e  Itibleix  a  verse- 
by-verse  comm.,  and  Professor  Denney  on  "Thess"  in 
Expositor's  Hible  is  one  of  the  most  vital  and  vigorous 
pieces  of  houiilctical  exposition  known  to  the  present 
writer. 

ROLLIN  HOUGH  WALKER 

THESSALONIANS,  THE  SECOND  EPISTLE 
OF  PAUL  TO  THE: 

I.     IMPORTANCE  OF  STTDYINM;    1   TIIKSS   A  \i>  2  THKSS 

ToiiKTII  Kit 

IT.     AUTHENTICITY 

1.  Arguments  against  the  Pauline  Authorship 

2.  Arguments  for  the  Pauline  Authorship 
III.     TIIK   MAN   or   SIN' 

1.  Primary  Reference 

2.  Permanent   Value   of   the   Teaching  concerning 
the  Man  of  Sin 

TV.     PAUL'S  KXUOKTATION  TO  QTIKT  INDTSTHV 
LITERATURE 

I.  Importance  of  Studying  1  Thess  and  2  Thess 
Together. — Those  who  hold  to  the  Pauline  author- 
ship of  the  Ep.  unite  in  ascribing  it  to  a  time  but 
little  subsequent  to  the  writing  of  the  First  Letter. 
It  is  simply  a  second  prescription  for  the  same  case, 
made  after  discovering  that  SOUK;  certain  stubborn 
symptoms  had  not  yielded  to  the  first  treatment. 
2  Tliess  should  be  studied  in  connection  with  1 
Thess  because  it  is  only  from  an  understanding  of 
the  First  Ep.  and  the  situation  that  it  revealed  that 
one  can  fully  grasp  the  significance  of  the  Second. 
And  more  than  that,  the  solution  of  the  problem  as 
to  whether  Paul  wrote  the  Second  Letter  is  likewise 
largely  dependent  on  our  knowledge  of  the  First. 
It  would,  for  instance,  be  much  harder  to  believe 
that  Paul  had  written  2  Thess  if  we  did  not  know 
that  before  writing  it  he  had  used  the  tender  and 
tactful  methods  of  treatment  which  we  find  in  the 
First  Letter.  It  is  as  though  one  should  enter  a 
sick  room  where  the  physician  is  resorting  to  some 
rather  strong  measures  with  a  patient.  One  is 
better  prepared  to  judge  the  wisdom  of  the  treat- 
ment if  he  knows  the  history  of  the  case,  and  dis- 
covers that  gentler  methods  have  already  been  tried 
by  the  physician  without  success. 

//.  Authenticity. — The  different  treatment  of  the 
subject  of  the  second  coming  of  Christ,  the  different 
emotional    tone,     and     the     different 
1.  Argu-         relationships   between    Paul    and    the 
ments  church  presupposed  in  the  First  and 

against  Second  Epp.,  have  been  among  the 

Pauline  causes  which  have  led  to  repeated 
Authorship  questionings  of  the  Pauline  author- 
ship of  2  Thess.  Scholars  argue,  in  the 
first  place,  that  the  doctrine  concerning  the  coming 
of  Christ  which  we  find  in  the  Second  Letter  is  not 
only  differently  phrased  but  is  contradictory  to  that 


in  the  First.  We  get  the  impression  from  the  First 
Letter  that  the  Day  of  the  Lord  is  at  hand.  It  will 
come  as  a  thief  in  the  night  (1  Thess  5  2),  and  one 
of  the  main  parts  of  Christian  duty  is  to  expect  it 
(1  Thess  1  9.10).  In  the  Second  Letter,  however, 
the  writer  urges  strongly  against  any  influence  that 
will  deceive  them  into  believing  that  the  Day  of  the 
Lord  is  at  hand,  because  it  will  not  be  "except  the 
falling  away  come  first,  and  the  man  of  sin  be  re- 
vealed, the  son  of  perdition,  he  that  opposeth  and 
exalt eth  himself  against  all  that  is  called  Clod  or 
that  is  worshipped"  (2  Thess  2  1-4). 

Again  very  plainly  also,  say  the  critics,  a  differ- 
ent relation  exists  between  the  writer  and  the 
church  at  Thessalonica.  In  the  First  Letter  he 
coaxes;  in  the  Second  Letter  he  commands  (1  Thess 
4  1.2.9-12;  61-11;  2  Thess  2  1-4;  3  (5.12-14). 
Moreover,  the  whole  emotional  tone  of  the  Second 
Let  t  er  is  different  from  that  of  the  First.  The  First 
Ep.  is  a  veritable  geyser  of  joyous,  grateful  affection 
and  tenderness.  The  Second  Letter,  while  it  also 
contains  expressions  of  the  warmest  affection  and 
appreciation,  is  quite  plainly  not  written  under  the 
same  pressure  of  tender  emotion.  Here,  say  the 
critics,  is  a  lower  plane  of  inspiration.  Here  arc 
Paul's  words  and  phrases  and  plain  imitations  of 
Paul's  manner,  but  here  most  emphatically  is  not 
the  flood  tide  of  Paul's  inspiration.  Moreover,  the 
lurid  vision  of  the  battle  between  the  man  of  sin 
and  the  returning  Messiah  in  the  Second  Letter  is 
different  in  form  and  coloring  from  anything  which 
we  find  elsewhere  in  Paul.  These,  and  other  con- 
siderations have  led  many  to  assume  that  the  letter 
was  writ  ten  by  a  hand  other  than  that  of  the  Apostle 
to  the  (lent iles. 

The  hypothesis,  however,  that  Paul  was  not  the 
author  of  the  Ep.,  while  it  obviates  certain  diffi- 
culties, raises  many  more.  Into  a 
2.  Argu-  statement  of  these  difficulties  we  will 
ments  for  not  go  here,  but  refer  the  reader  to  a 
the  Pauline  brief  and  scholarly  putting  of  them  in 
Authorship  Peake's  Critical  Intro  to  the  NT,  12-16 
(Xew  York,  Scribncrs,  1910). 

There  is  accordingly  today  a  manifest  tendency 
among  all  scholars,  including  those  in  the  more 
radical  camps,  to  return  to  the  traditional  position 
concerning  the  authorship.  The  following  are  some 
of  the  positive  arguments  for  the  authenticity: 

As  for  the  opposing  views  of  the  coming  of  Christ 
in  the  two  Epp.,  it  is  to  be  noted  that  precisely  the 
same  superficial  contradiction  occurs  in  Our  Lord's 
own  teaching  on  this  same  subject  (Mt  24  6.23.24. 
25.26;  Lk  12  35.40).  Jesus  exhorts  Hia  disciples 
to  watch,  for  in  such  an  hour  as  they  think  not  the 
Son  of  man  comet h,  and  yet  at  the  same  time  and 
in  the  same  connection  warns  them  that  when  they 
see  certain  signs  they  should  not  be  troubled,  for 
the  end  is  not  yet.  Paul,  brooding  over  the  sub- 
ject after  writing  the  First  Letter,  might  easily 
have  come  strongly  to  see  the  obverse  side  of  the 
shield.  The  apostle  built  his  theology  upon  the 
tradition  which  had  come  from  Jesus  as  interpreted 
by  its  practical  effects  upon  his  converts,  and  his 
mind  was  quick  to  counteract  any  danger  due  to 
overemphasis  or  wrong  inferences.  He  was  not 
nearly  as  eager  for  a  consistent  ly  stated  doctrine  as 
he  was  for  a  doctrine  that  made  for  spiritual  life 
and  efficiency.  During  the  fierce  persecutions  at  the 
beginning  of  the  movement  in  Thessalonica,  the 
comfort  of  the  thought  of  the  swift  coining  of  Christ 
was  in  need  of  emphasis,  but  as  soon  as  the  doctrine 
was  used  as  an  excuse  for  unhealthful  religious 
excitement  the  minds  of  the  disciples  must  be  fo- 
cused on  more  prosaic  and  less  exciting  aspects  of 
reality. 

That  Paul  assumes  a  commanding  and  peremptory 
attitude  in  the  Second  Letter  which  we  do  not  find  so 


29(H) 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Thess,2dEP.to 


plainly  asserted  in  the  First  is  readily  admitted.  Why 
should  not  the  First  Letter  have  had  its  intended  effect 
upon  the  Thessalonian  church  as  a  whole?  And  if  Paul 
received  word  that  his  gracious  and  tactful  message  had 
carried  with  it  the  conviction  of  the  dominant  elements 
of  the  church,  but  that  certain  groups  had  continued  to 
be  fanatical  and  disorderly,  we  can  easily  see  how,  with 
the  main  current  of  the; 'church  behind  him,  he  would 
have  dared  to  use  more  drastic  methods  with  the  offend- 
ing members. 

It  is  also  readily  admitted  that  tlio  Second  Letter- 
is  not  so  delightful  and  heart-warming  as  the  First. 
It  was  plainly  not  written  in  a  mood  of  such  high 
emotional  elevation.  But  the  question  may  be 
raised  as  to  whether  the  coaxing,  caressing  lone  of 
the  First  Ep.  would  have  been  appropriate  in  hand- 
ling the  lazy  and  fanatical  elements  of  the  church 
after  it  had  persisted  in  disregarding  his  tender  and 
kindly  admonitions.  Jesus'  stern  words  to  the 
Pharisees  in  Mt  23  are  not  so  inspiring  as  Jn  14, 
but  they  were  the  words  and  the  only  words 
that  were  needed  at  the  t  irne.  "Let  not  your  heart 
be  troubled"  would  not  be  inspired  if  delivered  to 
hypocrites.  Furthermore,  we  are  not  called  upon 
to  assume  that  Paul  at  all  times  lived  in  the  same 
mood  of  emotional  exaltation.  Indeed  his  Epp. 
abound  with  assertions  that  this  was  not  the  case 
(2  Cor  1  8;  1  Thess  3  9),  and  it  is  unreasonable 
to  expect  him  always  to  write  in  the  same  key.  It 
must  be  added,  however,  that  the  suggestion  that 
the  Second  Ep.  is  stern  may  easily  be  overdone. 
If  1  Thess  were  not  before  us,  it  would  be  the  tender- 
ness of  Paul's  treatment  of  the  church  which  would 
most  impress  us. 

Ilarnaok  has  recently  added  the  weight  of  his  author- 
ity to  the  argument  for  the  Pauline  authorship  of  the 
letter,  lie  thinks  that  then;  were  two  distinct  societies 
in  Thessalonica,  the  one  perhaps  meeting  in  the  Jewish 
quarter  and  composed  chiefly  of  Jewish  Christians,  and 
the  other  composed  of  Greeks  meeting  in  some  other  part 
of  the  city.  In  addition  to  the  probability  that  this 
would  bo  true,  which  arises  from  the  very  diverse  social 
classes  out  of  which  the  church  was  formed  (Acts  174), 
and  the  size  of  the  city,  ho  points  to  the  adjuration  in  the 
First  Letter  (1  Thess  5  27)  that  this  Ep.  be  read  unto 
all  the  brethren,  as  a  proof  that  there  was  a  coterie  in 
the  church  that  met  separately  a.nd  that  might,  easily 
have  been  neglected  by  the  rest,  just  as  the  Greeks  in 
Jerus  were  neglected  in  the  daily  ministration  (Acts  6  1). 
Ho  thinks  that  the  Second  Letter  was  probably  directed 
to  the  Jewish  element  of  the  church. 

It  is  to  be  noted  also  that  Professor  Moffatt  (Intro  to 
the  Lit.  of  the  .\T,  70  ff),  who  calls  in  question  the  authen- 
ticity of  nearly  all  of  the  books  of  the  XT  that  any 
reputable  scholars  now  attack,  finds  no  sufHciont  reason 
to  question  the  Pauline  authorship  of  2  Thess. 

///.  The  Man  of  Sin. — The  question  as  to  whom 
or  what  Paul  refers  to  in  2  1-12,  when  he  speaks 

of  the  man  of  sin,  whose  revelation  ig 
1.  Primary  to  precede  the  final  manifestation  of 
Reference  Christ,  has  divided  scholars  during  all 

the  Christian  centuries.  (For  a  good 
discussion  of  the  history  of  the  interpretation  of 
this  difficult  section,  see  Findlay,  "I  arid  II  Thess," 
Cambridge  Bible,  170-SO.)  The  reason  why  each 
age  has  had  its  fresh  interpretation  identifying  the 
man  of  sin  with  the  blasphemous  powers  of  evil  then 
most  active  is  the  fact  that  the  prophecy  has  never 
yet  found  its  complete  accomplishment.  The  man 
of  sin  has  never  been  fully  revealed,  and  the  Christ 
lias  never  finally  destroyed  him. 

But  Paul  says  that  the  mystery  of  iniquity 
already  works  (2  7),  and  he  tells  the  church  that  the 
restraining  influence  which  for  the  time  being  held 
it  in  check  is  something  that  ''ye  know"  (2  (i). 
Plainly,  then,  the  evil  power  and  that  which  held  it 
in  check  were  things  quite  familiar  both  to  Paul 
and  to  his  readers.  \Ye  must  therefore  give  the 
prophecy  a  1st -cent,  reference.  The  alternative! 
probably  lies  between  making  the  mystery  of 
iniquity  the  disposition  of  the  Rom  emperor  to  give 
himself  out  as  an  incarnation  of  deity  and  force  all 
men  to  worship  him,  a  tendency  which  was  then 


being  held  in  check  by  Claudius,  but  which  soon 
broke  out  under  Caligula  (see  Peake's  Intro  above 
cited);  or,  on  the  other  hand,  making  the  mystery 
of  iniquity  to  be  some;  peculiar  manifestation  of 
diabolism  which  was  to  break  out  from  the  perse- 
cuting Jewish  world,  and  which  was  then  held  in 
check  by  the  restraining  power  of  the  Rom  govern- 
ment. 

In  favor  of  making  a  blasphemous  Rom  emperor 
the  man  of  sin,  may  be  urged  the  fact  that  it  was 
this  demand  of  the  emperor  for  worship  which 
brought  matters  to  a  crisis  in  the  Horn  world  and 
turned  the  terrific  enginery  of  the  Rorn  empire 
against  Christianity.  And  'it  may  be  argued  that 
it  is  hardly  likely  that  the  temporary  protection 
which  Paul  received  from  the  Rom  government 
prevented  him  from  seeing  that  its  spirit,  was  such 
that  it  must  ultimately  be  ranged  against  Chris- 
tianity. One  may  note  also,  in  arguing  for  the  Rom 
reference  of  the  man  of  sin,  the  figurative  and  enig- 
matic way  in  which  Paul  refers  to  the  opposing 
power,  a  restraint  that  would  be  rendered  necessary 
for  reasons  of  prudence  (of  Mk  13  14,  and  also  the 
cryptograms  used  by  the  author  of  the  Book  of 
R  -v  in  referring  to  Rome).  Paul  has  none  of  this 
reserve  in  referring  to  the  persecuting  Jewish  world 
who  "please  not  God,  and  are  contrary  to  all  men" 
(1  Thess  2  _lo)._  And  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the 
Jews  were  in  disfavor  in  the  Rom  empire,  as  is 
proved  by  the  then  recently  issued  decree  of  Clau- 
dius commanding  all  Jews  to  depart  from  Rome 
(Acts  18  2),  and  by  the  fact  that  to  proclaim  a 
man  a  Jew  helped  at  that  time  to  lash  a  mob  into 
fury  against  him  (Acts  16  20;  19  34),  it  would 
seem  hardly  likely  that  Paul  would  expect  the 
subtle  and  attractive  deception  that  was  to  delude 
the  world  to  come  from  Jerus;  and  particularly 
would  this  seem  unlikely  in  view  of  the  fact  that 
Paul  seems  to  be  familiar  with  Our  Lord's  prophecy 
of  the  swift  destruction  of  Jerus,  as  is  shown  by  his 
assertion  in  1  Thess  2  16,  that  wrath  is  come  upon 
them  to  the  uttermost. 

_  On  the  other  hand,  however,  to  make  the  man  of 
sin  a  person  or  an  influence  coming  from  Judaism 
is  supported  by  the  fact  that  he  is  to  sit  in  the 
temple  of  God,  setting  himself  forth  to  be  God 
(1  Thess  2  4),  and  by  the  fact  that  the  natural 
punishment  for  the  rejection  of  their  Messiah  was 
that  the  Jews  should  be  led  t  o  accept  a  false  Messiah. 
Having  opposed  Him  who  came  in  the  Father's 
name,  they  were  doomed  to  accept  one  who  came 
in  his  own  name.  Again,  and  far  more  important 
than  this,  is  the  fact  that  during  nearly  the  whole  of 
Paul's  life  it  was  the  Rom  empire  that  protected 
him,  and  the  unbelieving  Jews  that  formed  the 
malicious,  cunning  and  powerful  opposition  to  his 
work  and  to  the  well-being  and  peace  of  his  churches, 
and  he  could  very  well  have  felt  that  the  final  in- 
carnation of  evil  was  to  come  from  the  source  which 
had  crucified  the  Christ  and  which  had  thus  far 
been  chiefly  instrumental  in  opposing  the  gospel. 
Moreover,  this  expectation  that  a  mysterious  power 
of  evil  should  arise  out  of  the  Jewish  world  seems 
to  be  in  harmony  with  the  rest  of  the  NT  (Mt  24  5 
23.24;  Rev  11  3.7.8).  It  is  the  second  alternative, 
therefore,  that  is,  with  misgivings,  chosen  by  the 
present  writer. 

It  may  be  objected  that  this  cannot  be  the  tnie  inter- 
pretation, as  it  was  not  fulfilled,  but,  on  the  contrary,  it 
was  Rome  that  became  the  gospel's  most  formidable  foe. 
But  this  type  of  objection,  if  accepted  as  valid,  prac- 
tically puts  a  stop  to  all  attempts  at  a  historical  inter- 
pretation of  prophecy.  It  would  force  us  to  deny  that 
the  prophecies  of  the  OT,  which  are  usually  taken  as 
referring  to  Christ,  referred  to  Him  at  all,  because  plainly 
they  were  not  literally  fulfilled  in  the  time  and  manner 
that  the  prophets  expected  them  to  bo  fulfilled.  It 
would  almost  force  us  to  deny  that  John  the  Baptist  re- 
ferred to  Christ  when  he  heralded  the  coming  of  the  one 


Thessalonica         THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2970 


who  would  burn  up  tho  chaff  with  unquenchable  fire, 
because  as  the  Gospels  tell  us  Jesus  did  not  fulfil  this 
prophecy  in  the  way  John  expected  (Lk  7  19).  See 
MAN  or  SIN. 

Although  Paul's  prediction  concerning  the  man 
of  sin  was  not  literally  fulfilled,  nevertheless  his 
teaching  has  a  permanent  significance. 
2.  Perma-  It  is  always  true  in  every  battle  for 
nent  Value  good  that  the  Son  of  man  does  not 
of  the  come  until  the  falling  away  conies 

Teaching  and  the  man  of  sin  is  revealed.  First, 
concerning  there  is  the  fresh  tide  of  enthusiasm 
the  Man  and  the  promise  of  swift  victory  for 
of  Sin  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  but  soon  there 

is  the  reaction  and  the  renascence 
of  opposition  in  new  and  overwhelming  power. 
The  battle  is  to  the  death.  And  then  above 
the  smoke  of  the  battle  men  see  the  sign  of  the 
coming  of  the  Son  of  man  with  power  and  great 
glory;  the  conviction  floods  (hem  that  after  all  what 
Christ,  stands  for  is  at  the  center  of  the  universe  and 
must  prevail,  and  men  begin  to  recognize  Christ's 
principles  as  though  they  were  natural  law.  This 
action  and  reaction  followed  by  final  victory  takes 
place  in  practically  all  religious  and  reforming  move- 
ments which  involve  the  social  reconstruction  of 
society  according  to  the  principles  of  the  Kingdom. 
It  is  exceedingly  important  that  men  should  be  de- 
livered from  shallow  optimism.  And  this  Ep. 
makes  its  contribution  to  that  good  end. 

IV.  Paul's  Exhortation  to  Quiet  Industry. — The 
exhortation  that  the  brethren  should  work  with 
quietness  and  earn  their  own  bread  (3  12)  is  full  of 
interest  to  those  who  arc  studying  the  psychological 
development  of  the  early  Christians  under  the  in- 
fluence of  the  great  mental  stimulus  that  came  to 
them  from  the  gospel.  Some  were  so  excited  by 
the  new  dignity  that  had  come  to  them  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Christian  society,  and  by  the  new  hopes 
that  had  been  inspired  in  their  minds,  that  they 
considered  themselves  above  the  base  necessity  of 
manual  labor.  This  is  not  an  infrequent  phenomenon 
among  new  converts  to  Christianity  in  heathen 
lands.  Paul  would  have  none  of  it.  Fortunately 
he  could  point  to  his  own  example.  He  not  only 
labored  among  them  to  earn  his  own  livelihood,  but 
he  worked  until  muscles  ached  and  body  rebelled 
(2  Thess  3  8). 

Paul  saw  that  the  gospel  was  to  be  propagated 
chiefly  by  its  splendid  effects  on  the  lives  of  all 
classes  of  society,  and  he  realized  that  almost  the 
first  duty  of  the  church  was  to  be  respected,  and_so 
he  not  only  exhorts  the  individual  members  to  in- 
dependence, but  he  lays  down  the  principle  that  no 
economic  parasite  is  to  be  tolerated  in  the  church. 
"If  any  man  will  not  work,  neither  let  him  eat" 
(3  10).  This  forms  an  important  complement  to 
the  teaching  of  Jesus  (Mt  6  42) :  "Give  to  him  that 
asketh  thee,  and  from  him  that  would  borrow  of 
thee  turn  not  thou  away." 

LITERATURE. — See  under  1  Thess. 

ROLLIN  HOUGH  WALKER 

THESSALONICA,  thes-a-16-nl'ka  (0«o-<raXov£KTi, 
Thessalonikc,  ethnic  Oeo-o-aXoviKevs,  T hcssalonikcils) : 
One  of  the  chief  towns  of  Mace- 
1.  Position  donia  from  Hellenistic  times  down  to 
and  Name  the  present  day.  It  lies  in  40°  40'  N. 
lat.,  and  22°  50'  E.  long.,  at  the 
northernmost  point  of  the  Thermaic  Gulf  (Gulf  of 
Salonica),  a  short  distance  (o  the  E.  of  the  mouth 
of  the  Axiua  (Vardar).  It  is  usually  maintained 
that  the  earlier  name  of  Thessalonica  was  Therma 
or  Therme,  a  town  mentioned  both  by  Herodotus 
(vii.!21ff,  179  ff)  and  by  Thucydides  (i.Gl;  ii.29), 
but  that  its  chief  importance  dates  from  about  315 
BC,  when  the  Macedonian  king  Cassander,  son 
of  Antipater,  enlarged  and  strengthened  it  by  con- 


centrating there  the  population  of  a  number  of 
neighboring  towns  and  villages,  and  renamed  it  after 
his  wife  Thessalonica,  daughter  of  Philip  II  and 
step-sister  of  Alexander  the  Great.  This  name, 
usually  shortened  since  mediaeval  times  into 
Salonica  or  Saloniki,  it  has  retained  down  to  the 
present.  Pliny,  however,  speaks  of  Therma  as  still 
existing  side  by  side  with  Thessalonica  (Ar//,  iv.36), 
and  it  is  possible  that  the  latter  was  an  altogether 
new  foundation,  which  took  from  Therma  a  portion 
of  its  inhabitants  and  replaced  it  as  the  most  impor- 
tant city  on  the  Gulf. 

Thessalonica     rapidly     became     populous     and 

wealthy.       In  the  war  between  Perseus  and  the 

Romans  it  appears  as  the  headquarters 

2.  History     of  the  Macedonian  navy  (Livy  xliv.  10) 

and  when,  after  the  battle  of  Pydna 
(168  BC),  the  Romans  divided  the  conquered 
territory  into  four  districts,  it  became  the  capital  of 
the  second  of  these  (Livy  xlv.29),  while  later,  after 
the  organization  of  the  single  Rom  province  of 
Macedonia  in  1-10  BC,  it  was  the  seat  of  the  gov- 
ernor and  thus  practically  the  capital  of  the  whole 
province.  In  58  BC  Cicero  spent  the  greater  part 
of  his  exile  there,  at  the  house  of  the  quaestor 
Plancius  (I'ro  Plancio  41,  99;  Ep.  Ad  Alt.  iii.8-21). 
In  the  civil  war  between  Caesar  and  Pompey, 
Thessalonica  took  the  senatorial  side  and  formed 
one  of  Pompey's  chief  bases  (49-48  BC),  but  in 
the  final  struggle  of  the  republic,  six  years  later,  it 
proved  loyal  to  Antony  and  Octavian,  and  was 
rewarded  by  receiving  the  status  and  privileges  of  a 
"free  city"  (Pliny,  A77,  iv.36).  ^Strabo,  writing  in 
the  reign  of  Augustus,  speaks  of  it  as  the  most  popu- 
lous town  in  Macedonia  and  the  metropolis  of  the 
province  (vii.323,  330),  and  about  the  same  time 
the  poet  Antipater,  himself  a  native  of  Thessalonica, 
refers  to  the  city  as  ''mother  of  all  Macedon" 
(Jacobs,  Anthol.  Graec.,  II,  p.  98,  no.  14);  in  the  2d 
cent,  of  our  era  Lucian  mentions  it  as  the  greatest 
city  of  Macedonia  (Aw'nns,  46).  It  was  important, 
not  only  as  a  harbor  with  a  large  import  and  export 
trade,  but  also  as  the  principal  station  on  the  great 
Via  Egnatia,  the  highway  from  the  Adriatic  to  the 
Hellespont. 

Paul  visited  the  town,  together  with  Silas  and 
Timothy,  on  his  2d  missionary  journey.     He  had 

been  at  Philippi,  and  traveled  thence 

3.  Paul's       by  the  Egnat ian  Road,  passing  through 
Visit  Amphipolis  and  Apollonia  on  the  way 

(Acts  17  1).  He  found  _  at  Thessa- 
lonica a  synagogue  of  the  Jews,  in  which  for  three 
successive  Sabbaths  he  preached  the  gospel,  basing 
his  message  upon  the  types  and  prophecies  of  the  OT 
Scriptures  (vs  2.3).  Some  of  the  Jews  became 
converts  and  a  considerable  number  of  proselytes 
and  Greeks,  together  with  many  women  of  high 
social  standing  (ver  4).  Among  these  converts 
were  in  all  probability  Aristarchus  and  Secundus, 
natives  of  Thessalonica,  whom  we  afterward  find 
accompanying  Paul  to  Asia  at  the  close  of  his  3d 
missionary  journey  (Acts  20  4).  The  former  of 
them  was,  indeed,  one  of  the  apostle's  most  constant 
companions;  we  find  him  with  Paul  at  Ephesus 
(Acts  19  29)  and  on  his  journey  to  Rome  (Acts  27 
2),  while  in  two  of  his  Epp.,  written  during  his  cap- 
tivity, Paul  refers  to  Aristarchus  as  still  with  him, 
his  fellow-prisoner  (Col  4  10;  Philem  ver  24). 
Gaius,  too,  who  is  mentioned  in  conjunction  with 
Aristarchus,  may  have  been  a  Thessalonian  (Acts 
19  29).  How  long  Paul  remained  at  Thessalonica 
on  his  1st  visit  we  cannot  precisely  determine; 
certainly  we  are  not  to  regard  his  stay  then;  as  con- 
fined to  three  weeks,  and  Ramsay  suggests  that  it 
probably  extended  from  December,  50  AD,  to 
May,  51  AD  (St.  Paul  the  Traveller,  228). _  In  any 
case,  we  learn  that  the  Philippians  sent  him  assist- 


2071 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIRLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA         Thessalonica 


ance  on  two  occasions  during  the  <  line  which  lie  spent 
there  (Phil  4  16),  although  lie  was  "working  night 
and  day"  to  maintain  himself  (1  Thess  2  !); 
2  Thess  3  8).  Paul,  the  great  missionary  strate- 
gist, must  have  seen  that  from  no  other  center  could 
Macedonia  be  permeated  with  the  gospel  so  effect- 
ively as  from  Thessalonica  (1  Thess  1  8). 

But  his  success  roused  the  jealousy  of  the  Jews, 
who  raised  a  commotion  among  the  dregs  of  the  city 
populace  (Acts  17  5).  An  attack  was  made  on 
the  house  of  Jason,  with  whom  the  evangelists 
were  lodging,  and  when  these  were  not  found 
Jason  himself  and  some  of  the  other  converts  were 
dragged  before  the  magistrates  and  accused  of  har- 
boring men  who  had  caused  tumult  throughout  the 
Rom  world,  who  maintained  the  existence  of  another 
king,  Jesus,  and  acted  in  defiance  of  the  imperial 
decrees.  The  magistrates  were  duly  alive  to  the 
seriousness  of  the  accusation,  but,  since  no  evidence 
was  forthcoming  of  illegal  practices  on  the  part  of 
Jason  or  the  other  Christians,  they  released  them 
on  security  (vs  5-9).  Foreseeing  further  trouble  if 
Paul  should  continue  his  work  in  the  town,  the  con- 
verts sent  Paul  and  Silas  (and  possibly  Timothy 
also)  by  night  to  Beroea,  which  lay  off  the  main 
road  and  is  referred  to  by  Cicero  as  an  out-of-the- 
way  town  (oppidum  devium:  in  Pisonem  36).  The 
Beroean  Jews  showed  a  greater  readiness  to  examine 
the  new  teaching  than  those  of  Thessalonica,  and 
the  work  of  the  apostle  was  more  fruitful  there,  both 
among  Jews  and  among  Greeks  (vs  10-13).  But 
the  news  of  this  success  reached  the  Thessalonian 
Jews  and  inflamed  their  hostility  afresh.  Going  to 
Beroea,  they  raised  a  tumult  there  also,  and  made 
it  necessary  for  Paul  to  leave  the  town  and  go  to 
Athens  (vs  14.15). 

Several  points  in  this  account  are  noteworthy  as  illus- 
trating the  strict  accuracy  of  the  narrative  of  the  Acts. 
Philippi  was  a  Rom  town,  military  rather  than  com- 
mercial; hence  we  find  but  few  Jews  there  and  no 
synagogue;  the  magistrates  bear  the  title  of  praetors 
(Acts  16  20.22.35.86.38  RVm)  and  are  attended  by 
lictors  (Acts  16  35.38  RVm) ;  Paul  and  Silas  are  charged 
with  the  introduction  of  customs  which  Romans  may 
not  observe  (ver  21);  they  are  beaten  with  rods  (ver 
22)  and  appeal  to  their  privileges  as  Rom  citizens  (vs 
37.38).  At  Thessalonica  all  is  changed.  We  are  hero 
in  a  Gr  commercial  city  and  a  seaport,  a  "free  city," 
moreover,  enjoying  a  certain  amount  of  autonomy  and 
its  o\vn  constitution.  Here  we  find  a  large  number  of 
resident  Jews  and  a  synagogue.  The  charge  against 
Paul  is  that  of  trying  to  replace  Caesar  by  another  king; 
the  rioters  wish  to  bring  him  before  "the  people,"  i.e. 
the  popular  assembly  characteristic  of  Gr  states,  and 
the  magistrates  of  the  city  bear  the  Gr  name  of  politarehs 
(Acts  17  5-9).  This  title  occurs  nowhere  in  Gr  lit., 
but  its  correctness  is  proved  beyond  possibility  of 
(liiestion  by  its  occurrence  in  a  number  of  inscriptions 
of  this  period,  which  have  come  to  light  in  Thessalonica 
and  the  neighborhood,  and  will  be  found  collected  in 
AJT  (1898,  598)  and  in  M.  G.  Dimitsas,  Ma/ceSoi-ta 
(Makedonia),  422  ff.  Among  them  the  most  famous 
is  the  inscription  engraved  on  the  arch  which  stood  at 
the  western  end  of  the  main  street  of  Salonica  and  was 
called  the  Vardar  Gate.  The  arch  itself,  which  was  per- 
haps erected  to  commemorate  the  victory  of  Philippi, 
though  some  authorities  assign  it  to  a  later  date,  has 
been  removed,  and  the  inscription  is  now  in  the  British 
Museum  (CIO,  1967;  Leake,  Northern  Greece,  III, 
236;  Le  Bas,  Voyage  archeologique,  no.  1357;  Vaux 
Trans.  Royal  Soc.  Lit.,  VIII,  528).  This  proves  that  the 
politarehs  were  six  in  number,  and  it  is  a  curious  coinci- 
dence that  in  it  occur  the  names  Sosipater,  Gains  and 
Secundus,  which  are  borne  by  three  Macedonian  con- 
verts, of  whom  the  first  two  were  probably  Thessalonians 
the  last  certainly. 

The  Thessalonian  church  wras  a  strong  and 
flourishing  one,  composed  of  Gentiles  rather  than 

of  Jews,  if  we  may  judge  from  the 
4.  The  tone  of  the  two  Epp.  addressed  to  its 

Thessa-  members,  the  absence  of  quotations 
Ionian  from  and  allusions  to  the  OT,  and 

Church  the  phrase  "Ye  turned  unto  God 

from  idols"  (1  Thess  1  9;  cf  also 
2  14).  These,  by  common  consent  the  earliest  of 
Paul's  Epp.,  show  us  that  the  apostle  was  eager 


to  revisit  Thessalonica  very  soon  after  his  enforced 
departure:  "once  and  again"  the  desire  to  return 
was  strong  in  him,  but  "S;itan  hindered"  him  (2 
lcS)_ — a  reference  probably  to  the  danger  and  loss  in 
which  such  a  step  would  involve  Jason  and  the 
other  leading  converts.  But  though  himself  pre- 
vented from  continuing  his  work  at  Thessalonica, 
he  sent  Timothy  from  Athens  to  visit  the  church 
and  confirm  the  faith  of  the  Christians  amid  their 
hardships  and  persecutions  (3  2-10).  The  favor- 
able report  brought  back  by  Timothy  was  a  great 
comfort  to  Paul,  and  at  the  same  time  intensified 
his  longing  to  see  his  converts  again  (3  10.11). 
This  desire  was  to  be  fulfilled  more  than  once. 
Almost  certainly  Paul  returned  there  on  his  3d 
missionary  journey,  both  on  his  way  to  Greece 
(Acts  20  1)  and  again  while  he  was  going  thence  to 
Jerus  (ver  3);  it  is  on  this  latter  occasion  that  we 
hear  of  Aristarchus  and  Secundus  accompanying 
him  (ver  4).  Probably  Paul  was  again  in  Thessa- 
lonica after  his  first  imprisonment.  From  the 
Ep.  to  the  Phil  (1  26;  2  24),  written  during  his 
captivity,  we  learn  that  his  intention  was  to  re- 
visit Philippi  if  possible,  and  1  Tim  1  3  records 
a  subsequent  journey  to  Macedonia,  in  the  course 
of  which  the  apostle  may  well  have  made  a  longer 
or  shorter  stay  at  Thessalonica.  The  only  other 
mention  of  the  town  in  the  NT  occurs  in  2  Tim 
4  10,  where  Paul  writes  that  Demas  has  forsaken 
him  and  has  gone  there.  Whether  Demas  was 
a  Thessalonian,  as  some  have  supposed,  cannot  be 
determined. 

For  centuries  the  city  remained  one  of  the  chief 
strongholds  of  Christianity,  and  it  won  for  itself 

the  title  of  "the  Orthodox  City," 
5.  Later  not  only  by  the  tenacity  and  vigor 
History  of  its  resistance  to  the  successive 

attacks  of  various  barbarous  races, 
but  also  by  being  largely  responsible  for  their 
conversion  to  Christianity. 

From  the  middle  of  the  3d  cent.  AD  it  was  entitled 
"metropolis  and  colony,"  and  when  Diocletian  (284-305) 
divided  Macedonia  into  two  provinces,  Thessalonica 
was  chosen  as  the  capital  of  the  first  of  these.  It  was 
also  the  scene  in  390  AD  of  the  famous  massacre  ordered 
by  Theodosius  the  Great,  for  which  Ambrose  excluded 
that  emperor  for  some  months  from  the  cathedral  at 
Milan.  In  253  the  Goths  had  made  a  vain  attempt  to 
capture  the  city,  and  again  in  47!)  Theodorie,  king  of  the 
Ostrogoths,  found  it  so  strong  and  well  prepared  that  he 
did  not  venture  to  attack  it.  From  the  6th  to  the  9th 
cent,  it  was  engaged  in  repeated  struggles  against  Avars 
Slavonians  and  Bulgarians,  whose  attacks  it  repelled 
with  the  utmost  difficulty.  Finally,  in  904  AD  it  was 
captured  by  the  Saracens,  who,  after  slaughtering  a 
great  number  of  the  inhabitants  and  burning  a  consider- 
able portion  of  the  city,  sailed  away  carrying  with  them 
22,000  captives,  young  men,  women  and  children.  In 
1185,  when  the  famous  scholar  Eustathius  was  bishop, 
the  Normans  under  Tancred  stormed  the  city,  and  once 
more  a  general  massacre  took  place.  In  1204  Thessa- 
lonica became  the  center  of  a  Latin  kingdom  under 
Boniface,  marquis  of  Monferrat,  and  for  over  two 
centuries  it  passed  from  hand  to  hand,  now  ruled  by 
Latins  now  by  Greeks,  until  in  1430  it  fell  before  the 
sultan  Amurath  II.  After  that  time  it  remained  in 
the  possession  of  the  Turks,  and  it  was,  indeed,  the  chief 
European  city  of  their  dominions,  with  the  exception 
of  Constantinople,  until  it  was  recaptured  by  the  Greeks 
in  the  Balkan  war  of  1912.  Its  population  includes  some 
32,000  Turks,  47,000  Jews  (mostly  the  descendants  of 
refugees  from  Spain)  and  16,000  Greeks  and  other 
Europeans.  The  city  is  rich  in  examples  of  Byzantine 
ecclesiastical  architecture  and  art,  and  possesses,  in 
addition  to  a  large  number  of  mosques,  12  churches  and 
25  synagogues. 

LITERATURE. — The  fullest  account  of  the  topography 
Of  Thessalonica  and  its  history,  esp.  from  the  5th  to  the 
15th  cent.,  is  that  of  Tafel,  De  Thessalonica  eiusque 
agro.  Dissertatio  geographica,  Berlin,  1839;  cf  also 
the  Histories  of  Gibbon  and  Finlay.  A  description  of 
the  town  and  its  ancient  remains  is  given  by  Leakc. 
Travels  in  Northern  Greece,  III,  235  ff;  Cousinery, 
Voyage  dans  la  Macedoitie,  I,  23  fl°;  Heuzey.  Mission 
archeol.  de  Maeedoine,  272 ff;  and  other  travelers.  The 
inscriptions,  mostly  in  Gr,  are  collected  in  Dimitsas, 
MttKfSoi/ia  (Makedonia),  421  fl. 

M.  N.  Too 


Theudas 
Thomei 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HIHLU  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2072 


THEUDAS,  thu'das  (QevSas,  Theudas,  a  con- 
traction of  Theodorus,  "the  gift  of  God"):  Theudas 
is  referred  to  by  Gamaliel  in  his  speech  before  the 
Sunhedrin,  when  he  advised  them  us  to  the  position 
they  should  adopt  in  regard  to  the  apostles  (Acts 
6  36).  The  failure  of  the  rebellion  of  Theudas  was 
quoted  by  Gamaliel  on  this  occasion  as  typical  of 
the  natural  end  of  such  movements  us  were  inspired 
"not.  of  God,  but  of  men."  A  rising  under  one 
Theudas  is  also  described  by  Jos  (.t///,  XX,  v,  1), 
but  this  occurred  at  a  later  date  (according  to  Jos 
about,  44  or  45  AD)  than  the  speech  of  Gamaliel 
(before  37  AD).  Of  the  theories  put  forward  in 
explanation  of  the  apparent  anachronism  in  Gama- 
liel's speech,  the  two  most  in  favor  are  (1)  that  as 
there  were  many  insurrections  during  the  period 
in  question,  the  two  writers  refer  to  different  Theu- 
duses;  (2)  that  the  reference  to  Theudus  in  the 
narrative  of  Acts  was  inserted  by  a  later  reviser, 
whose  historical  knowledge  was  inaccurate  (Weiss; 
cf  also  Knowling,  Expos  Clr  Test.,  II,  157-59). 

C.  M.  KERB 

THICK  TREES  (fa?  y?  ,  Vf  *al>hdtli  [Lev  23  40; 
Neh  8  15]):  One  of  the  varieties  of  trees  which  the 
Israelites  were  directed  to  use  at  the  Feast  of  Taber- 
nacles; in  the  latter  passage  they  are  expressly 
directed  to  make  booths  with  them.  According  to 
the  Talmudic  writings,  the  "thick  trees"  an; 
myrtles  (Xtik.  12';;  Jer  Suk.  iii,  53d),  and  further 
tradition  has  prescribed  certain  special  features  as 
to  the  varieties  of  myrtle  employed,  without  which 
they  cannot  be  used  in  the  ritual  of  the  feast.  In 
Sir  14  IS  "thick  tree"  represents  Stvdpov  Sacrv, 
dcndron  dasii,  "leafy  tree."  See  MYRTLE. 

THICKET,  thik'et  (-fll? ,  rbhakh  [Gen  22  13; 
Isa  9  18;  10  34],  or  -fib  \  sdbhckh  [Jer  47];  in 
1  S  13  G,  rnn ,  h<lah):  A  thick  or  dense  growth  of 
trees  or  shrubs  (thorns,  brumbies),  in  which  wild 
beasts  may  lurk  (Jer  4  7),  or  animals  be  caught  by 
their  horns  (Gen  22  13;  Abraham's  ram).  See 
FOREST. 

THIEF,  thef:  In  the  OT  the  uniform  tr  (17  t)  of 
333,  fjanndbh,  from  f/anabh,  "steal,"  but  ganndh/i  is 
rather  broader  than  the  Eng.  "thief,"  and  may 
even  include  a  kidnapper  (Dt  24  7).  In  Apoc 
and  the  NT,  AV  uses  "thief"  indifferently  for 
K\^TTT^,  klepies,  and  A^trTifc,  Irstfs,  but  RV  always  | 
renders  the  latter  word  by  "robber"  (a  great  im- 
provement). See  CRIMES.  The  figurative  use  of 
thief"  as  "one  coming  without  warning"  (Mt  24 
43,  etc)  needs  no  explanation. 

The  penitent  thief  ("robber,"  RV  Mk  15  27;  Mt 
27  38.44;  "malefactor,"  Lk  23  32.39)  was  one  of 
the  two  criminals  crucified  with  Christ.  According 
to  Mk  and  Mt,  both  of  these  joined  in  the  crowd's 
mockery,  but  Lk  tells  that  one  of  them  reproached 
his  fellow  for  the  insults,  acknowledged  his  own 
guilt,  and  begged  Christ  to  remember  him  at  the 
coming  of  the  Kingdom.  And  Christ  replied  by 
promising  more  than  was  asked — immediate  ad- 
mission into  Paradise.  It  should  be  noted  that 
unusual  moral  courage  was  needed  for  the  thief  to 
make  his  request  at  such  a  time  and  under  such 
circumstances,  and  that  his  case  has  little  in  common 
with  certain  sentimental  "death-bed  repentances." 

To  explain  the  repentance  and  the  acknowledg- 
ment of  Christ  as  Messiah,  some  previous  acquaint- 
ance of  the  thief  with  Christ  must  be  supposed,  but 
all  guesses  as  to  time  and  place  are  of  course  useless. 
Later  tradition  abundantly  filled  the  blanks  and 
gave  the  penitent  thief  the  name  Titus  or  Dysmus. 
See  ASSASSINS;  HAHABBAS. 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTOX 


THIGH,  (hi  (tf-p  ,  ydrekfi;  Aram. 
[Dnl  2  32[;  PIP°SI  meros  [Jth  9  2;  Sir  19  12; 
Ilev  19  It)];  as  part  of  a  sacrificial  animal  [Ex  29 
22,  etc]  plB,  .vAo/,-,  AV,  RVm  ''shoulder";  in  addi- 
tion AV  has  "thigh"  for  xhdk  in  Isa  47  2  [RY 
"leg"]):  The  portion  of  the  leg  from  the  knee 
to  i  he  hip,  against  which  a  weapon  hangs  when 
suspended  from  t  he  waist  (Ex  32  27;  Jgs  3  It).  21  : 
Ps  45  3,  etc).  So  the  thigh  of  a  rider  on  horse- 
back would  be  covered  by  a  loose  girdle,  on  which 
his  name  might  be  embroidered  (Rev  19  It')).  The 
"hollow  of  the  thigh"  (Gen  32  25  IT)  is  the  hip- 
socket  or  the  groin.  See  also  I  In-. 

The  thighs  were  thought  to  play  a  part  in  pro- 
creation (Gen  46  2(5;  Ex  1  5,  EV  "loins";  Jgs 
8  30,  EV  "body";  cf  Nil  5  21  ff),  so  that  an  oath 
taken  with  the  hand  under  the  thigh  (Gen  24  2.9; 
47  29)  was  taken  by  (lie  life-power  (the  rabbis 
interpreted  "by  the  seal  of  circumcision").  It,  is 
perhaps  significant  that  this  oath  in  both  Gen  24  and 
47  is  said  to  have  been  exacted  by  persons  in  danger 
of  death.  Doubtless  this  association  of  the  thigh 
with  life  (aided  perhaps  by  its  excellence  as  food  [1 
S  9  24;  E/.k  24  4])  determined  its  choice  as  a  sacri- 
ficial portion  (Ex  29  22,  etc;  on  the  "heave  thigh" 
see  SACRIFICE).  Consequently  it  is  natural  to  iind 
the  thigh  classed  as  forbidden  ("sacred")  food 
among  certain  peoples,  and,  probably,  this  sacred 
character  of  the  part  is  the  real  basis  of  Gen  32  32: 
''The  children  of  Israel  eat  not  the  sinew  of  the  hip 
which  is  upon  the  hollow  of  the  thigh,  unto  this 
day."  The  origin  of  the  prohibition,  however,  was 
unknown  to  the  writer  of  the  verse,  and  he  sought, 
an  explanation  from  a  story  in  which  special  atten- 
tion was  called  to  the  thigh.  Nothing  else  is  heard 
about  this  precept  in  the  OT,  but  it  receives  elab- 
orate attention  in  the  Mish  (llullln,  vii),  when1, 
for  instance,  all  food  cooked  with  meat  containing 
the  sinew  (nerrus  ischiadicus)  is  rendered  unclean 
if  t  he  sinew  imparts  a  flavor  to  it,  but  not  otherwise1. 
(For  further  details  see  the  conuns.,  esp.  Skinner 
[ICC]  and  7?N2,  3SO.)  One  of  the  proofs  of  guilt 
in  the  jealousy  trial  (Nil  5  27)  was  the  fulling-away 
of  the  "thigh"  (a  euphemism;  see  JEALOUSY).  To 
smite  upon  the  thigh  was  a  token  of  contrition 
(Jer  31  19)  or  of  terror  (K/r  21  12). 

HruTo.v  SCOTT  EASTOV 

THIMNATHAH,  thim'na-tha,  Ihim-nu'fhu 
(nr^F!,  timnatkah):  AV  in  Josh  19  43.  It  is 
correctly  "Timnah"  with  lie  locale  meaning 
"toward  Timnah."  See  TIMNAII. 


THINK,  think:  The  OT  often  translates  n^X  , 
'dinar,  "to  say,"  meaning  what  one  says  to  himself, 
and  hence  a  definite  and  clearlv  formulated  decision 
or  purpose  (Gen  20  11;  Nu  24  4;  Ruth  4  4,  etc), 
illustrated  by  the  change  made  by  RV  in  AV  of 
Est  6  (5,  where  "thought  in  his  heart"  becomes 
"said  in  his  heart."  In  other  passages,  for  SttJn  , 
hdshnbh,  !~P2':1  ,  dumdh,  or  E'ET  ,  zamam,  indicating 
the  result  of  mental  activity,  as  in  an  intention  or 
est  imute  formed  after  careful  deliberation  (cf  Ecclus 
18  25).  In  the  NT,  most  frequently  for  8o/«!u, 
dokcO,  "to  be  of  the  opinion,"  "suppose,"  lit.  "seem" 
(Mt  39;  67;  Lk  10  36,  etc).  Sometimes,  for 
\oyi£o/j.ai,  logizomai,  "to  compute,"  "reckon"  (Rom 
2  3,  etc);  sometimes,  for  vo/j.lfa,  nomizo,  lit.  re- 
ferring to  what  attains  the  force  of  law  (v6/j.os, 
n6mos),  and  then,  "to  be  of  the  opinion";  or,  for 
(j>pov<:u,  phroneo,  implying  a  thought  That  is  cherished 
—  a  mental  habit,  rather  than  an  act  (Rom  12  ;->; 
1  Cor  13  11).  The  Gr  yyto/j.a.1,  hcgeomai,  "to  con- 
sider," implies  logical  deduction  from  premises 
(Acts  26  2;  Phil  2  6),  while  in  Mt  1  20;  9  4, 
and  Acts  10  19,  Iviin/jLovnai,  enthumoumai,  refers 


2973 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  .STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Theudas 
Thomei 


to  the  mental  process  itself,  the  thinking-out  of  a 
project,  the  concentration  of  the  faculties  upon  the 
formation  of  a  plan.  II.  E.  JACOBS 


THIRD,  thurd  pttFTj  ,  sh'lisln;  rpCros, 
Isa  19  24,  "In  that  day  shall  Israel  be  the  third 
with  Egypt  and  with  Assyria,"  etc,  brings  out  very 
distinctly  the  universal  and  missionary  character 
of  Isaiah's  prophecies  and  of  Israel's  destiny  (cf 
Ezk  16  03;  and  see  G.  A.  Smith,  Isaiah,  II,  275, 
278;  Watkinson,  The  Blind  Xpol,  21  ff). 

For  "third  hour,"  "third  month,"  "third  year," 
see  CALKNDAK;  DAY;  TIMK. 

THIRD  DAY.     See  LORD'S  DAY. 


THIRST,  thurst  («12£ ,  gama1,  vb.  XKZ , 
Si4/dw,  dipsdu,  Styos,  f/?/;.sv).s',  8£\|/a,  d'tpsa):  One  of 
the  most  powerful  natural  appetites,  the  craving 
for  water  or  other  drink.  Besides  its  natural  sig- 
nificance, thirst  is  figuratively  used  of  strong  spirit- 
ual desire.  The  soul  thirsts  for  God  (Ps  42  2; 
63  1).  Jesus  meets  the  soul's  thirst  with  water  of 
life  (Jn  4  13  ff;  6  35;  7  37).  It  is  said  of  the 
heavenly  bliss,  "They  shall  hunger  no  more;  neither 
thirst  any  more"  (Rev  7  10.17;  cf  Isa  49  10). 

THIRTEEN,  thur'ten,thur-ten',  THIRTY.thur't  i. 
See  NUMBER. 

THISBE,  thiz'be  (B,  Qla-fa,  Thisbc,  A,  QLfa, 
Thibe):  The  home  of  Tobit  whence  he  was  carried 
into  captivity  to  Babylon.  It  is  said  to  be  "on  the 
right  hand  [i.e.  S.]  of  Kedesh-naphtali  in  Galilee" 
(Tob  1  2).  Some  have  thought  that  this  was  the 
native  place  of  Elijah  the  Tishbite,  but  this  is  mere 
conjecture.  The  site  has  not  been  recovered.  We 
need  not  expect  strict  geographical  accuracy  in 
the  romance  of  Tobit,  any  more  than  in  that  of 
Judith. 

THISTLES,  this"lz.     See  THORNS. 

THOCANUS,  tho-ka'nus  (OoKavos,  TMkanos, 
©uKavos,  Thokanos;  AV  Theocanus) :  The  father  of 
Ezekias,  who  with  Jonathan  "took  the  matter  upon 
them"  in  the  proceedings  under  Ezra  against  foreign 
wives  (1  Esd  9  14)  =  "Tikvah"  in  TJzr  10  15. 

THOMAS,  tom'as  (©w^,  Thomas;  DSW , 
la  Dm,  "a  twin"  (in  j)l.  only) :  One  of  the  Twelve 

Apostles.  Thomas,  who  was  also  called 
1.  In  the  "Didymus"  or  "the  Twin"  (cf  Jn  11  10- 
NT  20  24;  21  2),  is  referred  to  in  detail 

by  the  Gospel  of  Jn  alone.  His  elec- 
tion to  the  Twelve  is  nvorded  in  Mt  10  3;  Mk  3 
IS;  Lk  6  15;  Acts  1  13.  In  Jn  11  1-54,  when 
Jesus,  despite  imminent  danger  at  the  hands  of 
hostile  Jews,  declared  His  intention  of  going  to 
Bethany  to  heal  Lazarus,  Thomas  alone  opposed 
the  other  disciples  who  sought  to  dissuade  Him, 
and  protested,  "Let  us  also  go;  that  we  maydie  with 
him"  (11  16).  On  the  eve  of  the  Passion,  Thomas 
put  the  question,  "Lord,  we  know  not  whither  thou 
goest;  how  know  we  the  way?"  (14  5).  After  the 
crucifixion,  Thomas  apparently  severed  his  con- 
nection with  the  rest  of  the  apostles  for  a  time,  as 
he  was  not  present  when  the  risen  Christ  first  ap- 
peared to  them  (cf  20  24).  But  his  subsequent 
conversation  with  them,  while  not  convincing  him 
of  the  truth  of  the  resurrection — "except  I  shall 
see  ....  I  will  not  believe"  (20  25)— at  least 
induced  him  to  be  among  their  number  eight  days 
afterward  (20  20)  in  the  upper  room.  There,  hav- 
ing received  the  proofs  for  which  he  sought,  he 
made  the  confession,  "My  Lord  and  my  God" 


(20  28),  and  was  reproved  by  Jesus  for  his  previous 
unbelief:  "Because  thou  hast,  seen  me,  tliou  hast 
believed:  blessed  are  they  that  have;  not  seen,  and 
yet  have  believed"  (20  29).  He  was  one  of  the 
disciples  to  whom  Jesus  manifested  Himself  during 
the  fishing  expedition  at  the  Sea  of  Tiberias  (21 
1-11). 

According  to  the  "  Genealogies  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  " 
(Cf  Budge,  The  Contendinus  of  the.  Apostle*,  H,  f,0) 

Thomas  was  of  the  house  of  Asher.  The 
2.  In  ApOC-  Oldest  accounts  are  to  the  effect  that  he 
rvnhal  di('(l  il  natural  death  (cf  Clement  of  Alex- 

andria iy.9,  71).  Two  fields  are  men- 
i^uerdture  turned  by  apocryphal  literature  as  the 

scene  of  Thomas'  missionary  labors.  (1) 
According  to  Origon,  he  preached  in  Parthia,  and  accord- 
ing to  a  Syrian  legend  he  died  at  Kdessa.  The  Agbar 


cent.,  tells  how  when  the  world  was  partitioned  out  as 
a  mission  field  among  the  disciples.  India  fell  to  "Judas 
1  homas,  also  called  Didymus."  and  narrates  his  adven- 
tures on  the  way,  his  trials,  missionary  success,  and  death 
at  the  hands  of  Misdai,  king  of  India  (cf  Budge  II  404 
ff;  Hennecke,  N  eutestamentliche  Apokryphen  473-544- 
Pick.  The  Apocryphal  Aet«,  22-1  it).  The  "Preaching  of 
St.  Thomas"  (cf  Budge,  II,  31!))  relates  still  more  fan- 
tastic adventures  of  Thomas  in  India,  and  the  "Martyr- 
dom of  St.  Thomas  in  India"  states  that  on  his  departure 
toward  Macedonia  he  was  put  to  death  as  a  sorcerer. 

Of  the  two,  the  former  is  the  more  probable.  An 
attempt  at  reconciliation  has  been  made  by  supposing 
that  the  relics  of  Thomas  were  transported  from  India 
to  Edessa,  but  this  is  based  on  inaccurate  historical  in- 
formation (cf  Hennecke,  op.  cit.,  474).  The  additional 
names  .1  udas  and  '  '  Didymus  '  '  have  caused  further  con- 
fusion in  apocryphal  literature  in  regard  to  Thomas  and 
have  led  to  his  identification  with  Judas  of  James  'and 
hence  with  Thaddaeus  (see  THADDAEUS),  and  also'with 


APOCRYPHAL  GOSPELS,  III,  2,  [a]')  was  known  to  Irenaeus 
(cf  Iren.,  Adv.  Haer.,  i.20). 


Although  _  little  is  recorded  of  Thomas  in  the 
Gospels,  he  is  yet  one  of  the  most  fascinating  of  the 

apostles.     He  is  typical  of  that  nature 
3.  Cnaractei  —  a  nature  by  no  means  rare  —  which 

contains  within  it  certain  conflicting 
elements  exceedingly  difficult  of  reconciliation. 
Possessed  of  little  natural  buoyancy  of  spirit,  and 
inclined  to  look  upon  life  with  the  eyes  of  gloom  or 
despondency,  Thomas  was  yet  a  man  of  indomi- 
table courage  and  entire  unselfishness.  Thus  with 
a  perplexed  faith  in  the  teaching  of  Jesus  was 
mingled  a  sincere  love  for  Jesus  the  teacher.  In 
the  incident  of  Christ's  departure  for  Bethany,  his 
devotion  to  his  Master  proved  stronger  than  his 
fear  of  death.  Thus  far,  in  a  situation  demanding 
immediate  ^action,  the  faith  of  Thomas  triumphed; 
but  when  it  came  into  conflict  with  his  standards 
of  belief  it  was  put  to  a  harder  test.  For  Thomas 
desired  to  test  all  truth  by  the  evidence  of  his 
senses,  and  in  this,  coupled  with  a  mind  tenacious 
both  of  its  beliefs  and  disbeliefs,  lay  the  real  source 
of  his  religious  difficulties.  It  was  his  sincerity 
which  made  him  to  stand  aloof  from  the  rest  of  the 
disciples  till  he  had  attained  to  personal  conviction 
regarding  the  resurrection;  but  his  sincerity  also 
drew  from  him  the  testimony  to  that  conviction, 
"My  Lord  and  my  God,"  the  greatest  and  fullest 
in  all  Christianity.  C.  M.  KKKK 

THOMAS,  GOSPEL  OF.  See  APOCRYPHAL 
GOSPELS,  III,  2,  (a). 

THOMEI,  thom'S-i  (A,  0o|ic£,  Thonm,  Fritzsche, 
0o|io£,  Thomoi,  B  and  Swete,  0o(i0e£,  Thomthd;  AV 
Thomoi):  A  family  name  of  temple-servants  who 
returned  with  Zerubbabel  (1  Esd  6  32)  =  "Temah" 
in  Ezr  2  ,r>3;  Neh  7  55. 


Thorn  in  the  Flesh 
Threshing-Floor 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2974 


THORN,  thorn,  IN  THE  FLESH  (o-KoXovJ/  rfj 
<raPKi,  .sAvi/o/w  /r  Mirki):  St.  Paul  thus  character- 
izes some  bodily  ailment  which  afflicted  him  and 
impaired  his  usefulness  (2  Cor  12  7).  The  data 
are  insufficient  to  enable  us  to  ascertain  its  real 
nature,  and  all  the  speculations  on  the  point  are 
therefore  inconclusive.  All  that  we  are,  told  is  that, 
it  was  a  messenger  of  Satan;  that  thereby  ho  was 
beaten  as  with  a  fist,  which  might  bo  figurative  or 
actual;  that  it  rendered  his  bodily  presence  un- 
attractive. It  appears  that  the  infirmity  recurred, 
for  thrice  he  sought  deliverance;  but,  by  the  help  of 
(iod,  he  was  able  to  glory  in  it.  Sir  \V.  Ramsay 
sees  in  it  some  form  of  recurring  malarial  fever. 
It  was  something  that  disabled  him  (C.al  4  12-15); 
hence,  Farrar  supposes  that  it  was  ophthalmia,  from 
the  reference  to  his  eves,  from  his  inability  to  recog- 
nize the  high  priest  '(Acts  23  5),  from  his  employ- 
ing amanuenses  to  write  his  epp.,  and  his  writing 
the  Galatian  letter  in  largo  characters  with  his  own 
hand  (Gal  6  11).  Krenkel  has  at  great  length 
argued  that  it  was  epilepsy,  and  thereby  endeavors 
to  account  for  his  trances  and  his  falling  to  the  earth 
on  his  way  to  Damascus,  but  his  work  is  essentially 
a  special  pleading  for  a  foregone  conclusion,  and 
Paul  would  not  have  called  his  visions  "a  messenger 
of  Satan."  It  is  also  beside  the  question  to  heap 
up  instances  of  other  distinguished  epileptics.  On 
the  whole  Farrar's  theory  is.  the  most  probable. 

It  is  probably  only  a  coincidence  that  "pricks 
in  your  eyes"  (LXX  .sAv'^/x.s)  are  mentioned  in  Nu 
33  .").").  Any  pedestrian  in  Pal  must  be  familiar 
with  the  ubiquitous  and  troublesome  thorny  shrubs 
and  thistles  which  abound  there. 

ALKX.  MACALISTER 

THORNS,  thorn/,  THISTLES,  ETC:  There  are 
very  many  references  to  various  thorny  plants  in 
the  Bible,"  and  of  the  Hob  words  employed  great 
uncertainty  exists  regarding  their  exact  meaning. 
The  alternative  1  rs  given  in  the  text  of  EV  and  in  the 
margin  show  how  divided  are  the  views  of  the  trans- 
lators. In  the  following  list  the  suggestions  given 
of  p  >ssible  species  indicated,  usually  by  comparison 
with  the  Arab.,  are  those  of  the  late  Professor  Post, 
who  spent  the  best  years  of  his  life  in  study  of  the 
botany  of  Pal.  In  the  great  majority  of  instances, 
however,  it  is  quite  impossible  to  make  any  reason- 
able suggestion  as  to  any  particular  species  being 
indicated. 

(1)  TB55,  'tWulh  (Jgs  9  14,  EV  "bramble,"  AVm 
"thistle, "rRVm  "thorn";   Ps  58  9,  EV  "thorns"): 
Probably  the  buckthorn  (lUi<iiiinux  Palestina  Post). 
At  ail  occurs  as  a  proper  name  in  Gen  50  10.11. 

(2)  D^p/IS,  barlcdnlm  (Jgs  8  7.16,  EV  "briers"): 
Some   thorny   plant.     The    Egyp-Arab.    htin/an.   is, 
according  to  Moore  (Connn.  on,  ./f/.s),  the  same  as 
Centaurea  .STO/K//-///X  (N.O.  Compositae),  a  common 
Palestinian  thistle. 

(3)  "I"~H,    'lardar   (Gen  3  IS;     Hos  10  8,    EV 
"thistle";      LXX    rpif3o\os,    (riholos):      In     Arab., 
shanket  ed-dardar  is  a  general  name  for  the  thistles 
known  as    Ccnlnnmic.  or  star-thistles   (N.O.    C<»n- 
poxitac),  of  which  Pal  produces  nearly  50  species. 
The  purple-flowered   C.  ciilrilni/xi  and  the  yellow 
C.  verutum  are  among  the  commonest  and   most- 
striking. 

(4)  p"n,    hcdhek    (Prov  15  19,    EV    "thorns"; 
LXX    &Ka.vBal   dkanlha;      Mic  7  4,    EV    "brier"): 
From  former  passages  this  should  be  some  thorny 
plant  suitable  for  making  a  hedge  (of  Arab,  hadalf, 
"to  inclose,"   "wall  in").     Lane  states  that  Arab. 
hndak    is    Solatium    sanctum.     Post    suggests    the 
oleaster,  Eleagnus  hortensis. 

(5)  rnn  ,  hoah;    LXX   KvlSij,  knide,  and  &Kavda, 
dkantha  (2  K  14  9;    Job  31  40,  EV  "thistle,"  in 
"thorn";    2  Ch  25  IS,  EV  "thistle,"  AVm  "furze 


bush,"  RVm  "thorn";  IIos  9  G;  Cant  2  2,  EV 
"thorns";  Isa  34  13,  AV  "brambles,"  RV  "thistles"; 
Prov  26  9,  EV  "a  thorn";  1  S  13  G,  "thickets"; 

ET^n,  hdirdlum,  is,  however,  according  to  Driver 
and  others  a  corruption  for  C^TH  ,  horlm,  "holes"; 
Job  41  2,  AV  "thorn,"  RV  "hook";  2  Ch  33  11, 
AV  "thorns,"  RV  "in  chains,"  m  "with  hooks"): 
Clearly  hoah  stands  for  some  plant  with  very  strong 
thorns,  but  it  is  quite  impossible  to  say  what  species 
is  intended;  indeed,  probably  the  word  was  used  in 
a  general  way.  See  HOOK. 

(('))  nZ'C'C  ,  )n''*ilk/iali,  occurs  only  in  Mic  7  4, 
where  it  means  a  "thorn  hedge1." 

(7)  pi?:,  na'd^ilg  (Isa  7  19,  AV  "thorns,"  RV 
"thorn  hedges";  Isa  55  13,  EV  "thorn") :  The  word 
is  derived  from  V  f":  ,  /i«V/o,  "to prick,"  or  "pierce," 
and  probably  applies  to  any  prickly  plant.  The 
LXX  tr  ffroilBr),  xloibe  (Isa  55  13),  suggests  the 
thorny  burnet,  Poterium  xpinosnm.,  so  common  in 
Pal  (see  BOTANY).  Post  says,  "It  may  be  one  ot 
the  thorny  acacias"  (IIl)H,  lV,  752). 

(S)  D^TP  ,  V'-lm  (Eeel  7  0,  "the  crackling  of 
thorns  [?Mm]  under  a  pot"  [sir] ;  Isa  34  13,  "Thorns 
shall  come  up  in  its  palaces";  Hos  2  0,  "I  will 
hedge  up  thy  way  with  thorns";  Nah  1  10,  En- 
tangled like  thorns  [AV  "folden  together  as  thorns"] 
they  are  consumed  utterly  as  dry  stubble") : 
The  thorny  burnet,  I'/ilirimn  xpittosmn,  is  today  so 
extensively  used  for  burning  in  ovens  and  lime- 
kilns in  Pal  that  it  is  tempting  to  suppose  this  is 
the  plant  esp.  indicated  hero.  In  Am  4  2  riTC  , 
§lroth,  is  tra  "fish-hooks."  See  HOOK. 

(9)  l;i5P,     silldn     (Ezk     28     24,     EV    "brier"); 
:r:;,5D,  villonlm  (Ezk  2  G,   FA'  "thorns"):    Arab. 
^  Hltlla  =  "thorn." 

(10)  D"Q"}C  ,    mrdbhlm    (Ezk  2  G,    EV    "briers," 
AVm  "rebels"):    The  tr  as  a  plant  name  is  very 
doubtful. 

(11)  "SnD,  Kirpailh   (Isa  55  13,  "Instead  of  the 
brier  shall 'come  up  the  myrtle-tree"):    LXX  has 
Kcwsa,  knnuza,  which  is    (Post)    the    elecampane, 
Itmla  rixcoxa  (N.O.   Compositae),  a  ])lant  2  or_3  ft. 
high,  growing  on  the  bare  hillsides  of  Pal,  not  infre- 
quently in  close  association  with  the  myrtle. 

(12)'  ""^i,  C''""7/"  (J<)0  &  'r>!  ^>rov  22  "''  ^ 
"thorns");  C"1!"1:^  ,  ftuxun  (Nu  33  55;  Josh  23 
13,  I'W  "thorns")':  The  words  apparently  have  a 
very  general  meaning. 

(13)  f  ip  ,  koq;   LXX  &Kai>8a,  dkanlha:    A  general 
name  for  thorny  and  T>riekly  plants,  the  commonest 
in  the  OT  (Gen  3  IS,    Ex  22  G;    Jgs  8  7.1G;    2  S 
23  G;     Ps  118  12;      Is;:  32   13;     33  12;     Jer  4  3; 
12  13;  Ezk  28  24;  Hos  10  S). 

(14)  tTiTGp,    kimuwsh    (Prov   24   31,     "thorns"; 
Isa  34  13;    Hos  9  G,  "nettl-s").     See  NETTLES. 

(15)  ITS®  ,  sikknn,  pi.  of  TfL' ,  wkli,  same  as  Arab. 
^0,  skauh,  "a  thorn"  (Nu  33  55,  "pricks"). 

(16)  rPTp,  shayith:  A  word  peculiar  to  Isa  (5  G; 
7  23 ff;  9  18;   10  17;  27  4)  and  always  associated 
with  shamir  (see  [17]),  always  tr'1  "thorns." 

(17)  "P'pip  ,  s/iomtr:  References  as  above  (16),  and 
in  Isa  32  13T,  where  it  is  with  kd$  (sec  [13])  always 
trd  "briers."     The  Arab,  samwr  is  the  thorny  acacia 
A.  wyyal  and  A.  tortilis  (Post). 

(18)  &Kav6os,  dkanthos:  The  equivalent  of  koq  (see 
[13])  (Mt  7  16;   13  7.22;    27  29,  etc).     Always  tr'1 
"thorns."  ;; 

(19)  pd/jivos,  rhdmnos  (Bar  6  71,  "white  thorn  ): 
The  Rhamnus  Palaestinu. 

(20)  o-K6\ot,   skoloi>8   (2  Cor  12  7,   EV    "thorn,' 
m  "stake").     Sec  THORN  IN  THE  FLESH. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


(21)  rpipoXos,  Iribolos  (Alt,  7  10,  "thistle":  II< 
6  8,  AV  "briers,"  RV  "thistles"). 

The  extraordinary  plcntifulness  of  variou,' 
prickly  plants  in  Pal  —  in  its  present  condition  —  it 
evident  to  any  traveler  during  the  summer  months. 
Many  of  the  trees  and  shrubs  are  thorny  and  the 
ground  is  everywhere  covered  thick  with  thistles, 
many  of  which  are  very  handsome  and  some  of  which 
attain  a  height  of  6  or  8  ft.  Before  the  peasant 
can  plough,  he  must  clear  these  away  by  burning  (ef 
Isa  10  17).  The  early  autumn  winds  often  drive 
before  them  in  revolving  mass  some  of  the  star- 
thistles  —  a  sight  so  characteristic  that  it  may  be 
the  "thistle  down"  (AVm,  RV  "whirling  dust")  of 
Isa  17  13.  Thorns  and  thistles  are  described  (Gen 
3  IS)  as  God's  curse  on  the  ground  for  sin.  The 
Talm  suggests  that  these  must  be  edible  and  are 
therefore  artichokes.  The  removal  of  them  and  the 
replacement  by  more  useful  plants  is  a  sign  of  God's 
blessing  (Isa  65  13;  Ezk  28  24). 

Gen  3  18  uses  the  words  "pp  and  "iT^J  for  "thorns" 
and  "thistles."  Midhrash  Rabba'  to  Genesis  (Midr.  Gen. 
Rabba'  20  10)  says  that  yip  ("thorn")  is  the  same  as 
rPDSy  Cakkabhlth),  which  means  an  edible  thistle  (cf 
Levy,  Diet.,  645),  and  that  ^TH  (dardar,  "thistle")  is 
the  same  as  D^p  (kinras;  Gr  Kwapa,  kundra,  "arti- 
choke") (cf  Levy',  Diet.,  298).  "But,"  adds  the  Midrash 
some  reverse  it,  and  say  that  Til.1!  (dardar)  is 


. 
Cakkdbhith)  and  that  'pp  (kos)  is  D"i:"1p  (kinras)." 

The  neglected  vineyard  of  the  sluggard  "was  all 
grown  over  with  thorns,  the  face  thereof  was  covered 
with  nettles"  (Prov  24  31),  and  in  God's  symbolic 
vineyard  "there  shall  come  up  briers  and  thorns" 
(Isa  5  G);  "They  have  sown  wheat  and  have  reaped 
thorns;  they  have  put  themselves  to  pain,  and  profit 
nothing"  (Jer  12  13). 

Jotham  compares  the  usurper  Abimelech  to  a 
bramble  (Rhamnus  Palaestina)  (Jgs  9  14  f),  and 
Jehoash,  king  of  Israel,  taunted  Amaziah,  king  of 
Judah,  by  comparing  him  slightingly  to  a  thistle 
(m  "thorn"),  readily  trodden  down  by  a  wild  beast 
(2  K  14  9). 

Nevertheless  thorns  and  thistles  have  their  uses. 
On  them  the  goats  and  camels  browse;  scarcely 
any  thorns  seem  to  be  too  sharp  for  their  hardened 
palates.  The  thorny  burnet  (Poterium  spinosum), 
Arab,  ballan,  which  covers  countless  acres  of  bare 
hillside,  is  used  all  over  Pal  for  ovens  (Eccl  7  6)  and 
lime-kilns.  Before  kindling  one  of  these  latter  the 
fellahin  gather  enormous  piles  of  this  plant  —  carried 
on  their  heads  in  masses  much  larger  than  the 
bearers  —  around  the  kiln  mouth. 

Thorny  hedges  around  dwellings  and  fields  are 
very  common.  The  most  characteristic  plant  for 
the  purpose  today  is  the  "prickly  pear"  (Opunctia 
ficus  Indica),  but  this  is  a  comparatively  late  intro- 
duction. Hedges  of  brambles,  oleasters,  etc,  are 
common,  esp.  where  there  is  some  water.  In  the 
Jordan  valley  masses  of  broken  branches  of  the 
Zizyphus  and  other  thorny  trees  are  piled  in  a  circle 
round  tents  or  cultivated  fields  or  flocks  as  a  pro- 
tection against  man  and  beast  (Prov  15  19;  Mic 
7  4,  etc). 

The  Saviour's  "crown  of  thorns"  (Mt  27  29) 
was  according  to  Palestinian  tradition  constructed 
from  the  twisted  branches  of  a  species  of  Rham- 
naceae,  either  the  Zizyphus  lotus  or  the  Z.  spina. 

E.  W.  G.  MASTERMAN 

THOUGHT,  thot:  The  most  frequent  word  in 
the  OT  (nznprra,  mahdshebheth,  from  the  vb. 
STZJn  ,  hashabh,  "to  think")  refers  to  a  "device,"  or 
a  purpose  firmly  fixed,  as  in  the  passage  in  Isa  (55 
7-9)  where  the  "thoughts"  of  God  and  of  man  are 
contrasted  (cf  Ps  40  5;  92  5;  Jer  29  11).  In  the 
NT  8ia\o-yi(rfj.6s,  dialogismos  (Mt  15  19;  1  Cor  3 


Thorn  in  the  Flesh 
Threshing-Floor 


20),  refers  to  the  inner  reasoning  or  deliberation  of 
one  with  himself.     See  THINK. 

THOUSAND,  thousand   (rbx 
chilioi).    See  NUMBER. 

THRACIA,  thra'shi-a,  THRACIAN,  Ihra'shan 
(QpaKia,  Thrakia):  The  name  given  to  the  country 
lying  between  the  rivers  Strymon  and  Danube 
Mention  is  made  of  a  Thracian  horseman  in  2  Mace 
12  35.  The  cavalry  of  this  fierce  people  were  in 
demand  as  mercenaries  in  all  countries.  In  40 
AD  Thrace  became  the  name  of  a  Rom  province. 
Some  have  sought  a  connection  between  Thraeia 
and  the  TIRAS  (q.v.)  of  Gen  10  2,  but  the  identi- 
fication is  conjectural. 

THRASAEUS,  thra-se'us  (A,  Swete  and  Fritzsche, 
©paeraios,  Thrasaios,  V,  Oapo-iou,  Tharsiou,  \", 
0apo-€ox>,  Tharseou;  Conjee.  I  fort,  ©apo-e'a,  Tharseu; 
AV  Thraseas):  The  father  of  APOLLONIUS  (q  v  j 
(2  Mace  3  5).  RVm  gives  "Or  'Thraseas.'"  The 
Gr  text  is  probably  corrupt.  Perhaps  the  true 
reading  is  "Apollonius  of  Tarsus." 


THREE 

BER. 


TPC£S) 


See  NUM- 


THREE   CHILDREN,    SONG    OF    THE.     See 

SONG  OF  THE  THREE  CHILDREN-. 

THREESCORE,  thre'skor.     See  NUMBER. 

THRESHING,  thresh'ing  (OTT  ,  dash;  d\odo>, 
(dodo):  Dush  means,  lit.,  "to  trample  out."  In  Jer 
51  33,  :f"n  ,  ddrakh,  is  used  of  threshing.  Fitches 
and  cummin  were  beaten  off  with  a  rod.  The  dis- 
tinction between  beating  and  threshing  is  made  in 
Isa  28  27.  Gideon,  in  order  to  avoid  being  seen 
by  the  Midianites,  beat  out  his  wheat  in  a  wine 
press  instead  of  threshing  it  on  the  threshing-floor 
(Jgs  6  11).  For  a  general  description  of  the  thresh- 
ing operations  see  AGRICULTURE. 
_  Figurative:  "Thou  shalt  thresh  the  mountains," 
i.e.  thou  wilt  overcome  great  difficulties  (Isa  41 
1-5).  Babylon's  destruction  was  foretold  poetically 
in  the  language  of  the  threshing-floor  (Isa  21  !()• 
Jer  51  33;  Dnl  2  35);  Zion's  foes  would  be 
gathered  as  sheaves  on  the  threshing-floor  (Mic  4 
12.13;  cf  2  K  13  7;  Am  1  3;  Hub  3  12);  thresh- 
ing unto  the  vintage,  i.e.  throughout  the  summer, 
indicated  an  extra  abundant  yield  (Lev  26  5)  . 

JAMES  A.  PATCH 

THRESHING-FLOOR,  t.-flor  (f$  ,  gdren;  a\o>v, 
hdlon;  "Htf  ,  'iddar,  occurs  in  Dnl  2  35)  :  The 
location  and  method  of  making  threshing-floors 
have  already  been  described  under  AGRICULTURE. 
These  floors  have  come  into  prominence  because  of 
the  Bib.  events  which  occurred  on  or  near  them. 
Joseph  with  his  kinsmen  and  Egyp  followers  halted 
For  seven  days  at  the  threshing-floor  of  Atad  to 
lament  the  death  of  Jacob  (Gen  50  10).  Probably 
there  was  a  group  of  floors  furnishing  a  convenient 
spot  for  a  caravan  to  stop.  Travelers  today  wel- 
come the  sight  of  a  threshing-floor  at  their  halting- 
place.  The  hard  level  spot  is  much  preferable  to 
the  surrounding  stony  fields  for  their  tents. 

David  built  an  altar  on  Oman's  (Araunah's) 
threshing-floor  (2  S  24  18-24;  1  Ch  21  18-27), 
which  later  became  the  site  of  the  Temple  (2  Cli 
3  1).  David  probably  chose  this  place  for  his  altar 
because  it  was  on  an  elevation  and  the  ground  was 
already  level  and  prepared  by  rolling.  Fzzah  died 
near  the  threshing-floor  of  Nacon  for  touching  the 
ark  (2  S  6  G).  Ruth  reveals  herself  to  Boaz  on  his 
threshing-floor  (Ruth  3  0-9). 


Threshold 
Thyatira 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2976 


Tliroshing-floors  ;ire  in  clangor  of  being  robbed 
(1  S  23  1).  For  this  reason  someone  always  sleeps 
on  the  floor  until  the  grain  is  removed  (Ruth  3  7). 
In  Syria  at  the  threshing  season  it  is  customary 
for  the  family  to  move  out  to  the  vicinity  of  the 
threshing-floor.  A  booth  is  constructed  for  shade; 
the  mother  prepares  the  meals  and  takes  her  turn 
with  the  father  and  children  at  riding  on  the  sledge. 

The  instruments  of  the  threshing-floor  referred 
to  in  2  S  24  22  were  probably:  (1)  the  wooden 
drag  or  sledge,  hdriif  or  moragh,  Arab,  lauh  c<l- 


bim"  (1  S  4  4  RYrn;  cf  2  S  6  2;  2  K  19  15); 
Solomon's  throne  is  really  Job's  throne  (1  Ch  29 
23),  and  there  shall  come  a  time  when  Jerujs  shall 
be  called  "the  throne  of  Jeh"  (Jor  3  17)  and  the 
enemies  of  Jeh  shall  be  judged  by  him  ("1  will  set 
my  throne  in  Elam,"  Jer  49  3<S).  According  to 
Ezk  43  7,  the  Lord  said  of  the  future  temple: 
"This  is  the  place  of  my  throne." 

(3)  The  rule  of  the  promised  theocratic  king  (the 
Messiah),  its  everlasting  glory  and  righteousness. 
lie,  too,  is  Jell's  representative,  inasmuch  as  He 


EGYPTIAN  THRESHING-FLOOR. 


dims;  (2)  the  fan  (fork),  mizreh,  Arab,  inidrd,  for 
separating  straw  from  wheat;  (3)  shovel,  incghra- 
phdk,  Arab,  mlrfaslmt,  for  tossing  the  wheat  into 
(ho  air  in  winnowing;  (4)  broom,  mat'dte',  for 
sweeping  the  floor  before  threshing  and  for  collect- 
ing the  wheat  after  winnowing;  (5)  goad,  malmcdh, 
Arab.  me.nsds;  (6)  the  yoke,  *ol,  Arab,  tank;  (7) 
sieve,  k'bhdrdh,  Arab,  gharbal;  (X)  dung  catcher, 
Arab,  milkat.  JAMKS  A.  PATCH 

THRESHOLD,  thresh'old.    See  Horsi-:,  II,  1,  (7). 


THRONE,  thron  («55  ,  Hs.sr',  a  "seat"  in  2  K 
4  10;  a  "royal  seat"  in  Jon  3  o;  Opovos,  llimriox): 
Usually  the  symbol  of  kingly  power  and  dignity. 
Solomon's  throne  was  noted  for  its  splendor  and 
magnificence  (1  K  10  18-20;  cf  2  Ch  9  17-11)). 
It  symbolizes: 

(1)  The  exalted  position  of  earthly  kings,  rulers, 
judges,  etc,  their  majesty  and  power  (of  kings:  (ion 
41  40;  1   K  2  19;  Job  36  7,  etc;  denoting  govern- 
ing or  judicial   power:    2  S  14  9;     Noh  37;    Ps 
122  5,  etc;   often  equivalent  to  kingdom  or  reign: 
1  S  2  S;    1  K  1  37.47,  etc;   in  this  connection  we 
note  the  expressions:     "a  man  on  the  throne  of 
Israel,"  1X24,  etc;   "to  sit  upon  a  throne,"  1   K 
1  13.17,  etc;  Jer  13  13,  etc;  "to  set  a  person  on  a 
throne,"  2  K  10  3;    "the  throne  of  Israel,"   1  K 
8  20,  etc;    "the  throne  of  David,"  2  S  3  10,  etc; 
of  Solomon,  2  S  7  13,  etc;   of  Joash,  2  Ch  23  20, 
etc).     In  Jer  17  12  it  is  equivalent   to   "temple" 
("A  glorious  throne  ....  is  the  place  of  our  sanc- 
tuary");   it  symbolizes  the  power  of  the  Gentiles 
being  hostile  to  the  people  of  Jeh  (Ps  94  20),  and 
is    used    metaphorically    in    Isa  22  23    ("He    [i.e. 
Eliakim]  shall  be  for  a  throne  of  glory  to  his  father's 
house"). 

(2)  The  majesty  and  power  of  Jeh  as  the  true 
king  of  Israel;    He  "is  enthroned  above  the  cheru- 


"shall  rule  upon  his  throne"  (/oc  6   13).      Thus  (he 
permanence  of  the  throne  of    David    is  warranted 


yptian  Throne. 


(Isa  9  7);  eternal  peace  (1  K  2  33),  loving-kind- 
ness and  justice  (Isa  16  5)  characterize  his  reign. 
The  NT  points  to  Jesus  as  this  promised  king  (Lk 


2977 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Threshold 
Thyatira 


1  32;  cf  Acts  2  30;  Ho  12  2);  Christ  Himself 
refers  to  His  future  st;ite  of  glory  (Alt  25  31)  ;ind 
guarantees  His  faithful  disciples  a  similar  dis- 
tinction (Mt  19  2S;  cf  Lk  22  30;  Rev  20  4). 

(4)  The  matchless  glory,  the  transcendent  power 
and    absolute    sovereignty    of    God    (and    Christ); 


; 


Arm-Chair  or  Throne  (Khorsabad). 

Micaiah  "saw  Jeh  sitting  on  his  throne,"  etc  (1  K 
22  19;  cf  2  Ch  18  18);  Isaiah  and  Ezekiel  had 
similar  visions  (Isa  6  1;  Ezk  1  20);  cf  also  Dnl 
7  9  and  Rev  4  2  (and  often);  in  trying  to  depict 
the  incomparable  greatness  of  the  King  of  kings, 
the  Bible  tells  us  that  His  throne  is  in  heaven  (Ps 
11  4,  etc)  and,  moreover,  that  heaven  itself  is  His 
throne  (Isa  66  1;  Mt  5  34,  etc);  His  reign  is 
founded  on  righteousness  and  justice  (Ps  89  14; 
cf  97  2)  and  of  eternal  duration  (Ps  45  G;  cf  He 
1  8;  Lam  5  19);  He  acts  justly  and  kindly  (Ps 
9  4  and  89  14);  He  defends  His  glory  (Jer  14  21); 
He  manifests  His  holiness  (Ps  47  8)  and  His  grace 
(He  4  16),  and  yet  His  dealings  with  us  are  not 
always  fully  understood  by  us  (Job  26  9). 

(5)  Heavenly  kingdoms  or  rulers  (angels:  Col 
1  10).  See  KING,  KINGDOM.  WILLIAM  BAUK 

THRUM,  thrum:  In  Isa  38  12  RV  reads  "He 
will  cut  me  off  from  the  loom,"  in  "thrum." 
"Thrum"  is  a  technical  term  of  weavers,  denoting 
the  threads  of  the  warp  hanging  down  in  a  loom, 
suiting  nS1! ,  dallah,  "that  which  hangs  down" 
(Cant  7  f),  "hair").  A  misinterpretation  of  "hang- 
ing down"  is  responsible  for  AV's  "pining  sickness." 

THUMMIM,  thum'im.     See  URIM  AND   THUM- 

MIM. 

THUNDER,  thun'der  (DSH ,  raW  [1  S  2  10; 
Job  26  14;  39  19;  40  9;  Ps  77  18;  81  7;  104  7; 
Isa  29  0],  Vlp,  kol,  "a  voice"  [Ex  9  23;  1  S  7 
10;  12  17;  Job  28  26;  382,5]):  Thunder  is  the 
noise  resulting  from  the  lightning  discharge.  It 
is  very  common  in  the  winter  storms  of  Syria 
and  Pal  and  occurs  in  the  extra-season  storms. 
Thunder  accompanied  the  storm  of  hail  in  Egypt 
at  the  time  of  the  plagues:  "The  Lord  sent  thunder 
and  hail"  (Ex  9  23). 

Lightning  and  thunder  are  indications  of  the 
power  of  Jeh  and  His  might.  "The  thunder  of  his 
power  who  can  understand?"  (Job  26  14);  "The 
God  of  glory  thundercth"  (Ps  29  3).  Jeh  also  con- 
fused the  Philis  with  thunder  (1  S  7  10),  and  His 
foes  were  "visited  of  Jeh  of  hosts  with  thunder" 


(Isa  29  6).  Thunder  was  regarded  as  (lie  voice  of 
Jeh:  "God  thundereth  with  the  voice  of  his  ex- 
cellency" (Job  37  4),  and  God  spoke  to  Jesus  in 
the  thunder  (Ppovr-r),  brontt,  Jn  12  29).  See  also 
LIGHTNING.  ALFHKD  II.  JOY 

THYATIRA,  thl-a-ti'ra  (Ovdreipa,  T/n/dteira'): 
Thyatira  was  a  wealthy  town  in  the  northern  part 
of  Lydia  of  the  Rom  province  of  Asia,  on  the  river 
Lycus.  It  stood  so  near  to  the  borders  of  Mysia, 
that  some  of  the  early  writers  have;  regarded  it  as 
belonging  to  that  country.  Its  early  history  is  not 
well  known,  for  until  it  was  refounded  by  Seleucus 
Nicator  (301-281  BC)  it  was  a  small,  insignificant 
town.  It  stood  on  none  of  the  Gr  trade  routes,  but 
upon  the  lesser  road  between  Pergamos  and  Sardis, 
and  derived  its  wealth  from  the  Lycus  valley  in 
which  it  rapidly  became  a  commercial  center,  but 
never  a  metropolis.  The  name  "Thyatira"  means 
"the  castle  of  Thy  a."  Other  names  which  it  has 
borne  are  Pelopia  and  Semiramis.  Before  the  time 
of  Nicator  the  place  was  regarded  as  a  holy  city, 
for  there  stood  the  temple  of  the  ancient  Lydian 
sun-god,  Tyrimnos;  about  it  games  were  held  in 
his  honor.  Upon  the  early  coins  of  Thyatira  this 
Asiatic  god  is  represented  as  a  horseman,  bearing 
a  double-headed  battle-ax,  similar  to  those  repre- 
sented on  the  sculptures  of  the  Hittites.  A  goddess 
associated  with  him  was  Boreatene,  a  deity  of  less 
importance.  Another  temple  at  Thyatira  was 
dedicated  to  Sambethe,  and  at  this  shrine  was  a 
prophetess,  by  some  supposed  to  represent  the 
Jezebel  of  Rev  2  20,  who  uttered  the  sayings  which 
this  deity  would  impart  to  the  worshippers. 

Thyatira  was  specially  noted  for  the  trade  guilds 
which  were  probably  more  completely  organized 
there  than  in  any  other  ancient  city.  Every  artisan 
belonged  to  a  guild,  and  every  guild,  which  was 
an  incorporated  organization,  possessed  property 
in  its  own  name,  made  contracts  for  great  con- 
structions, and  wielded  a  wide  influence.  Power- 
ful among  them  was  the  guild  of  coppersmiths; 
another  was  the  guild  of  the  dyers,  who,  it  is  be- 
lieved, made  use  of  the  madder-root  instead  of 
shell-fish  for  making  the  purple  dyestuffs.  A 
member  of  this  guild  seems  to  have  been  Lydia  of 
Thyatira,  who,  according  to  Acts  16  14,  sold  her 
dyes  in  Philippi.  The  color  obtained  by  the  use  of 
this  dye  is  now  called  Turkish  red.  The  guilds 
were  closely  connected  with  the  Asiatic  religion  of 
the  place.  Pagan  feasts,  with  which  immoral 
practices  were  associated,  were  held,  and  therefore 
the  nature  of  the  guilds  was  such  that  they  were 
opposed  to  Christianity.  According  to  Acts  19  10, 
Paul  may  have  preached  there  while  he  was  living 
at  Ephesus,  but  this  is  uncertain;  yet  Christianity 
reached  there  at  an  early  time.  It  was  taught  by 
many  of  the  early  church  that  no  Christian  might 
belong  to  one  of  the  guilds,  and  thus  the  greatest 
opposition  to  Christianity  was  presented. 

Thyatira  is  now  represented  by  the  modern  town 
of  Ak-Hissar  on  a  branch  line  of  the  Manisa-Soma 
Railroad,  and  on  the  old  Rom  road  9  hours  from 
Sardis.  Ak-Hissar  is  Turkish  for  "white  castle," 
and  near  the  modern  town  may  be  seen  the  ruins  of 
the  castle  from  which  the  name  was  derived.  The 
village  is  of  considerable  size;  most  of  the  houses 
are  of  mud,  but  several  of  the  buildings  erected  by 
Caracalla  are  still  standing,  yet  none  of  them  are 
perfect.  In  the  higher  part  of  the  town  are  the 
ruins  of  one  of  the  pagan  temples,  and  in  the  walls 
of  the  houses  are  broken  columns  and  sarcophagi 
and  inscribed  stones.  The  population  of  20,000  is 
largely  Gr  and  Armenian,  yet  a  few  Jews  live  among 
them.  Before  the  town  is  a  large  marsh,  fever- 
laden,  and  esp.  unhealthful  in  the  summer  time, 
formed  by  the  Lycus,  which  the  Turks  now  call 


Thyine  Wood 
Tiberius 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2978 


(Icurdotk  Chai.     The  chief  modern  industry  is  rug- 
making.  j<:-  •>•   K-VNKS 

THYINE,  tlil'in,  WOOD  (£v\ov  6vCvov,  .niton 
thninon):  An  aromatic  wood  described  as  sold  in 
"Babylon"  (Rev  18  12,  AVm  "sweet  wood").  It 


Thyine  Wood    (Callitri 

is  tlie  wood  of  (lie  tliya  (fan*,  Ihn'i(i')  tree,  probably 

identical  with    Thuia  articulata,  an  evergreen   tree 

growing  in  North  Africa, 

resembling    the  _  cypress, 

which  in  Rom  times  was 

employed  for   making 

valuable  furniture. 

TIBERIAS,  tl-be'ri-as 
(Ti.pepi.as,  VY/xr/V/.s,  .In  6 
2:}):  About  the  middle 
of  the  western  shore  of 
the  Sea  of  Galilee,  the 
mount  ains  fall  back  from 
the  coast,  and  leave  a 
roughly  crescent-shaped 
plain,  about  2  miles  in 
length.  The  modern  city 
of  Tiberias  (fabanyeh') 
stands  at  the  northern 
ex  I  remity,  when;  1  he 
ground  begins  to  rise; 
and  the  Hot  Baths  (Ham- 
inalh]  at  the  south  end. 
On  the  southern  part  of 
this  plain  Herod  Antipas 
built  a  city  (c  2(5  AD), 
calling  it  "Tiberias"  in 
honor  of  the  emperor  who 
had  befriended  him.  In 
clearing  the  ground  and 
digging  foundations  cer- 
tain tombs  were  dis- 
turbed (Ant,  XVIII,  ii,  3).  It  may  have  been  the 
graveyard  of  old  Hammath.  The  palace,  the 
famous  "Golden  House,"  was  built  on  the  top  of  a 
rocky  hill  which  rises  on  the  W.  to  a  height  of 
some  500  ft.  The  ruin  is  known  today  as  Kasr 


hint  cl-Mclfk,  "Palace  of  the  King's  Daughter." 
The  strong  walls  of  the  city  can  be  traced  in 
almost  their  entire  length  on  the  landward  side. 
Parts  are  also  to  be  seen  ulong  the  shore,  with 
towers  at  intervals  which  guarded  against  attack 
by  sea.  The  ruins  cover  a  considerable  area. 
There  is  nothing  above  ground  older  than  Herod's 
city.  Only  excavation  can  show  whether  or  not 
the  Talm '  is  right,  in  saying  that  Tiberias  was 
built,  on  the  site  of  Rakkath  and  Chinnereth 
(Xcubauer,  (Icog.  (In  Talin,  20S).  The  Jews  were 
shy  of  settling  in  a  city  built  over  an  old  ceme- 
tery; and  Herod  had  trouble  in  finding  occupants 
for' it.  A  strange  company  it  was  that  he  ulti- 
mately gathered  of  the  "poorer  people,"  foreign- 
ers, and  others  ''not  quite  freemen";  and  these 
were  drawn  by  the  prospect  of  good  houses  and  land 
which  he  freely  promised  them.  With  its  stadium, 
its  palace  "with  figures  of  living  things,"  and  its 
senate,  it  may  be  properly  described  as  a  Gr  city, 
although  it  also  contained  a  proseucht-,  or  place  of 
prayer,  for  the  Jews  (lij ,  II,  xxi,  (>;  Vita,  Nil,  54, 
etc).  This  accounts  for  it  figuring  so  little  in  the 
Gospels.  In  his  anxiety  to  win  the  favor  of  tin- 
Jews,  Herod  built  for  them  "the  finest  synagogue  in 
Galilee";  but  many  years  were_  to  elapse  before  it 
should  become  a  really  Jewish  city. 

Superseding  Sepphoris,  Tiberias  was  the  capital 
of  Galilee  under  Agrippa  I  and  the  Rom  procura- 
tors. It  surrendered  to  Vespasian,  and  was  given 
by  Nero  to  Agrippa  II,  Sepphoris  again  becoming 
the  capital.  During  the  Jewish  war  its  inhabitants 
were  mainly  Jewish,  somewhat  turbulent  and  diffi- 
cult  to  manage.  In  100  AD,  at  Agrippa's  death, 
the  Romans  assumed  direct  control.  After  the  fall 
of  Jems,  the  Sanhedrin  retreated  to  Galilee,  first 
to  Sepphoris,  and  then  to  Tiberias.  Here,  some 
f  ime  before  220  A  D,  under  supervision  of  1  he  famous 
Rabbi  Jehuda  ha-NasI',  "Judah  the  Prince,"  or, 
as  he  is  also  called,  horkadhosh,  "the  Holy,"  the 


Tiberias. 


civil  and  ritual  laws,  decrees,  customs,  etc,  held  to 
b;;  of  binding  obligation,  handed  down  by  tradition, 
but  not  having  Scriptural  authority,  were  codified 
and  written  down,  under  the  title  of  "Mishna." 
Here  also  later  was  compiled  the  Jerus  Talm 


2979 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


(Y'rushalml) ,  as  distinguished  from  (hat,  compiled 
in  Babylon  (Babhll).  The  city  thus  became  a 
great  center  of  Jewish  learning.  Maimonides' 
tomb  is  shown  near  the  town,  and  that  of  Akiba 
on  the  slope  of  the  mountain,  when;  it,  is  said 
24,000  of  his  disciples  are  buried  wit  h  him. 

In  Christian  times  Tiberias  was  the  seal',  of  a 
bishop.  It  fell  to  the  Moslems  in  (>.'$7.  It  changed 
hands  several  times  as  between  the  Crusaders  and 
the  Saracens.  It  was  finally  taken  bv  the  Moslems 
in  1247. 

The  inclosing  walls  of  the  modern  city,  and  the 
castle,  now  swiftly  going  to  ruin,  were  built  bv 
Tancred  and  repaired  by  Daher  el-'Omar  in  1730. 
There  are  over  0,000  inhabitants,  mostly  Jews,  in 
whose  hands  mainly  is  the  trade  of  the  place.  The 
fishing  in  the  lake,  in  which  some  20  boats  an;  occu- 
pied, is  carried  on  by  Moslems  and  Christians. 
Tiberias  is  the  chief  inhabited  place  on  the  lake,  to 
which jis  in  ancient  days  it  gives  its  name,  liahr 
Tabarlych,  "Sea  of  Tiberias"  (Jn  6  1;  21  ]).  It, 
isthe  market  town  for  a  wide  district .  The  open  ing 
of  the  Haifa-Damascus  Railway  has  quickened  the 
pulse  of  life  considerably.  A  steamer  and  motor 
boat  ply  between  the  town  and  the  station  at 
Semach,  bringing  the  place  into  easy  touch  with  the 
outside  world.  The  water  of  the  lake  is  largely  used 
for  all  purposes,  although  there  are  cisterns  for  rain 
water  under  some  of  the  houses. 

After  a  residence  of  over  five  years  in  the  city,  the 
present,  writer  can  say  that  it  does  not  deserve  the 
evil  reputation  which  casual  travelers  have  given  it. 
In  matters  of  cleanliness  and  health  it  stands  com- 
parison very  well  with  other  oriental  towns.  Some- 
times,  in  east  wind,  it  is  very  hot,  the  thermometer 
registering  over  114°  Fahr.  in  the  shade.  The 
worst  time  is  just  at  the  beginning  of  the  rainy 
season,  when  the  impurities  that  have  gathered  in 
the  drought  of  summer  are  washed  into  the  sea, 
contaminating  the  water. 

The  Tinted  Free  Church  of  Scotland  has  here  a 
well-equipped  mission  to  the  Jews.  W.  EWINCJ 

TIBERIAS,  SEA  OF.    See  GALILKK,  SEA  OF. 

TIBERIUS,  ti-be'ri-us   (T^'pios,   TiMrion}:  The 

2d    Jtom   empjcror;     full   name   Tiberius   Claudius 

Nero,   and   official   name   as   emperor 

1.  Name        Tiberius  Caesar  Augustus;    born  No- 
and  Parent- vember    16,    42    BC.     His   father— of 
age  the  same  mime — had  been  an  officer 

under  Julius  Caesar  and  had  later 
joined  Antony  against  Octavian  (Augustus).  His 
mot  her  was  Livia,  who  became  the  3d  wife  of  Augus- 
tus ;  t  hus  T.  was  a  stepson  of  Augustus. 

Much  of  his  early  life  was  spent  in  successful 
campaigning.  Although  the  ablest  of  the  possible 

heirs  of  Augustus,  T.  was  subjected  to 

2.  Early         many  an  indignity,  Augustus  accept - 
Life  and         ing  him  as  his  successor  only  when 
Relation  to    every  other  hope  failed.     When  Julia, 
Augustus       daughter  of  August  us,  became  a  widow 

for  the  second  time  (12  BC),  T.  was 
obliged  to  marry  her  (11  BC)  in  order  to  become 
protector  of  the  future  emperors.  For  this  purpose; 
he  was  compelled  to  divorce  his  wife,  Vipsania 
Agrippina,  who  had  borne  him  a  son,  Drusus.  Julia 
brought  T.  nothing  but  shame,  and  for  her  immoral- 
ity was  banished  by  her  father  (2  BC).  T.  was 
consul  in  12  BC,  and  received  the  proconsular 
authority,  9  BC.  He  carried  on  successful  wars  in 
Pannonia,  Dalmatia,  Armenia  and  Germany.  He 
ret  ired  in  disgust  to  voluntary  exile  at  Rhodes  where- 
he  spent  several  years  in  study.  In  2  AD,  he  re- 
turned to  Rome,  and  lived  there  in  retirement,  2-4 
AD.  On  June  27,  4  AD,  T.  and  Agrippa  Post  urn  us 
were  adopted  by  Augustus.  From  this  date  on  T. 


Thyine  Wood 
Tiberius 


came  more  and   more   into  prominence,   receiving 
the  tribunician  power  for  10  years. 

In  13  AD  (or  according  to  Mommsen  11  AD)  T. 

was    by    a    special    law    raised    to    the    co-regency 

August  us  died  August,  1<),  14  AD,  and 

3.  Reign        T.  succeeded.     A  mutiny  in  the  Rhine 

legions  was  suppressed  by  German  icus. 
I  he  principal  events  of  his  reign  (see  also  below; 
were  the  campaigns  of  (Jermanicus  and  Drusus,  the 
withdrawal  of  the  Romans  to  the  Rhine,  the  settle- 
ment of  the  Armenian  quest  ion,  the  rise  and  fall  of 
Sejanus,  the  submission  of  Parthia.  In  2(5  AD,  T. 
retired  to  Capreae,  where  rumor  attributed  to  him 
every  excess  of  debauchery.  On  March  Hi,  37  AD, 
T.  died  at  Misenum  and  was  succeeded  by  Cains. 

On  the  whole,  T.  followed  the  conservative  policy 

of  Augustus  and  maintained  the  "diarchy."     But 

he  approached  nearer  to  monarchy  by 

4.  Admin-     receiving  supreme  power  for  an  indefi- 
istration         nite  period.     He  went,  beyond  Augus- 
tus in  practically  excluding  the  people 

from  government  by  transferring  the  right  of  elec- 
tion from  the  comitia  of  the  people  to  the  senate 
leaving  to  the  people  the  right  merely  to  acclaim 
the  nominees  of  the  senate,  and  further  by  imposing 
laws  upon  the  people  without  their  counsel  or  dis- 
cussion. He  established  a  permanent  praetorian 
camp  at  Rome — a  fact  of  great  importance  in  later 
Rom  history.  The  administration  of  T.  was  that  of 
a  wise,  intelligent  statesman  with  a  strong  sense  of 
duty.  The  civil  service  was  improved,  and  officers 
were  kept  longer  at  their  posts  to  secure  efficiency. 
Taxes  were  light  on  account  of  his  economy.  Pub- 
lic security  increased.  He  paid  attention  to  the 
administration  of  justice  and  humane  laws  were 
placed  on  the  statute-book. 

Though  T.  was  unpopular,  he  left  the  empire  in 

a  state  of  prosperity  and  peace.     Of  his  character 

the    most    opposite    views    are    held. 

5.  Character  His  fame  has  suffered    esp.  from  his 

suspecting  nature,  which  extended  the 
law  of  majestas  to  offences  against  his  person  and 
encouraged  delation,  which  made  the  latter  part  of 
his  reign  one  of  terror.  The  tyranny  of  Sejanus, 
too,  has  been  laid  upon  his  shoulders,  and  lie  has 
been  accused  of  the  wildest,  excesses  in  his  retreat 
at  Capreae — a  charge  which  seems  to  be  refuted  by 
the  fact  that  no  interruption  to  his  wise  adminis- 
tration took  place.  His  character  has  been  black- 
ened most  by  Tacitus  and  Suetonius.  But  on 
nearer  criticism  T.'s  character  will  appear  in  better 
light.  No  doubt,  toward  the  close  of  his  reign  he 
degenerated,  but  his  cruelties  affected  only  the  upper- 
classes^  He  was  called  a  tyrant,  and  was  refused 
deification  after  death,  and  Augustus  was  said  to 
have  prophesied  "Alas  for  the  Rom  people  who 
shall  be  ground  under  such  slow  jaws."  T.  was 
stern  and  taciturn,  critical  with  himself  and,  soured 

by  his  own  disappointments,  was  suspicious  of  others. 
Pliny  the  Elder  calls  him  "the  gloomiest  of  men."' 
Much  of  his  unpopularity  was  due  to  his  inscruta- 
bility, to  the  fact  that  people  could  not  understand 
him  or  penetrate  into  the  mystery  of  his  motives. 
He  rarely  took  counsel  with  anyone.  His  life  was 
frugal  and  modest — a  rebuke  to  the  contemporary 
dissipation.  He  felt  contempt  for  the  inanities  of 
court  life,  and  was  supremely  indifferent  to  public 
opinion,  but  actuated  by  a  strong  sense  of  duty. 
The  reign  of  T.  is  memorable  as  thai  in  which  fell 
Our  Lord's  public  ministry,  death  and  resurrection. 
It  also  witnessed  the  preaching  of 
6.  Tiberius  John  the  Baptist  (Lk  3  1),  the  conver- 
and  the  NT  sion  of  Paul  and  perhaps  his  first  preach- 
ing, the  martyrdom  of  Stephen  and 
the  first  Christian  persecution  (by  the  Jews).  Ti- 
berius is  mentioned  by  name  only  once  in  the  NT 
(Lk  3  1):  "the  15th  year  of  the  reign  [r}ye/M>vla, 


Tibhath 
Time 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2980 


heycmonia]  of  Tiberius."  The  question  is,  From 
what  (lute  is  this  to  be  reckoned — the  date  of  T.'s 
co-regency,  13  (or  11)  AD,  or  from  his  accession, 
14  AD?  lie  is  the  "Caesar"  mentioned  in  the  Gos- 
pels in  connection  with  Jesus'  public  ministry 
(Mkl2  14and||'s;  Jn  19  12.1")).  Herod  Ant  ipas 
built  Tiberias  in  honor  of  T.  (Jos,  Ant,  X\1I1, 
ii-iii).  It  is  unlikely  that  T.  ever  heard  anything 
about,  Christianity;  it  had  not  risen  as  yet  into 
prominence.  Early  Christian  writers  wished  to 
represent  T.,  if  not  friendly  to  the  new  faith,  at 
least  as  condemning  the  action  of  Pilate.  Accord- 
ing to  Justin  (.(/>'>!.,  i.3").),  Tertullian  (Apol.,  21) 
andEusebius  (//#,  II,  ii),  Pilate  reported  to  T.  about 
the  trial  and  crucifixion  of  Jesus — and  some  such 
report  is  not  improbable.  According  to  one  apocry- 
phal tradition,  T.  actually  summoned  Pilate  to 
Home  to  answer  for  crucifying  Jesus.  It  is  true 
that  Pilate  was  sent  to  Rome  by  the  governor  of 
Syria  to  answer  to  a  charge  of  unjustifiable  cruelty, 
but  T.  died  before  Pilate  reached  Rome. 

TnderT.,  Pal  was  governed  by  Rom  procurators. 
Toward  the  Jews  in  Italy,  T.  showed  some  intoler- 
ance.     In    19   AD   all  the  Jews  were 
7.  Tiberius    expelled  from  Rome  according  to  Jos 
and  the  (Ant,  XVIII,  iii,  /">),  from  Italy  accord- 

Jews  ing  to  Tacitus  (Ann.  ii.S">),  and  4,000 

Jewish  freedmen  were  deported  to 
Sardinia  to  reduce  bands  of  brigands.  Pliilo  at- 
tributes this  severity  to  Sejanus,  and  says  that  after 
Sejanus'  fall  T.,  recognizing  that  the  Jews  had  been 
persecuted  without  cause,  gave  orders  that  officials 
should  not  annoy  them  or  disturb  their  rites.  They 
were  therefore  probably  allowed  to  return  to  Rome 
(see  SchuriT,  III,  60 f,  4th  ed). 

LITER  \Trnr,. —  (a)  Ancient  lit.,  as  modern.  Is  divided 
on  its  estimate  of  T.;  Tac.  Annul*  i-vi;  Dio  Cassias 
Rom  Hint,  xlvi-xlviii,  and  Suetonius  Til>.  painting  him 
in  the  darkest  colors,  while  Velleius  Paterculus  II  gives 
the  other  side.  (l>)  Of  modern  lit.  it  is  enough  to  cite 
on  opposite  sides:  .1.  C\  Tarver,  Tibrriun  the  Tyrant, 
1902;  Ihne.  Ziir  EhrrnrHhuin  tlf*  K.  Til,.,  1S02,  and  tile 
moderate  estimate  of  Merivale,  Romans  undiT  the  Empire. 

S.  ANGUS 

TIBHATH,  tib'hath  (Piratf  ,  tiWihnth;  MerapTi- 
X<is,  MHalx'rht'i*,  A,  MaTtfJt'e,  .\fnl>!x't/t;  Vulg  T  he- 
bath;  Pesh  Tcbkah):  A  city  of  Hadadezer,  king  of 
Zobah,  from  which  David  took  much  of  the  brass 
used  later  by  Solomon  in  the  construction  of  the 
temple-furnishings  (1  Ch  18  8).  In  2  S  8  S  we  must 
for  the/*  'tah  of  theMT  read  with  the  Syr  Trbhah.  It 
may  be  the  same  as  the  Tuhihi  of  the  Am  Tab;  the 
Dibhit  of  the  Karnak  lists;  and  the  Tuhihi  men- 
tioned with  Kadesh  on  the  Orontes  in  the  "Travels 
of  an  Egyptian"  in  the  reign  of  Rameses  II.  The 
site  is  unknown,  but  it,  must  have  been  on  the  east- 
ern slopes  of  Anti-Lebanon,  between  which  and  the 
Euphrates  we  must  locate  Hadadezer's  kingdom  of 
Zobah.  "Tebah"  occurs  also  as  an  Aram,  personal 
or  tribal  name  in  Gen  22  24.  W.  M.  CHKISTIK 

TIBNI,  tib'nl  0^3P\ ,  tibhnl;  B,  ©ajxveC,  Thamnet, 
A,  @a|ivl,  Thamnl,  Luc.,  0a(3ew€C,  Thabcnncl): 
A  rival  of  Omri  for  the  throne  of  Israel  after  the 
death  of  Zimri  (1  K  16  21  f).  This  is  the  only 
reference  to  Tibni  that  has  come  down  to  us;  a 
comparison  of  this  passage  with  the  account  of 
Zimri's  death  (esp.  ver  l.r>)  shows  that  the  length  of 
the  struggle  was  four  years. 

TIDAL,  ti'dal  (>3Htt ,  tidh'al;  ©aX-yd,  Thalyd, 
©aX^dX,  Thalydl,  E,  ©ap^dX,  Tharydl):  Tidal  is 

mentioned  in  Cien  14  1.9  in  the  ac- 
1.  The  count  of  the  expedition  of  Chedorlao- 

Name  and  mer  of  Elam,  wit.h  his  allies,  Arnraphel 
Its  Forms  of  Shinar  (Babylonia),  Arioch  of 

Ellasar,  and  Tidal,  who  is  called  "king 
of  nations"  (AV)  (goi/im,  Tg  \tmmm).  Whether  the 


last-named  took  part  in  this  expedition  as  one^of 
Chedorlaomer's  vassals  or  not  is  unknown.  The 
Gr  form  possibly  points  to  an  earlier  pronunciation 
Tad  gal. 

The  only  name  in  the  cuneiform  inscriptions  re- 
sembling Tidal  is  Tudhula,  or,  as  it  was  probably 
later  pronounced,  Tudhul.     This,  from 

2.  Its  Baby-  its  form,  might  be  Sumerian,  meaning 
Ionian  "evil  progeny,"  or  the  like.     In  addi- 
Equivalent     tion  to  the  improbability  of  a  name 

with  such  a  signification,  however,  his 
title  "king  of  <jdi/im,"  or  "nations,"  in  Gen  14  1, 
presupposes  a  ruler  of  another  race. 

The    inscription    in    which    the    name    Tudhula 

occurs  is  one  of  three  of  late  date  (4th  to  3d  cent. 

BC),  all  referring,  apparently,  to  the 

3.  The  same   historical  period.     The   text   in 
Babylonian    question  (>S/>.  iii. 2)  is  of  unbaked  clay, 
Tudhula         and    is    broken    and    defaced.     After 
and  His          referring  to  a  ruler  who  did  not  main- 
Time  tain  the  temples,  Durmah-ilfuii  son  of 

Eri-Aku  (Arioch)  is  referred  to,  ap- 
parently as  one  who  ravaged  the  country,  and 
"waters  [came]  over  Babylon  and  E-sagila,"  its 
great  temple.  The  words  which  follow  suggest  that 
Durmah-ilani  was  slain  by  his  son,  after  which  a 
new  invader  appeared,  who  would  seem  to  have 
been  Twlhnla,  son  of  Gazza(ni?).  He  likewise 
ravaged  the  land,  and  floods  again  invaded  Baby- 
lon and  E-sagila.  To  all  appearance  he  met  with 
the  fate  which  overtook  Durmah-ilani — death  at 
the  hands  of  his  son,  who  "smote  his  head."  Then 
came  the  Elamite,  apparently  Chedorlaomer,  who 
was  likewise  slain.  This  inscription,  therefore,  gave 
historical  ((notations  of  the  fate  which  overtook 
those  who  were  regarded  as  enemies  of  the  gods. 

Though  we  have  here  the  long-sought  name  of 

Tidal,  it  may  legitimately  be  doubted  whether  this 

personage  was  the  ruler  of  that  name 

4.  Doubts      mentioned  in  Gen  14.     The  "nations" 
as  to  His        (yf>!/im)  which  he  ruled  are  regarded  by 
Identity          Sayce  as  having  been  wandering  hordes 

(umtnan  ma/nla),  probably  Modes. 
On  the  other  hand,  t  he  occurrence  of  the  name  Dud- 
halia,  son  of  IJattusil  (Khetasir),  contemporary  of 
Rameses  II,  in  the  inscriptions  found  at  Hattu,  the 
capital  of  the  Ilittites,  suggests  that  that  extensive 
confederation  may  have  been  the  "nations"  referred 
to.  In  other  words,  Tidal  or  Tudhula  (for  Dud- 
halia)  was  an  earlier  ruler  bearing  the  same  name  as 
HattuM's  son.  If  he  be,  as  is  possible,  the  same 

personage  as  is  mentioned  in  (Jen  14, 
6.  Probably  he  must  have  fought  against  Arioch's 
a  Hittite  son,  conquered  his  domains  and  been 

killed,  in  his  turn,  by  either  the  Bib. 
Chedorlaomer  or  another  Elamite  ruler  bearing  the 
same  or  a  similar  name.  See  AMRAPHEL;  Aiuoeu; 
CHEUOKLAOMKK;  Eui-AKu;  NATIONS. 

T.  G.  PINCHES 
TIDINGS,  tl'dingz,  GLAD.     See  GLAD  TIDINGS. 

TIGLATH-PILESER,  tig-lath-pi-le'zer,  -p!-le'zer 
pCX*S  r,b:»n  ,  tiahlalh  pil'cscr.  as  the  name  is  read 
in  "2  K,  "Cr^E  r,:£n,  UUfghath  pilnesir,  in  2  Ch; 
LXX  'AXVaO^tXXao-dp,  Algathphellasur;  Assyr, 
Tukulti-abal-i-sarra):  King  of  Assyria  in  the  days 
of  Menahem,  Pekahiah,  and  Pekah,  kings  of  Israel, 
and  of  Vzziah,  Jothain  and  Ahaz,  kings  of  Judah. 
The  king  of  Assyria,  whom  the  historian  of  2  K 
knows  as  exacting  tribute  from  Menahem,  is  Pul 
(2  K  15  19  f).  In  the  days  of  Pekah  who  had 
usurped  the  throne  of  Menahem's  son  and  successor, 
Pekahiah,  the  king  of  Assyria  is  known  as  Tiglath- 
pileser,  who  invaded  Naphtali  and  carried  the  in- 
habitants captive  to  Assyria  (2  K  16  29).  This 


2981 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tibhath 
Time 


Titflath-Pilescr 
I  (from  Rock 
Tablet  near 
Korkhar). 


invasion  is  described  by  the  Chronicler  (1  Ch  5 
25  f)  rather  differently,  to  the  effect  that  "the  God 
of  Israel  stirred  up  the  spirit  of  Pul  king  of  Assyria, 
and  the  spirit  of  Tilgat  h-pilneser  king  of  Assyria, 
and  he  carried  them  away,  even  the  Reubenites, 
and  the  Gadites,  and  the  half-tribe  of  Manasseh, 
and  brought  them  unto  Halah,  and 
Habor,  and  Hara,  and  to  the  river 
of  Gozan,  unto  this  day."  St  ill  later 
we  find  Pekah  forming  a  coalition 
with  Rezin,  king  of  Damascus,  into 
which  they  tried  to  force  Ahaz,  even 
going  the  length  of  besieging  him  in 
Jerus  (2  K  16  5).  The  siege  was 
unsuccessful.  Ahaz  called  in  the  aid 
of  Tiglath-pileser,  sacrificing  his 
independence  to  get  rid  of  the  in- 
vaders (2  K  16  7.8).  He  offered 
the  Assyrian  the  silver  and  gold 
that  were  found  in  the  house  of  the; 
Lord  and  in  the  royal  treasury;  and 
Tiglath-pileser,  in  return,  invaded 
the  territories  of  Damascus  and 
Israel  in  the  rear,  compelling  the  allied  forces  to 
withdraw  from  Judah,  while  he  captured  Damascus, 
ami  carried  the  people  away  to  Kir  and  slew  Rezin 
(2  K  16  9).  It  was  on  the  occasion  of  his  visit  to 
Damascus  to  do  homage  to  his  suzerain  Tiglath- 
pileser,  that  Ahaz  fancied  the  idolatrous  altar,  a 
pattern  of  which  he  sent  to  Urijah,  the  priest,  that 
he  might  erect  an  altar  to  take  the  place  of  the 
bra/en  altar  which  was  before  the  Lord  in  the 
temple  at  Jcrus.  It  is  a  significant  comment  which 
is  made  by  the  Chronicler  (2  Ch  28  21)  upon  the 
abject  submission  of  Ahaz  to  the  Assyrian  king: 
"It  helped  him  not," 

From  the  inscriptions  we  learn  particulars  which 
afford  striking  corroboration  of  the  Bib.  narrative 
and  clear  up  some  of  the  difficulties  involved.  It  is 
now  practically  certain  that  Pul,  who  is  mentioned 
as  taking  tribute  from  Mcnahcm,  is  identical  with 
Tiglath-pileser  (Schrader,  COT,  I,  230,  231).  In 
all  probability  Pul,  or  Pulu,  was  a  usurper,  who  as 
king  of  Assyria  assumed  the  name  of  one  of  his 
predecessors,  Tiglath-pileser  I,  and  reigned  as  Tig- 
lath-pilcscr  III.  This  king  of  Assyria,  who  reigned, 
as  we  learn  from  his  annals,  from  745  BC  to  727  BC, 
was  one  of  the  greatest  of  Assyr  monarchs.  See 
ASSYRIA.  From  the  fact  that  no  fewer  than  five 
Heb  kings  are  mentioned  in  his  annals,  the  greatest 
interest  attaches  to  his  history  as  it  has  come  down 
to  us.  These  kings  are  Uzziah  or  Azariah,  and 
Jehoahaz,  that  is  Ahaz,  of  Judah;  and  Menahem, 
Pekah  and  Hoshea  of  Israel.  Along  with  them  are 
ment  ioned  their  cont  emporaries  Rezin  of  Damascus, 
Hiram  of  Tyre,  and  two  queens  of  Arabia,  other- 
wise unknown,  Zabibi  and  Samsi.  When  he  died 
in  727  BC,  he  was  succeeded  by  Shalmaneser  IV, 
who  had  occasion  to  suspect  the  loyalty  of  his  vas- 
sal Hoshea,  king  of  Israel,  and  besieged  him  in 
Samaria. 

LITERATURE. — Schrader,  COT,  I,  229-57;  McCurdy, 
Hl'M,  §§279-341. 

TIGRIS,  tl'gris  (TCypis,  Tigris,  the  Gr  equivalent 
of  the  Heb  ^jx."!!  ,  hiddckcl) :  One  of  the  rivers  of 
Eden  going  "eastward  to  Assyria"  (Gen  2  14m), 
called  the  Great  River  (Dnl  10  4),  elsewhere  men- 
tioned in  the  apocryphal  books,  as  in  Tob  6  1 ; 
Jth  1  6;  Ecclus  24  25,  called  Diglath  in  Jos,  and 
Diglit  in  Pliny,  now  called  in  Mesopotamia  Dijlcfi, 
generally  supposed  to  be  a  Sem  corruption  of  Tigra, 
meaning  originally  an  arrow,  which  from  its  rapid- 
ity of  motion  is  symbolized.  The  Tigris  rises  in  the 
mountains  of  Armenia,  lat,  38°  10',  long.  39°  20', 
only  a  few  miles  from  the  main  branch  of  the 


Euphrates.  After  pursuing  a  tortuous  south- 
easterly course  for  150  miles,  it  is  joined  by  the 
east  branch  at  Osman  Kieui,  some  distance  below 
Diarbekr.  Here  the  stream  is  450  ft.  wide  and  3  or 
4  ft.  deep.  Passing  through  numerous  mountain 
gorges  for  another  150  miles,  it  emerges  into  the 
region  of  low  hills  about  Nineveh,  and  a  little  below 
into  the  great  alluvial  plain  of  Mesopotamia. 
Thence  in  its  course  to  Bagdad  it  is  joined  by  the 
Great  Zab,  the  Lesser  Zab,  the  Adhem,  and  the 
Diyaleh  rivers,  bringing  a  large  amount  of  water 
from  the  Zagros  Mountains.  At  Bagdad  the  over- 
flows from  the  Euphrates  in  high  water  of  ten  increase 
the  inundations.  The  flood  season  begins  early  in 
the  month  of  March,  reaching  its  climax  about  May 

I,  declining  to  its  natural  level  by   midsummer. 
In  October  and  November,  the  volume  of  water  in- 
creases considerably,  but  not  so  much  as  to  over- 
flow  its   banks.     Below   Bagdad,   throughout   the 
region  of  Babylonia  proper,  the  Tigris  joins  with 
the  Euphrates  in  furnishing  1he  water  for  irrigation 
so    successfully    used    in    ancient   times.     English 
engineers  are  at  present  with  great  promise  of  suc- 
cess aiming  to  restore  the  irrigating  systems  of  the 
region  and  the  prosperity  of  ancient  times.     The 
total  length  of  the  river  is  1,146  miles.     It  now 
joins  the  Euphrates  about  40  miles  N.W.  of  the 
Pers  Gulf,  the  two  streams  there  forming  the  Shat 
el  Arab,  but  in  early  historical  times  they  entered 
the  Pers  Gulf  by  separate  mouths,  the  Gulf  then 
extending  a  considerable  distance  above  the  present 
junction  of  the  rivers,  the  sediment  of  the  streams 
having  silted  up  the  head  of  the  Gulf  to  that  dis- 
tance.    See  also  EDEN. 

GEORGE  FREDERICK  WRIGHT 
TIKVAH,  tik'va,   TIKVATH,    tik'vath 
tikwah,  "hope"): 

(1)  The  father-in-law  of  Huldah  the  prophetess 
(2  K  22  14)    (B,  QeKKovat,    Thckkoiiau,  A,  QeKKovt, 
Thckkoue,  Luc.,  6e/«W,  Thekouv),  called  in  2  Ch  34 
22  "Tokhath"  (K"re  T.npn  ,  K-thibh  nnplPl;   B, 
KatfovdX,   Kathoudl,    A,   QaKovdO,    Thakoudth,    Luc., 
QfKu/l,  Thekoe).     The  reading  of  2  K  is  to  be  pre- 
ferred. 

(2)  The   father   of    Jahzeiah    (Ezr    10    15)     (B, 
'E\K«d,  Helkeid,  A,  6e/cou<?,   Thckoue,  called    "The- 
ocanus,"  RV  "Thocanus"  in  1   Esd  9  14). 

TILE,  til,  TILING,  til'ing  (H^b  ,  I'bhenah  , 
"brick,"  Ezk  4  1  ;  K6pap.os,  ktmmox,  "potter's  clay," 
"a  tile,"  Lk  6  19).  See  EZEKIEL,  II,  1,  (2);  HOUSE, 

II,  1,  (10). 

TILGATH-PILNESER,  til'gath-pil-ne'zer,  -ser. 
See  TIULATH-PILE.SEK. 

TILLAGE,  til'aj.     See  AGRICULTURE. 


TILON,  ti'lon    (  ]ln  ,    tlldn;    K«thibh 
Kere  "pS^n  ;   B,  'Iviov,  Jnon,  A,  QiXcSv,  Thildn,  Luc., 
0o)\€C(i,  Tholeim'):    A  son  of  Shimon  (1  Ch  4  20). 

TIMAEUS,  tl-me'us  (Tijicuos,  Timalos  [Mk  10 
46];  EV  "Timaeus").  See  BARTIMAEUS. 

TIMBREL,  tim'brel.     Sec  Music,  III,  3,  (1). 

TIME,  tlm:  The  basis  of  the  Heb  measurement 
of  time  wras  the  day  and  the  lunar  month,  as 
with  the  Semites  generally.  The  division  of  the 
day  into  hours  was  late,  probably  not  common  until 
after  the  exile,  although  the  sun-dial  of  Ahaz  (2  K 
20  9;  Isa  38  8)  would  seem  to  indicate  some 
division  of  the  day  into  periods  of  some  sort,  as  we 
know  the  night  was  divided.  The  word  used  for 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Time 
Timothy 


"hour"  is  Aram.  S7 TO ,  she*a'  (XPl"tt) ,  sha'ta'),  and 
docs  not  occur  in  the  OT  until  the  Book  of  Dnl 
(4  33;   6  5),  and  even  there  it  stands  for  an  indefi- 
nite period  for  which  "time"  would  answer  as  well. 
The  term  "day"  (2T  ,  yom.)  was  in  use  from  the 
earliest  times,  as  is  indicated  in  the  story  of  the 
Creation    (Gen  1).      It  there   doubt- 

1.  The  Day  less  demotes  an  indefinite  period,  but 

is  marked  off  by  "evening  arid  morn- 
ing" in  accordance1  with  what  we  know  wras  the 
method  of  reckoning  the  day  of  24  hours,  i.e.  from 
sunset  to  sunset. 

The  night  was  divided,  during  preexilic  times,  into 
three  divisions  called  watches  (rVTTCTCX  ,  'ashmurah, 

fn^TpX ,  'ashmaret.fi),  making  periods 

2.  Night        of   varying  length,   as  the  night  was 

longer  or  shorter  (Jgs  7  19).  This 
division  is  referred  to  in  various  passages  of  the 
OT,  but  nowhere  with  indication  of  definite  limits 
(see  Ps  90  4;  119  14S;  Jer  61  12;  Ilab  2  1). 
In  the  XT  we  find  the  Rom  division  of  the  night 
in\,o  four  watches  (0uAaKiJ,  phiilakf,)  in  use  (Mt  14 
25;  Mk  6  4S),  but  it  is  probable  that  the  former 
division  still  persisted.  The  use  of  the  term  "day" 
for  the  period  from  sunrise  to  sunset,  or  for  day  as 
distinguished  from  night,  was  common,  as  at  present 
(Josh  10  13;  Ps  19  2;  Prov  4  18;  Isa  27  3;  Jn 
9  4,  etc).  But  the  use  of  the  word  in  the  in- 
definite sense,  as  in  the  expressions:  "day  of  the 
Lord,"  "in  that  day,"  "the  day  of  judgment,"  etc, 
is  far  more  frequent  (see  DAY).  Other  more  or  less 
indefinite  periods  of  the  day  and  night  arc:  dawn, 
dawning  of  the  day,  morning,  evening,  noonday, 
midnight,  cock-crowing  or  crowing  of  the  cock, 
break  of  day,  etc. 

The  weekly  division  of  time,  or  the  seven-day 
period,  was  in  use  very  early  and  must  have  been 

known    to    the    Hebrews    before    the 

3.  Week        Mosaic  Law,  since  it  was  in  use  in 

Babylonia  before  the  davs  of  Abraham 
and  is  indicated  in  the  story  of  the  Creation.  The 
Heb  yiltJ  ,  shdbhua\  used  in  the  OT  for  "week,"  is 
derived  from  5"5^ ,  shcbha*,  the  word  for  "seven." 
As  the  seventh  day  was  a  day  of  rest,  or  Sabbath 
(Heb  ri3UJ ,  shabbdth],  this  word  came  to  be  used 
for  "week,"  as  appears  in  the  NT  (cra(3(3aT6v,-Td,  sab- 
baton, -ta),  indicating  the  period  from  Sabbath  to 
Sabbath  (Mt  28  1).  The  same  usage  is  implied 
in  the  OT_(Lev  23  15;  25  S).  The  days  of  the 
week  were  indicated  by  the  numerals,  first,  second, 
etc,  save  the  seventh,  which  was  the  Sabbath.  In 
XT  times  Friday  was  called  the  day  of  preparation 
(irapaffKfvf/,  paraskcu?)  for  the  Sabbath  (Lk  23  54). 
The  monthly  division  of  time  was  determined,  of 
course,  by  the  phases  of  the  moon,  the  appearance 

of  the  new  moon  being  the  beginning 

4.  Month      of  the  month,  TD™n ,  hodhcsh.     Another 

term  for  month  was  ycrah  (H^), 
meaning  "moon,"  which  was  older  and  derived  from 
the  Phoen  usage,  but  which  persisted  to  late  times, 
since  it  is  found  in  the  Aram,  inscriptions  of  the  3d 
cent.  AD  in  Syria.  The  names  of  the  months  were 
Bab  and  of  late  origin  among  the  Hebrews,  prob- 
ably coming  into  use  during  and  after  the  Captivity. 
But  they  had  other  names,  of  earlier  use,  derived 
from  the  Phoenicians,  four  of  which  have  survived 
in  "Abib,"  "Ziv,"  "Ethanim"  and  "Bui"  (sec 
CALENDAR). 

The  Heb  year  (HITE  ,  sJidndh)  was  composed  of  12 
or  13  months,  the  latter  being  the  year  when  an 

intercalary  month  was  added  to  make 
6.  Year  the  lunar  correspond  with  the  solar 

year.  As  the  difference  between  the 
two  was  from  ten  to  eleven  days,  this  required  the 


2982 


addition  of  a  month  once  in  about  three  years,  or 
seven  in  nineteen  years.  This  month  was  added  at 
the  vernal  equinox  and  was  called  after  the  month 
next  preceding,  we-'ddhar,  or  the  "second  Adar." 
We  do  not  know  when  this  arrangement  was  first 
adopted,  but  it  was  current  after  the  Captivity. 
There  were  two  years  in  use,  the  civil  and  the  ritual, 
or  sacred  year.  The  former  began  in  the  autumn, 
as  would  appear  from  Ex  23  16;  34  22,  where  it 
is  stated  that  the  "feast  of  ingathering"  should  be 
at  the  end  of  the  year,  and  the  Sabbatic  year  began 
in  the  7th  month  of  the  calendar  or  sacred  year, 
which  would  correspond  to  September-October  (Lev 
25  9).  Jos  says  (Ant,  I,  iii,  3)  that  Moses  desig- 
nated Nisan  (March-April)  as  the  1st  month  of  the 
festivals,  i.e.  of  the  sacred  year,  but  preserved  the 
original  order  of  the  months  for  ordinary  affairs, 
evidently  referring  to  the  civil  year.  This  usage 
corresponds  to  that  of  the  Turkish  empire,  where 
the  sacred  year  is  lunar  and  begins  at  different 
seasons,  but  the  financial  and  political  year  begins 
in  March  O.S.  The  beginning  of  the  year  was 
called  njlEH  TUSH  ,  ro'sh  ha-shdndh,  and  was  deter- 
mined by  the  priests,  as  was  the  beginning  of  the 
month.  Originally  this  was  done  by  observation 
of  the  moon,  but,  later,  calculation  was  cm- 
ployed  in  connection  with  it,  until  finally  a  system 
based  on  accurate  calculation  was  adopted,  which 
was  not  until  the  4th  cent.  AD.  New-Year  was 
regarded  as  a  festival.  See  ASTRONOMY,  I,  5; 
YEAR. 

The  return  of  the  seasons  was  designated  by 
summer  and  winter,  or  seed-time  and  harvest;  for 
they  were  practically  the  same.  There 
6.  Seasons  is,  in  Pal,  a  wet  season,  extending  from 
October  to  March  or  April,  and  a  dry 
season  comprising  the  remainder  of  the  year.  The 
first  is  the  winter  (CHn  ,  horcpli),  and  this  is  the 
seed-time  (^jT,  zcra'),  csp.  thefirst  part  of  it  called 
yorch  (•"HI"1) ,  or  the  time  of  the  early  rain;  the 
second  is  the  summer  (f  7|? ,  kayiQ,  "fruit-harvest," 
or  "V?j<  ,  l'd£ir,  "harvest"). 

Seed-time  begins  as  soon  as  the  early  rains  have 
fallen  in  sufficient  quantity  to  moisten  the  earth  for 
plowing,  and  the  harvest  begins  in  some  parts,  as 
in  the  lower  Jordan  region,  near  the  Dead  Sea, 
about  April,  but  on  the  high  lands  a  month  or  two 
later.  The  fruit  harvest  comes  in  summer  proper 
and  continues  until  the  rainy  season.  "The  time 
when  kings  go  out  to  war"  (2  S  11  1 ;  1  K  20  22) 
probably  refers  to  the  end  of  the  rainy  season  in 
Nisan. 

We  have  no  mention  in  the  OT  of  any  era  for  time 
reckoning,  and  wo  do  not  find  any  such  usage  until  the 

time  of  the  Maccabees.  There  are  occa- 
7  No  "Rra  slonal  references  to  certain  events  which 
I.  110  r-r<t  might  have  served  for  eras  had  they  been 

generally  adopted.  Such  was  the  Exodus 
in  the  account  of  the  building  of  the  temple  (1  K  6  1) 
and  the  Captivity  (Ezk  33  21;  40  1)  and  the  Earth- 
quake (Am  1  1).  Dates  were  usually  fixed  by  tho  regnal 
years  of  the  kings,  and  of  the  Pcrs  kings  after  tho  Captiv- 
ity. When  Simon  tho  Maccabee  became  independent  of 
the  Seleucid  kings  in  1415-142  or  139-138  BC,  he  seems  to 
have  established  an  era  of  his  own,  if  we  may  attribute 
to  him  a  series  of  coins  dated  by  the  years  "of  the  inde- 
pendence of  Israel"  (see  COINS:  MONEY;  also  1  Mace 
13  41  and  15  6.10).  The  Jews  doubtless  were  familiar 
with  tho  Seleucid  era,  which  began  In  312  BC,  and  with 
some  of  tho  local  eras  of  the  Phoen  cities,  but  we  have  no 
evidence  that  they  made  use  of  them.  The  era  of  the 
Creation  was  not  adopted  by  them  until  after  the  time 
of  Christ.  This  was  fixed  at  3,830  years  before  the 
destruction  of  the  later  temple,  or  3760  BC.  See 
ERA. 

II.  PORTER 
TIME,  LAST.     See  LAST  TIME. 

TIME,  TIMES  AND  A  HALF  (Dnl  12  7;  cf 
7  25;  Rev  12  14):  A  luni-solar  cycle.  See  AS- 
TRONOMY, I,  5. 


20S3 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


TIMES,     OBSERVER    OF.     See     DIVINATION 
MAGIC. 

TIMNA,  tim'na  (^'EP. ,  tinma* ;  ©a^vd,  Thatnnd): 
A  concubine  of  Eliphaz,  Esau's  won,  and  (he  mother 
of  Amalek  (Gen  36  12).  But  in  Con  36  22  and 
1  Cli  1  39  Tiinna  is  the  sister  of  Lolun,  and  in 
Con  36  40  and  1  Ch  1  51  a  chief  or  clan  of  Edom 
(see  TIMNAH,  [I]}).  Those  variations  are  to  be  ex- 
pected when  the  origin  of  genealogies  is  recalled. 
(In  Con  EV  reads,  contrary  to  rule,  "Tinmah.") 
Gunkel's  theory  is  that  Gen  36  12«  is  a  later  inser- 
tion in  P. 

TIMNAH,  tim'na  (n:rP,,  limnah,  nnrSP, ,  tim- 
nathah  [Josh  19  43;  Jgs  14  1.2.5],  "allotted  por- 
tion"; B,  ©ajivdOa,  Thamndtha,  also  several  Cr 
variations;  AV  has  Timnath  in  Con  38  12.13.14; 
Jgs  14  1.2.5;  and  Thimnathah  in  Josh  19  43): 

(1)  A  town  in  the  southern  part  of  the  hill  country 
of  Judah  (Josh  15  57).     Tibna  proposed  by  Condor, 
a  ruin  8  miles  W.  of  Bethlehem,  seems  too  far  N 
(PEF,  III,  53,  Sh  XVII).     It  is  possible  this  may 
be  the  "Timnah"  of  Con  38  12.13.14. 

(2)  A   town  on   the   northern    border  of   Judah 
(Josh  15  10),    lying    between     Both-shemesh    and 
Ekron.     It  is  probably  the  same  Timnah  as  Judah 
visited  (Con  38  12-14),  and  certainly  the  scene  of 
Samson's  adventures   (Jgs  14   If);    his   "father-in- 
law"   is  called  a  "Timnite"    (Jgs  15  0).     At   this 
time    the    place    is    clearly    Philistine    (Jgs  14  1), 
though  in  Josh  19  43  it  is  reckoned  to  Dan.     Being 
on  the  frontier,  it  probably  changed  hands  several 
times.     In  2  Ch  28  18  it  was  captured  from  the 
Philis  by  Ahaz,  and  we  learn  from  Assyr  evidence 
(Prison   Inscription)   that  Sennacherib  captured  a 
Tamna  after  the  battle  of  Altoka  before  he  besieged 

Ckron  (Schrader,  Die  Keilinschriflcn  und  das  AT, 
170).  The  site  is  undoubted.  It  is  now  a  deserted 
ruin  called  Tibneh  on  the  southern  slopes  of  the 
\\'diii/  cs  Kurdr  (Valley  of  Sorek),  about  2  miles  W. 
of  Both-shemesh.  There  is  a  spring,  and  there  are 
evident  signs  of  antiquity  (PEF,  II,  417,  441,  Sh 
-XV  I). 

(3)  There  was  probably  a  Timna  in  Edom  (Gen 
36  12.22.40;  1  Ch  1  39.51).     Eusebius  and  Jerome 
(Onnm)  recognized  a  Thamna  in  Edom  at  their  time. 

(4)  The    "Thamnatha"    of    1  Mace  9  50    (AV) 
is  probably  another  Timnah,  and  identical  with  the 
Thamna  of  Jos  (HJ,  III,  iii,  5;    IV,  viii,  1).     This 
is  probably  the  Tibneh,  10  miles  N.\V.  of  Bethel,  an 
extensive  ruin.  E.  W.  G.  MASTEKMAN 

TIMNATH,  tim'nath.     See  TIMNAH. 

TIMNATH-HERES,  tim-nath-he'rez,  l.-he'roz 
(E^C1  rQ'EP,  timnath  hens,  "portion  of  the  sun"; 
B,  0ajiva0dpes,  Thamnatha  res,  A,  ©afivaedp-  ifws, 
Thamnathdr;  hcos):  This  is  the  form  of  the  name 
given  to  Joshua's  property  and  place;  of  burial  in  J"-s 
2  9.  The  name  in  Josh  19  50;  24  30  is  Timnath- 
serah.  "Serah"  simply  reverses  the  order  of  the 
letters  in  "Heres."  Scholars  are  divided  in  opinion 
as  to  which  form  is  correct.  It  is  possible  that  the 
change  from  Heres  to  Serah  may  have  been  delib- 
erate, in  order  to  avoid  a  form  which  might  savor 
of  idolatry — sun-worship.  The  Jews  and  Samari- 
tans hold  that  Heres  is  the  original  form. 

W.  EWING 

TIMNATH-SERAH,  tim-nath-se'ra  (PHD  nr^P,  , 
timnath  sirah;  B,  ©a^apxapTis,  Thamarchdres,  A, 
0ap.a9<rapd,  Thamathsam) :  This  place,  assigned  as 
an  inheritance  to  Joshua,  is  described  as  being  in 
Mt.  Ephraim,  on  the  north  side  of  the  mountain  of 
Gaash  (Josh  19  50;  24  30).  Here,  when  his  work 
was  done,  the  great  leader  was  laid  to  rest.  The 


Time 
Timothy 

mountain  of  Gaash  unfortunately  cannot  be  identi- 
fied. Jos  says  that  Joshua  was  buried  at  Thamna 
a  city  of  Ephraim  (Ant,  V,  i,  29),  which  probably 
corresponds  to  Thamna,  flu;  head  of  a  Jewish 
toparchy  (ttj  ,  III,  iii,  5).  Vespasian  marched  from 
Thamnatha  to^  Lydda,  which  apparently  was  near 
(IV,  viii,  1).  The  place  was  taken  and  reduced  to 
slavery  by  Cassius  (A  til,  XIV,  xi,  2).  It  was  put 
in  charge  of  John  the  Essone  at  the  beginning  of  the 
Jewish  war  (11.J  ,  II,  xx,  4).  O,,om  (s.v.  "Thamna" 
and  "Thamnathsara")  identities  it  with  "Timnath" 
of  Gen  38  12  AV,  placing  it  in  the  mountain  in  the 
tribe  of  Dan  (or  Judah),  on  the  way  from  Diospolis 
(Lydda)  to  Jerus.  The  tomb  of  Joshua  was  still 
shown  there.  This  points  to  Tibitch,  in  the  uplands 
12  miles  N.E.  of  Lydda.  S.  of  the  village,  in  the 
face  of  a  rock,  are  a  series  of  rock-hewn  tombs,  the 
largest  of  which,  containing  14  loculi,  and  a  small 
chamber  behind  with  one  loculus,  may  be  that  asso- 
ciated with  Joshua  by  Onnm.  A  giant  oak  grows 
hard  by,  perhaps  the  greatest  tree  in  Pal.  Kcfr 
Ishu'ci,  "village  of  Joshua,"  lies  about  3  miles  to  the 
E.  ^  This  identification  is  now  generallv  accepted. 

The  Sam  tradition  points  to  the  tomb  of  Joshua 
at  Kcfr  Haris,  9  miles  S.  of  Nablus.  Outside  the 
village  to  the  E.  are  two  shrines.  One  is  called 
Ncby  Kifl,  the  other  Ncby  Kala\i.  The  former, 
"prophet  of  division,"  or  "of  the  portion."  might 
apply  to  Joshua;  the  latter  is  identified  with  Caleb. 
This  identification  assumes  that  the  first  element 
of  the  name  has  fallen  out,  the  second  only  sur- 
viving- W.  Ewixu 

TIMNITE,  tim'nlt  C^P.  ,  timnl;  ©a^vaecuos, 
Thamnathaios):  The  father  of  Samson's  wife,  a 
native  of  Timnah  (Jgs  15  G)  . 

TIMON,  tl'mon  (TC^wv,  Tlmon):  One  of  "the 
seven"  chosen  to  relieve  the  apostles  by  attending 
to  "the  daily  ministration"  to  the  poor  of  the  Chris- 
tian community  in  Jerus  (Acts  6  5).  The  name 
is  Greek,  but  as  Nicolaiis  is  distinguished  from  the 
remaining  six  as  a  proselyte,  Timon  and  the  others 
were  probably  Jews  by  birth. 


Tim6- 


TIMOTHEUS,  ti-mo'the'-us    ( 
theos)  : 

(1)  A  leader  of  the  children  of  Ammon  who  was 
on  several  occasions  severely  defeated  by  Judas 
Maccabaeus  (1  Mace  5  6ff.34ff;  2  Mace  8  30- 
9  3;  10  24;  12  2.18  ff)  in  105-103  BC.  Accord- 
ing to  2  Mace  10  37,  he  was  slain  at  Gazara  after 
having  hidden  in  a  cistern.  But  in  2  Mace  12  2 
he  is  again  at  liberty  as  an  opponent  of  the  Jews, 
and  in  12  24  f  he  falls  into  the  hands  of  Dosithous 
and  Sosipater,  but  by  representing  that  many  Jew- 
ish captives  were  at  his  mercy  and  likely  to"  suffer 
if  he  were  put  to  death,  he  is  again  released.  These 
discrepancies  are  so  great  —  though  not  unusual  in 
2  Mace  —  that  some  suppose  another  Timotheus 
is  referred  to  in  12  2  ff.  He  is  most  probably  the 
same  person,  the  careless  author  of  2  Mace  making 
a  slip  in  saying  Timotheus  was  killed  at  Gazara. 
He  probably  escaped  by  hiding  in  the  cistern.  The 
3r  name  for  an  Ammonite  leader  is  striking:  (a) 
tie  may  have  been  a  genuine  Ammonite  with  a  Gr 
lame,  or  (b)  a  Syro-Maoedonian  officer  placed  by 
Syrian  authority  over  the  Ammonites,  or  (r)  a  Gr 
soldier  of  fortune  invited  by  the  Ammonites  to  be 
;heir  commander. 
(2)  See  next  article.  S.  Axcrs 


TIMOTHY,     tim'6-thi     (Ti^os,      Timnthcos 

\cts  17  14;     18  5;     19  22;     20  4;     Rom  16  21; 

1  Cor  4  17;    16  10;    2  Cor  1  1.19;    Phil  11;    2 

19;    Col  11;    IThossll;    3  2.G;    2  Thess  1  1; 

1  Tim  1  2.18;    6  20;    2  Tim  1  2;    Philem  ver  1; 


Timothy 
Tiphsah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2984 


He  13  23;    AV  Timotheus):    Timothy  was  one  of 
the  best  known  of  Paul's  companions  and  fellow- 
laborers.     He    was    evidently    one    of 

1.  One  of      Paul's  own  converts,  as  the  apostle  de- 
Paul's  scribes  him  as  his  beloved  and  faithful 
Converts        son  in  the  Lord  (1  Cor  4  17);   and  in 

1  Tim  1  2  he  writes  to  "Timothy  my 
true  child  in  faith";  and  in  2  Tim  1  2  he  addresses 
him  as  "Timothy  my  beloved  child." 

He  was  a  resident ,  and  apparently  a  native,  either 
of  Lystra  or  Derbe,  cities  which  were  visited  and 

evangelized   by  Paul  on  his   1st   mis- 

2.  A  Native  sionary    journey    (Acts  14  (5).     It    is 
of  Lystra       probable  that  of  these  two  cities,  it 

was  Lystra  that  was  T.'s  native  place. 
For  instance,  in  Acts  20  4  in  a  list  of  Paul's  friends 
there  are  the  names  of  "Cains  of  Derbe,  and 
Timothy";  this  evidently  infers  that  T.  was  not 
"<if  Derbe."  And  in  Acts  16  3,  the  brethren  who 
gave  Paul  the  good  report  of  T.  were  "at  Lystra 
and  Iconium";  the  brethren  from  Derbe  are  not 
mentioned.  Lystra  was  evidently  T.'s  native  city. 
In  2  Tim  3'  10.11  Paul  mentions  that  T.  had 
fully  known  the  persecutions  and  afflictions  which 

came  to  him  at  Antioch,  at  Iconium  and 

3.  Convert-  at  Lystra.    These  persecutions  occurred 
ed  at  Lystra  during  the  apostle's  first  visit  to  these 

towns;  and  T.  seems  to  have  been  one 
of  those  who  were  converted  at  that  time,  as  we  find 
that  on  Paul's  next  visit,  to  Lystra  and  Derbe,  T. 
was  already  one  of  the  Christians  there:  "He  came 
also  to  Derbe  and  to  Lystra:  and  behold  a  certain 
disciple  was  there,  named  Timothy"  (Acts  16  1). 

T.  was  now  chosen  by  Paul  to  be  one  of  his  com- 
panions. This  was  at  an  early  period  in  Paul's 
apostolic  career,  and  it  is  pleasing  to  find  that  to  the 
end  of  the  apostle's  life  T.  was  faithful  to  him. 

T.'s  father    was    a    heathen   Greek   (Hcllctt,    not 

Hellenistes,  a  Cr-speaking  Jew);    this  fact   is  twice 

mentioned  (Acts  16  1.3).     His  mother 

4.  His  was  a  Jewess,   but   he  had  not  been 
Father  and    circumcised  in  infancy,   probably  ow- 
Mother  ing  to  objections  made  by  his  father. 

T.'s  mother  was  called  Eunice,  and 
his  grandmother  Lois.  Paul  mentions  them  by 
name  in  2  Tim  1  5;  he  there  speaks  of  the  un- 
feigned faith  which  was  in  T.,  and  which  dwelt 
at  the  first  in  Eunice  and  Lois.  It  is  evident  that 
Eunice  was  converted  to  Christ  on  Paul's  1st  mis- 
sionary journey  to  Derbe  and  Lystra,  because,  when 
he  next,  visited  these  cities,  she  is  spoken  of  as  "a, 
Jewess  who  believed"  (Acts  16  1). 

On  this  2d  visit  to  Derbe  and  Lystra,  Paul  was 

strongly  attracted  to  T.,  and  seeing  his  unfeigned 

faith,   and  that  from  a  child  he  had 

5.  Becomes  known   the   sacred   Scriptures   of   the 
a  Co-worker  OT  (2  Tim  3  If)),  and  seeing  also  his 
with  Paul       Christian   character   and  deportment, 

and  his  entire  suitability  for  the  work 
of  the  ministry,  he  would  have  him  "to  go  forth  with 
him"  (Acts  16  3).  T.  acquiesced  in  Paul's  desire, 
and  as  preliminaries  to  his  work  as  a  Christian  mis- 
sionary, both  to  Jew  ami  Gentile,  two  things  were 
done.  In  order  to  conciliate  the  Jewish  Christians, 
who  would  otherwise  have  caused  trouble,  which 
would  have  weakened  T.'s  position  and  his  work  as 
a  preacher  of  the  gospel,  Paul  took  Timothy  and 

circumcised  him.     Paul  was  willing  to 

6.  Circum-    agree  to  this  being  done,  on  account  of 
cised  the  fact  that  T.'s  mother  was  a  Jewess. 

It,  was  therefore  quite  a  different  case 
from  that  of  Titus,  where  Paul  refused  to  allow  cir- 
cumcision to  be  performed  (15  2) — Titus  being,  un- 
like T.,  a  Gentile  by  birth.  See  TITUS. 

The  other  act  which  was  performed  for  T.'s 
benefit,  before  he  set  out  with  Paul,  was  that  he 
was  ordained  by  the  presbytery  or  local  council 


of  presbyters  in  Derbe  and  Lystra.     Showing  the 

importance    which    Paul   assigned    to   this   act   of 

ordination,  he  refers  to  it  in  a  letter 

7.  His  Or-     to  T.  written  many  years  afterward: 
dination          "Neglect  not  the  gift  that  is  in  thee, 

which  was  given  thee  by  prophecy,  with 
the  laying  on  of  the  hands  of  the  presbytery" 
(1  Tim  4  14).  In  this  ordination  Paul  himself 
took  part,  for  he  writes,  "I  put  thee  in  remembrance, 
that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of  God,  which  is  in  thee 
through  the  laying  on  of  my  hands"  (2  Tim  1  G). 

"2  Tim  1  b'  should  be  viewed  in  the  light  of 
1  Tim  4  14.  Probably  it  was  prophetic  voices 
(through  prophecy;  cf  1  Tim  1  18,  '(iccortiinr/  to 
the  prophecies  which  went  before  in  regard  to  thee') 
which  suggested  the  choice  of  Timothy  as  assistant 
of  Paul  and  Silvanus,  and  his  consecration  to  this 
work  with  prayer  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  (cf 
Acts  13  2  f).  The  laying  on  of  hands  by  the  pres- 
byters (1  Tim  4  14),  and  that  by  Paul  (2  Tim  1  (>), 
are  not  mutually  exclusive,  esp.  since  the  former  is 
mentioned  merely  as  an  accompanying  circum- 
stance of  his  endowment  with  special  grace,  the 
latter  as  the  efficient  cause  of  this  endowment. 
The  churches  in  the  neighborhood  of  T.'s  home, 
according  to  Acts  14  23,  had  been  furnished  with 
a  body  of  presbyters  soon  after  their  founding" 
(Zahn,*  Intro  to  the  NT,  11,  23). 

Thus  prepared  for  the  work,  T.  went  forth  with 

Paul  on  the  apostle's  2d  missionary  journey.     \\u 

find  T.  with  him  at  Beniea  (Acts  17  14), 

8.  Accom-     having    evidently    accompanied    him 
panics  Paul  to  all  places  visited  by  him  up  to  that 

point,  viz.  Phrygia,  the  region  of 
Galatia,  Mysia,  Troas,  Neapolis,  Philippi,  Amphip- 
olis,  Apollonia,  Thessalonica  and  Bercea.  Paul  next 
went — and  went  alone,  on  account  of  the  persecu- 
tion at  Bercea — to  Athens  (Acts  17  1"));  and  from 
that  city  he  sent  a  message  to  Silas  and  T.  _at 
Beroea,  that  they  should  come  to  him  at  Athens  with 
all  speed.  They  quickly  came  to  him  there,  and 
were  immediately  sent  on  an  errand  to  the  church 
in  Thessalonica;  "When  we  could  no  longer  forbear, 
we  thought  it  good  to  be  left  behind  at  Athens 
alone;  and  sent  T.,  our  brother,  and  minister  of  God, 
and  our  fellow-labourer  in  the  gospel  of  Christ,  to 
establish  you,  and  to  comfort  you  concerning  your 
faith:  that  no  man  should  be  moved  by  these  afflic- 
tions" (1  Thess  3  1.2.3  AV).  T.  and  Silas  dis- 
charged this  duty  and  returned  to  the  apostle,  bring- 
ing him  tidings' of  the  faith  of  the  Christians  in 
Thessalonica,  of  their  love  and  of  their  kind  remem- 
brance of  Paul,  and  of  their  ardent  desire  to  see 
him;  and  Paul  was  comforted  (vs.  5.6.7). 

Paul  had  left  Athens  before  Silas  and  T.  were  able 

to  rejoin  him.     He  had  proceeded  to  Corinth,  and 

it  was  while  the  apost  le  was  in  that  cit  y , 

9.  At  that  "when   Silas   and  Timothy  came 
Corinth  down  from  Macedonia,  Paul  was  con- 
strained by  the  word,  testifying  to  the 

Jews  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ"  (Acts  18  5).  T. 
evidently  remained  with  Paul  during  the  year  and 
six  months  of  his  residence  in  Corinth,  and  also 
throughout  this  missionary  journey  to  its  end.  From 
Corinth  Paul  wrote  the  Ep.  to  the  Rom,  and  he  sent 
them  a  salutation  from  T.,  "Timothy  my  fellow- 
worker  saluteth  you"  (Rom  16  21). 

In  connection  with  this  salutation  from  T.,   it 
should  be  noticed  that  it  was  Paul's  custom  to  asso- 
ciate with  his  own  name  that  of  one 

10.  Salu-       or  more  of  his  companions,  in  the  open- 
tations  ing  salutations  in  the  Epp.     T.'s  name 

occurs  in  2  Cor  1  1;  Phil  1  1;  Col  1  1; 
Philem  ver  1.  It  is  also  found,  along  with  that  of 
Silvanus,  in  1  Thess  1  1  and  2  _  Thess  1  1. 

On  Paul's  3d  missionary  Journey,  T.  again 
accompanied  him,  though  he  is  not  mentioned  till 


2985 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Timothy 
Tiphsah 


Ephosus  was  reached.     This  journey  involved  much 

traveling,  much  work  and  much  time.     At  Ephesus 

alone  more  than  two  years  were  spent. 

11.  At  And  when  Paul's  residence  there  was 
Ephesus         drawing   to  a  close,  he  laid  his  plans 

to  go  to  Jerus,  after  passing  en  route 
through  Macedonia  and  Achaia.  Accordingly  he 
sent  on  before  him  "into  Macedonia  two  of  them 
that  ministered  unto  him,  Timothy  and  Krastus" 
(Acts  19  22).  From  Ephesus  Paul  wrote  the  First 
Ep.  to  the  Cor  (1  Cor  16  8),  and  in  it  he 

mentioned  (ver  10)  that  T.  was  then 

12.  To  traveling    to    Corinth,    apparently    a 
Corinth           prolongation  of  the  journey  into  Mace- 
Again              donia.     After  commending  him   to   a 

kind  reception  from  the  Corinthians, 
Paul  proceeded  to  say  that  T.  was  to  return  to  him 
from  Corinth;  that  is,  T.  was  to  bring  with  him  a 
report  on  the  state  of  matters  in  the  Corinthian 
church. 

Soon  thereafter  the  riot  in  Ephesus  occurred; 
and  when  it  was  over,  Paul  left  Ephesus  ami  went 

to  Macedonia  and  Greece.     In  Mace- 

13.  In  donia  he  was  rejoined  by  T.,  whose 
Greece  name  is  associated  with  his  own,  in  the 

opening  salutation  of  the  Second  Ep., 
which  he  now  wrote  to  Corinth.  T.  accompanied 
him  into  Greece,  where  they  abode  three  months. 
From  Greece  the  apostle  once  more  set  his  face 
toward  Jerus,  T.  and  others  accompanying  him 
(Acts  20  4).  "We  that  were  of  Paul's  company" 
(Acts  21  8  AV),  as  Luke  terms  the  friends  who  now 
traveled  with  Paul — and  T.  was  one  of  them — 
touched  at  Troas  and  a  number  of  other  places,  and 

eventually  reached  Jerus,  where  Paul 

14.  In  was  apprehended.     This  of  course  ter- 
Jerusalem     minated,   for   the   time,   his    apostolic 

journeys,  but  not  the  cooperation  of 
his  friends,  or  of  T.  among  them. 

The  details  of  the  manner  in  which  T.  was  now  em- 
ployed are  not  recorded,  until  he  is  found  once  more 
with   Paul — during   his    1st  imprisonment 

15  Tn'Rnmpm  Rome-     But,  from  that  point  onward, 

lc  there   are   many   notices   of   how  he   was 

occupied  in  the  apostle's  service.  '  He  is 

mentioned  in  three  of  the  Epp.  written  by  Paul  at  this 

time,  viz.  in  Col  1  1,  and  Philem  ver  1,  in  both  of  which  his 

designation  is  "Timothy  our  brother,"  and  in  Phil  1   1, 

"Paul  and  Timothy,  servants  of  Christ  Jesus."     In  Phil 

219,  there  is  the  interesting  notice  that,  at  a  time  when 

Paul's  hope  was  that  ho  would  soon  be  liberated  from  his 

imprisonment,  he  trusted  that  he  would  be 

16  To  Visit  anl(!  to  scnrl   T-   to  visit  tne  church  at 
•r,,'.,.  Philippi:    "I  hope  in  the  Lord  Jesus  to 
.fnillppi           sencj   Timothy   shortly   unto   you,    that   I 

also  may  be  of  good  comfort,  when  I  know 
your  state.  For  I  have  no  man  likeminded,  who  will 

care  truly  for  your  state But  ye  know  the  proof 

of  him,  that,  as  a  child  scrvoth  a  father,  so  he  served 
with  me  in  furtherance  of  the  gospel.  Him  therefore  I 
hope  to  send  forthwith." 

Paul's  hope  was  realized:  he  was  set  free;  and 
once  again  T.  was  his  companion  in  travel.  Per- 
haps it  was  in  Philippi  that  they  re- 
17.  Ap-  joined  each  other,  for  not  only  had 
pointed  to  Paul  expressed  his  intention  of  sending 
Ephesus  T.  there,  but  he  had  also  said  that  he 
hoped  himself  to  visit  the  Philippian 
church  (Phil  1  26;  2  24).  From  this  point  on- 
ward it  is  difficult,  perhaps  impossible,  to  trace 
the  course  of  Paul's  journeys,  but  he  tells  us  that  he 
had  left  T.  as  his  delegate  or  representative  in 
Ephesus  (1  Tim  1  3);  and  soon  thereafter  he  wrote 
the  First  Ep.  to  Tim,  in  which  he  gave  full  instruc- 
tions in  regard  to  the  manner  in  which  he  should 
conduct  the  affairs  of  the  Ephesian  church,  until 
Paul  himself  should  again  revisit  Ephesus:  "These 
things  write  I  unto  thee,  hoping  to  come  unto  thee 
shortly"  (1  Tim  3  14). 

"The  position  which  Timothy  occupied  in  Ephesus, 
as  it  is  described  in  1  Tim,  cannot  without  doing  the 


greatest  violence;  to  history  bo  called   that  of  a  bishop, 

for  the  office  of  bishop  existed  only  where  the  one  bishop, 

superior  to  the  presbytery,  represented  the 

18.  His  highest  expression  of  the  common  church 
Position  in     Iift!-     Tne  office  was  for  life,  and  confined 
jrusiu    u  111     to  the  local  church.     This  was  particularly 
r/pnesus          the  case  in  Asia  Minor,  whore,  although  as 

early  as  the  time  of  Rev  and  the  time 
of  Ignatius,  bishoprics  were  numerous  and  closely  adja- 
cent, the  office  always  retained  its  local  character.  On 
the  other  hand,  T.'s  position  at  the  head  of  the  churches 
of  Asia  was  duo  to  the  position  which  he  occupied  as 
Paul's  helper  in  missionary  work.  It  was  his  part  in  the 
apostolic  calling,  as  this  calling  involved  the  oversight 
of  existing  churches.  T.  was  acting  as  a  temporary 
representative  of  Paul  in  his  apostolic  capacity  at  Ephe- 
sus, as  he  had  done  earlier  in  Corinth,  and  in  Thessa- 
lonica  and  Philippi  (1  Cor  4  17;  1  Thess  3  2  f ;  Phil 
2  19-23).  His  relation  was  not  closer  to  one  church  than 
to  the  other  churches  of  the  province;  its  rise  and  dis- 
appearance did  not  affect  at  all  the  organization  of  the 
local  congregations"  (Zahn,  Intro  to  the  NT,  II,  34). 

From  the  Second  Ep.  still  further  detail  can  be 

gathered.      Paul   was    a    second   time    imprisoned, 

and  feeling  that  on  this  occasion  his 

19.  Paul        trial  would  be  followed  by  an  adverse 
Summons      judgment  and  by  death,  he  wrote  from 
Him  to  Rome  to  T.  at  Ephesus,  affectionately 
Rome             requesting  him  to  come  to  him:   "Give 

diligence  to  come  shortly  unto  me" 
(2  Tim  4  9).  The  fact  that  at  that  time,  when  no 
Christian  friend  was  with  Paul  except  Luke  (2  Tim 
4  11),  it  was  to  T.  he  turned  for  sympathy  and  aid, 
closing  with  the  request  that  his  own  eon  in  the 
faith  should  come  to  him,  to  be  with  him  in  his  last 
hours,  shows  how  true  and  tender  was  the  affection 
which  bound  them  together.  Whether  T.  wras  able 
to  reach  Rome,  so  as  to  be  with  Paul  before  his  exe- 
cution, is  unknown. 

One  other  notice  of  him  occurs  in  He  13  23:  "Know  ye 

that  our  brother  Timothy  hath  been  set  at  liberty;   with 

whom,  if  ho  come  shortly,  I  will  see  you." 

20  Mention  As  tll°  alltllor  of  the  Ep.  to  the  He  is  not 
•     Vr     1o          Paul,  it  is  problematical  what  the  meaning 
in  ±ie  J.O          Of  these  words  really  is,  except  that  T.  had 

been  imprisoned,  and — unlike  what  took 
place  in  Paul's  case — he  had  escaped  death  and  had  been 
set  free. 

Nothing  further  is  known  of  him.  Of  all  Paul's  friends, 
with  the  exception,  perhaps,  of  Luke,  Paul's  beloved 

friend,  T.  was  regarded    by  him  with  the 

21  His  tenderest  affection;   he  was  his  dearly  loved 
rv"         ,  son,   faithful    and    true.     Various   defects 
unaracier       have  been   alleged   to   exist  in  T.'s    char- 
acter.    These    defects   are    inferred    from 

the  directions  and  instructions  addressed  to  him  by  Paul 
in  the  Pastoral  Epp.,  but  these  inferences  may  be  wrong, 
and  it  is  a  mistake  to  exaggerate  them  in  view  of  his  un- 
broken and  unswerving  loyalty  and  of  the  long  and 
faithful  service  rendered  by  him  to  Paul,  "as  a  child 
serveth  a  father "  (Phil  2  22). 

JOHN   RUTHERFTTRD 

TIMOTHY,  EPISTLES  TO.  See  PASTORAL 
EPISTLES. 

TIN,  tin  (VH3,  bedhll):  Tin  is  mentioned  with 
brass,  iron  and  lead  in  Nu  31  22;  Ezk  22  18.20. 
Ezekiel  mentions  tin  along  with  silver,  iron  and  lead 
as  being  imported  into  Tyre  from  Tarshish  (see 
METALS;  BRONZE).  The  tin  must  have  been 
brought  in  the  form  of  ore  and  smelted  in  Syria. 
The  writer  has  some  slag  dug  from  a  deposit  near 
Beirut  which  yielded  nearly  pure  tin.  It  was  prob- 
ably the  site  of  an  ancient  smelter's  shop. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

TIPHSAH,  tif'sa  (HD^n ,  tiphsah,  "ford";  0av(/d, 
Thapsd) : 

(1)  This  marks  the  northern  extremity  of  the 
dominions  ruled  by  Solomon,  Gaza  being  the  limit 
on  the  S.  (1  K  4  24).  It  can  hardly  be  other  than 
Thapsacus,  on  the  right  bank  of  the  Euphrates, 
before  its  waters  join  those  of  the  Balik.  The  great- 
caravan  route  between  E.  and  W.  crossed  the  river 
by  the  ford  at  this  point.  Here  Cyrus  the  younger 
effected  a  somewhat  perilous  crossing  (Xen.  Anab. 
i.4,  2).  The  ford  was  also _  used  by  Darius;  but 
Alexander  the  Great,  in  his  pursuit,  constructed 


Tiras 
Tithe 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


29,86 


two  bridges  for  tlio  transport  of  his  army  (Arrian 
iii.7).  Under  the  Seleucidae  it  was  called  Amphip- 
olis.  The  site  is  probably  occupied  by  the  modern 
KaPat  Dibsc,  where  there  is  a  ford  still  used  by  the 
caravans.  It  is  about  8  miles  below  Meskene, 
where  the  river  makes  a  bend  to  the  E. 

(2)  (B,  Qepffd,  Tticrxd,  A,  Qaipd,  Thaira):  The 
inhabitants  of  this  town,  which  was  apparently  not 
far  from  Tirzah,  did  not  favor  the  regicide  Mena- 
hem,  refusing  to  open  to  him.  In  his  wrath  he 
massacred  the  Tiphsites  with  circumstances  of 
horrible  cruelty  (2  K  15  16).  K/iirhct  Tafsah, 
about  (5  miles  S.W.  of  Nahlux,  corresponds  in  name, 
but  is  probably  too  far  from  Tirzah.  W.  EWING 


TIRAS,  tl'ras  (CTP  ,  lira*;  ©sipds,  Theirds,  Luc., 
©ipds,  Thirds):  A  son  of  Japheth  (Gen  10  2  [P]; 
1  Ch  1  ">).  Not  mentioned  elsewhere;  this  name 
was  almost  unanimously  taken  by  the  ancient 
commentators  (so  Jos,  Ant,  I,  vi,  1)  to  be  the  same 
as  that  of  the  Thracians  (Gpcu-es,  Thrdkes)',  but  the 
removal  of  the  nominative  ending  s  does  away  with 
this  surface  resemblance.  Tuch  was  the  first  to  sug- 
gest the  fvpcrr}i>wl,  Turscuioi,  a  race  of  Pelasgian 
pirates,  who  left  many  traces  of  their  ancient  power 
in  the  islands  and  coasts  of  the  Aegean,  and  who 
were  doubtless  identical  with  the  Etruscans  of  Italy. 
This  brilliant  suggestion  has  since1  been  confirmed 
by  the  discovery  of  the  name  Turusa  among  the 
seafaring  peoples  who  invaded  Egypt  in  the  reign 
of  Merenptah  (W.  M.  Mtiller,  AE,3568).  Tiras 
has  also  been  regarded  as  the  same  as  Tarshish. 

HORACE  J.  WOLF 

TIRATHITES,  tl'rath-its  (ZT^"in,  tir*  at  him; 
B  A,  'Ap-yo.6i.tin,  Argalhieim,  Luc.,  0o.pa.6ei,  TJin- 
rutltci'):  \  family  of  scribes  that  dwelt  at  Jabez 
(1  Ch  2  5o).  The  three  families  mentioned  in 
this  verse  (Tirathites,  Shimathites  and  Sucathites) 
are  taken  by  Jerome;  to  l)e  three  different  classes  of 
religious  functionaries  —  singers,  scribes,  recorders 
("cinicntes  alque  rcHonaines  ct  in  tabcrnaculis  com- 
morantes").  The  Tg  takes  the  same  view,  save 
that  the  "Sucathites"  are  those  "covered"  with  a 
spirit  of  prophecy.  Bertheau  sees  the  Tirathites 
as  "gate-keepers"  (Aram.  rifl  ,  /fra'  =  IIeb  "l7T|!  , 
sha*(tr).  Keil  holds  the  three  names  to  be  those 
of  the  descendants  of  unknown  men  named  Tira, 
Shemei  and  Sucah.  The  passage  seems  too  obscure 
to  admit  of  interpretation.  HORACE  J.  WOLF 

TIRE,  tir,  HEADTIRE  (2  K  9  30;  Isa  3  20; 
Ezk  24  17.23;  Jth  10  3;  16  8).  See  DHESS,  V. 

TIRES,  <Irz,  ROUND:  Small  ornaments  in  the 
shape  of  crescents  (Isa  3  18  AV,  RV  "crescents"). 
See  ASTRONOMY,  I,  3;  CKESCENTS. 

TIRHAKAH,  ter-ha'ka,  tir-ha'ka    (HpniP  ,    tir- 

hakah;    15  in  2  K,  ©apd,   Thnrd,  elsewhere  and  in 

A,  ©apaKd,    Tharaka;     Jos,   0apo-CKT)s, 

1.  Name        Th(irsikcs'):     The    king    of    dish    or 
and  Ethiopia     (/3a<riAei>j    AWi6iruv,    has  ileus 
Prenomen      Aithidpon),  who  opposed  Sennacherib 

in  Pal  (2  K  19  9;  Isa  37  9).  The 
name  of  this  ruler  of  Egypt  and  his  native  realm 
appears  in  hieroglyphics  as  Taharqa,  his  prenomen 
being  N  efer-almu-Ra-hu,  "Nefer-atmu-Ra  protects." 
The  Assyr  form  of  Tirhakah  is  Tarqti  or  Tarqu'u 
(inscriptions  of  Assur-bani-pal). 

Tirhakah  was  one  of  the  sons,  and  apparently  the 
favorite,  of  Piankhy  II.  lie  left  his  mother,  and 

the  city  Xapata,  at  the  age  of  20;  and 

2.  Origin       when    she    followed    him    northward, 
and  Length   she   found   him    crowned   as   king   of 
of  Reign        Egypt.     As  he  died,  after  a  reign  of  at 

least  26  years,  in  667  BC,  he  must  have 
mounted  the  throne  about  693  BC. 


The  engagement  between  Tirhakah's  army  and 

the  Assyrians  is  regarded  as  having  taken  place  in 

701  BC.     Petrie  explains  this  date  by 

3.  A  Chron-  supposing   he   acted    at  first    for   the 
ological  reigning   Pharaoh,   his   cousin   Shaba- 
Difficulty       toka,    Tirhakah   not   having   officially 

become  Pharaoh  until  the  former's 
death  in  693  BC.  There  is  a  general  opinion,  how- 
ever, that  the  Assyr  historians,  like  those  of  2  K 
and  Isa,  have  mingled  two  campaigns  made  by  Sen- 
nacherib, one  of  them  being  after  the  accession  of 
Tirhakah. 

According  to  the  OT  account,  Sennacherib  was 
besieging  Libnah  when  Tirhakah's  army  appeared 

in  Pal.     In  Sennacherib's  inscriptions, 

4.  First          however,  the  battle  with  "the  king[s] 
Conflict          of  Musuru  [Egypt]  and  the  bowmen, 
with  the         chariots,    and    cavalry    of    Meruhha" 
Assyrians       (Meroe  or  Ethiopia),   who  had   come 

to  Hezekiah's  help,  took  place  in  the 
neighborhood  of  Eltekeh.  He  claims  to  have  cap- 
tured the  sons  of  the  king  (variant,  "kings")  of 
Egypt  and  the  charioteers  of  the  king  of  Meruhha, 
and  then,  having  taken  Eltekeh,  Timna,  and  Ekron, 
he  brought  out  Padi  from  Jerus,  and  reseated  him 
on  the  throne  of  Ekron.  The  name  of  Tirhakah 
does  not  occur  in  his  account. 

It  would  seem  to  have  been  Egypt's  interference 

in  Palestinian  affairs  which  caused  the  Assyr  kings 

to  desire  the  conquest  of  that  distant 

5.  Struggles  country.     According  to  the  Bab  Chron- 
with  Esar-     icle,  the  Assyr  army  fought  in  Egyp: 
haddon  and  in  the  7th  year  of  Esar-haddon  ((57.") 
Assur-bani-  BC),   and  the   country  was  then   ap- 
pal.    His        parent  ly    quiet    until    672    BC,    when 
Death  Esar-haddon  marched  thither,  and  after 

fighting  three  battles,  entered  Mem- 
phis. "The  king"  (Tirhakah)  fled,  but  his  sons 
and  nephews  were  made  prisoners.  In  the  latter 
campaign  ((570  BC),  Esar-haddon  fell  ill  and  died 
on  the  way  out,  so  that  the  operations  were,  appar- 
ently, completed  by  his  son,  Assur-bani-pal  (Osn.-ip- 
par).  On  hearing  of  the  Assyr  success  at  Kar- 
Baniti,  Tirhakah,  who  was  at  Memphis,  fled  to 
Thebes.  The  20  petty  kings  installed  in  Egypt  by 
Esar-haddon  were  restored  by  Assur-bani-pal,  but 
they  feared  the  vengeance  of  Tirhakah  after  the 
Assyr  army  had  retired,  and  therefore  made  an 
agreement  with  him.  On  this  news  reaching  the 
Assyr  king,  he  sent  his  army  back  to  Egypt,  and 
the  petty  rulers  having  been  abolished,  Necho  king 
of  Memphis  and  Sais  was  set  on  the  throne,  with 
his  son,  Nabii-sizbanni,  as  ruler  in  Athribes.  On 
hearing  of  the  success  of  the  Assyr  armies,  Tirha- 
kah fled,  and  died  in  Cush  (Ethiopia).  He  was 
succeeded  by  Tantamane  (identified  with  Tanut- 
Amon),  son  of  Sabaco,  whom  the  Assyrians  de- 
feated in  the  last  expedition  which  they  ever  made 
to  Egypt  (see  W.  F.  Petrie,  Hist  of  Egypt,  III, 
294  ff).  T.  G.  PINCHES 

TIRHANA,  tilr'ha-na,  ter-ha'na  (i"i:rnft  ,  tirha- 
nah;  B,  0apd.ii,  Thnrdm,  A,  0a.px.vd,  Tharchnd,  Luc., 
©apaavd,  Tharaami)  :  A  son  of  Caleb  by  his  concu- 
bine, Maacah  (1  Ch  2  48). 


TIRIA,  tir'i-a,  tl'ri-a  (S?"pfi  ,  tlr'ya',  Baer 
tir  i/a';    B   omits,   A,   ©rjpid,    Thcrid,    Luc.,  *E0pid, 
Etlirid):   A  son  of  Jehallelel  (1  Ch  4  16). 


TIRSHATHA,  ter-sha'tha,  tur'sha-tha 
tirshdtha;  cA9tpo-a0d,  Ilathermthd):  A  title  which 
occurs  5  t  in  Ezr  and  Neh  (Ezr  2  63;  Neh  7  60, 
ARVandERVm  "governor").  In  Neh  8  9;  10  1, 
Nehemiah  is  called  the  tirshdtha'.  In  Ezr  2  (53; 
Neh  7  65.70,  it  is  the  title  of  Sheshbazzar,  or  Zerub- 
babel.  As  in  Neh  12  26,  Nehemiah  is  called  a  pchah, 


2987 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STAXDAKI)  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tiras 
Tithe 


or  governor,  ;i  title;  which  in  Ezr  5  14  is  given  to 
Sheshbazzar  also,  it  has  been  supposed  that  itchdli 
and  tlrshdthd'  were  equivalent  terms,  the  former 
being  of  Assyrio-Bab  and  the  latter  of  Pers  origin. 
According  to  Lagarde,  it  conies  from  the  Bactrian 
antarekshatra,  that  is,  "he  who  takes  the  place  of 
the  king."  According  to  Meyer  and  Sclieftelenvitz 
it  is  a  modified  form  of  a  hypothetical  Old  Pers  word 
tarsala.  According  to  (lesenius  and  Ewald,  it  is  to 
be  compared  with  the  Pers  torsti,  "severe,  ""austere," 
i.e.  "stern  lord."  It  seems  more  probable  that  it  is 
derived  from  the.  Bab  V  rasltu,  "to  take;  possession 
of,"  from  which  we  get  the  noun  rasfiu,  "creditor." 
In  this  case  it  may  well  have  had  the  sense  of  a  tax- 
collector.  One  of  the  principal  duties  of  the  Pers 
satrap,  or  governor,  wasto  assess  and  collect  the  taxes 
(see  Rawlinson's  I'crsia,  ch  viii).  This  would  readily 
account  for  the  fact  that  in  Neh  7  70  the  tirslidtlid' 
gave  to  the  treasure  to  be  used  in  the  building  of 
the  temple  a  thousand  drachms  of  gold,  etc,  and  that 
in  Ezr  1  8  Cyrus  numbered  the  vessels  of  the  house 
of  the  Lord  unto  Sheshbazzar.  This  derivation 
would  connect  it  with  the  Aram,  rashi/a,  "creditor," 
and  the  New  Ileb  rdshuth,  "highest  power,"  "magis- 
trate." R.  DICK  WILSON 


TIRZAH,  tur'za  (PlSnn  ,   tir<;ah;  ©epera,  Thersd)  : 

(1)  A  royal  city  of  the  Canaanites,  the  king  of 
which  was  slain  by  Joshua  (12  24).     It  superseded 
Shechem  as  capital  of  the  Northern  Kingdom  (1  K 
14  17,  etc),  and  itself  gave  place  in  turn  to  Samaria. 
Here  reigned  Jeroboam,   Naelab  his  son,   Baaslia, 
Blah  and  Zimri  (15  21.33;    16  6.8.9.15).     Baaslia 
was  buried  in  Tir/ah.     Here  Elah  was  assassinated 
while  "drinking  himself  drunk"  in  the  house  of  his 
steward;   _here  therefore  probably  he  was  buried. 
Zimri  perished  in  the  flames  of  his  palace,  rather 
than  fall  into  Omri's  hands.     In  Tirzah  Menahem 
matured  his  rebellion  against  Shalluin  (2  K  16  14). 
The  place  is  mentioned  in  Cant  6  4  AV,  where  the 
Shulammite  is  said  to  be  "beautiful  ....  as  Tirzah, 
comely  as  Jerus."     The  comparison  may  be  due  to 
the  charm  of  its  situation.     The  name  may  possibly 
be  derived  from  rd^dh,  "to  delight."     Several  identi- 
fications have  been  suggested.     Buhl  (GAP,  203) 
favors  et-Tlreh,  on  the  \Y.  of  the  plain  of  Makhneh,  4 
miles  S.  of  \dblas,  which  he  identifies  with  the  Tira- 
thana  of  Jos.     He  quotes  Neubauer  to  the  effect 
that  the  later  Jews  said  Tir^an  or  Tar^ita  instead 
of   Tirzah,   as   weakening   the    claim   of    Telluzah, 
which  others  (e.g.  Robinson,  BR,  III,  302)  incline 
to.     It  is  a  partly  ruined  village  with  no  spring,  but 
with  ancient  cisterns,  on  a  hill  about  4  miles  E.  of 
N.   from    Ndblus.     This  was  evidently  the  place 
intended  by  Brocardius—  Thersa,  about  3  miles  E. 
of  Samaria  (Descriptio.  VII).     A  third  claimant  is 
Teiaslr,  a  fortress  at  the  point  where  the  road  from 
Abel-meholah  joins  that  from  Shechem  to  Bethshan, 
fully  11  miles  N.E.  of  Ndblus.     It  is  impossible  to 
decide  with  certainty.     The  heavy  t  in  Telluzah  is  a 
difficulty.     Teiaslr  is  perhaps  too  far  from  Shechem. 
Buhl's  case  for  identification  with  et-Tlreh  is  subject 
to  the  same  difficulty  as  Tdluzah. 

(2)  One  of  the  five  daughters  of  Zelophehad  (Nu 
26  33;  27  1;  36  11;  Josh  17  3).         W.  EWINO 

TISHBITE,  tish'blt.  See  ELIJAH;  Expos  T 
XII,  383. 

TISHRI,  tish're,  TISRI,  tiz're:  The  7th  month 
of  the  Jewish  ecclesiastical,  and  1st  of  the  civil, 
year  (September-October).  The  same  as  Ethanim. 
See  CALENDAR. 

TITANS,  ti'tanz:  In  Jth  16  7,  "Neither  did  the 
sons  of  the  Titans  [viol  TtTdvwv,  huioi  Titdnon] 
smite  him."  The  name  of  an  aboriginal  Canaan- 


it  ish  race  of  reputed  giants  who  inhabited  Pal  before 
the  Hebrews,  and  so  used  in  the  sense;  of  "giant,s" 
in  general.  See  UKIMIAIM.  In  2  S  6  IS.  22,  (lie 
"valley  of  Rephaim"  is  tr'1  by  LXX  as  "the-  valley 
of  the  Titans." 


TITHE,  tit  h  pt?ria,  Ma'asfr; 
The  custom  e>f  giving  a  l()th  part  of  the  products  of 
the  land  and  e>f  the  spoils  of  war  to  priests  and  kings 
(1  Mace  10  31;  11  35;  1  S  8  15.17)  was  a  very 
ancient  one  among  most  nations.  That  the-  Jews 
had  this  custom  long  before  the  institution  of  the 
Mosaic  Law  is  shown  by  (ien  14  17-20  (cf  He>  7  4) 
and  On  28  22.  Many  critics  hold  that  these  two 
passages  are  late  and  only  reflect  the  later  pract  ice- 
of  the  nation;  but  the  payment  of  tithes  is  so  an- 
cient and  deeply  mot  eel  in  the  history  of  the1  human 
race  that  it  seems  much  simpler  and  more  natural 
to  believe  that  among  the  Jews  the  practice  was  in 
existence  long  before  the  time  of  Moses. 

In  the  Pent  we  finel  legislation  as  to  tithes  in  t  hre^e 
place's.  (1)  According  to  Lev  27  30-33,  a  tithe-  had 
to  be  given  of  the  se-e-el  of  the  land,  i.e.  of  t  he- 
crops,  of  the  fruit  of  the;  tree,  e.g.  oil  and  wine',  and 
of  the  herd  or  the  flock  (cf  Dt  14  22.23;  2  Ch  31 
5.6).  As  the  herds  and  flocks  passeel  out  to  pasture 
they  were  counted  (cf  Jer  33  13;  Ezk  20  37),  and 
every  10th  animal  that  came  out  was  reckoned 
holy  to  the  Lord.  The  owner  was  not  allowed  te> 
search  amemg  them  te>  finel  whether  they  we're  bad 
or  good,  nen-  coulel  he  change  any  of  them;  if  he  did, 
both  the  one  chosen  and  the  one  for  whie-h  it  was 
changed  we're  holy.  Tithe's  of  the  herds  and  floe-ks 
coulel  not  be  redeemed  fe>r  money,  but  tithe's  of  the 
seeel  of  the  land  and  of  fruit  coulel  be,  but  a  5th  part 
of  the  value  of  the  tithe  had  to  be  added.  (2)  In 
Nu  18  21-32  it  is  laid  down  that  the  tithe  must  be 
paid  to  the  Levites.  (It  should  be  noted  that  ac- 
cording  to  He  7  5,  'they  that  are  of  the  sons  of 
Le'vi,  who  receive  the  offie'e  of  the  priesthood  .... 
take  tithes  of  the  people.'  Westcott's  explanation 
is  that  the  priests,  who  received  from  the  Levites 
a  tithe  of  the  tithe,  thus  symbolically  received  the 
whole  tithe.  _  In  the  time  e>f  the  second  temple 
the  priests  did  actually  receive  the  tithes.  In 
the  Talm  [Y'-bhdntdth  86a  ct  passim]  it  is  said 
that  this  alteration  from  the  Mosaic  Law  was 
causeel  by  the  sin  of  the  Levites,  who  were  not  eager 
to  return  to  Jerus,  but  had  to  be  persuaded  to  do 
so  by  Ezra  [Ezr  8  15].)  The  Levites  were  to 
receive  the  tithes  offered  by  Israel  to  Jeh,  because1 
they  had  no  other  inheritance,  and  in  return  for 
the'ir  service  of  the  tabernacle  (Nu  18  21.24). 
The  tithe  was  to  consist  of  corn  of  the  threshing- 
floor  and  the  fulness  of  the  wine  press  (ver  27), 
which  coincieles  with  see-d  of  the  land  and  fruit  of 
the  trees  in  Lev  27.  The  Levites,  who  stood  in  the 
same  relation  to  the  priests  as  the  people  did  to 
themselves,  we're  to  oiTer  from  this  their  inhe'rit- 
ance  a  heave  offering,  a  tithe  of  a  tithe,  to  the 
prie'sts  (cf  Neh  10  39),  and  for  this  tithe  they  were 
to  choose  of  the  best  part  of  what  they  received 
(3)  In  Dt  12  5.6.11.18  (cf  Am  4  4)  it  is  said  that 
the  tithe  is  to  be  brought  "unto  the  place  whie-h  Je-h 
your  God  shall  choose  out  of  all  your  tribes,  to  put 
his  name  there,"  i.e.  to  Jerus;  and  in  vs  7.12.18, 
that  the  tithe  shoulel  be'  used  there  as  a  sacred  meal 
by  the  offerer  _  and  his  household,  including  the1 
Levite  within  his  gates.  Nothing  is  said  here  abeiut 
tithing  cattle,  only  corn,  wine  and  oil  being  men- 
tioned _(cf  Neh  10  36-38;  135.12).  In  Dt  14 
22-29  it  is  laid  down  that  if  the  way  was  too  long 
to  carry  the  tithe  to  Jerus  it  could  be  exchanged  fen- 
money,  ami  the  money  taken  there  instead,  where1 
it  was  to  be  spent  in  anything  the  owner  chose; 
and  whatever  was  bought  was  to  be  eaten  by  him 
anel  his  household  and  the  Levites  at  Jerus.  In 


Titius  Justus 
Titus  Justus 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2988 


the  third  year  the  tithe  was  to  be  reserved  and 
eat  (Mi  at,  home  by  the  Levite,  the  stranger,  the 
fatherless  and  the  widow.  In  26  12-15  it  is  laid 
down  that  in  the  3d  year,  after  this  feast  had  been 
given,  the  landowner  should  go  up  himself  before 
the  Lord  his  God,  i.e.  to  Jems,  and  ask  God's  _bless- 
ing  on  his  deed.  (According  to  the  Mish,  Sotdli  9 
10;  Ma'dscr  Shenl  5  Go,  the  high  priest  Johanan 
abolished  this  custom. )  In  this  passage  this  3d 
year  is  called  "the  year  of  tithing." 

There  is  thus  an  obvious  apparent  discrepancy 
between  the  legislation  in  Lev  and  Dt.  It  is  har- 
monized in  Jewish  tradition,  not  only  theoretically 
but  in  practice,  by  considering  the  tithes  as  three, 
different  tithes,  which  are  named  the  First  Tithe, 
the  Second  Tithe,  and  the  Poor  Tithe,  which_  is 
called  also  the  Third  Tithe  (Pc'ah,  Mcf&seroth, 
M(i*fixcr  XJH'iil,  D'ina'1,  Roth  ha-shdnah;  cf  Tob 

I  7.<S;     Ant,  IV,   iv,  3;     viii,   H;     viii,   22).       Ac- 
cording  to   this   explanation,  after  the   tithe    (the 
First  Tithe)  was  given  to  the  Levites  (of  which  they 
had  to  give  the  tithe  to  the  priests),  a  Second  Tithe 
of  the  remaining  nine-tenths  had  to  be  set  apart 
and  consumed  in  .Jerus.     Those  who  lived  far  from 
Jerus  could  change  this  Second  Tithe  into  money 
with  the  addition  of  a  5th  part  of  its  value.     Only 
food,  drink  or  ointment  could  be  bought   for  the 
money    (Ma'ascr   Hhcnl  21;     cf    Dt  14  20).     The 
tithe  Of  cattle  belonged  to  the  Second  Tithe,  and 
was  to  be  used  for  the  feast  in  Jerus  (Z''bhdh~un  5  8). 
In  the  3d  year  the  Second  Tithe  was  to  be  given 
entirely  to  the  Levites  and  the  poor.     But  accord- 
ing to"jos  (Aitt,  IV,  viii,  22)  the  "Poor  Tithe"  was 
actually  a  third  one.     The  priests  and  t  he  Levites, 
if  landowners,  were  also  obliged  to  give  the  Poor 
Tithe  (Peak  1  6). 

Tho  explanation  given  by  many  critics,  that  the  dis- 
crepancy between  Dt  and  Lev  is  due  to  the  fact  that 
these  aiv  different  layers  of  legislation,  and  that  the 
Levitical  tithe  is  a  post-exilian  creation  of  the  IV,  is 
not  wholly  satisfactory,  for  the  following  reasons:  (1) 
The  allusion  in  Dt  18  1.2  seems  to  refer  to  the  Levitical 
tithe.  (2)  There  is  no  relation  between  the  law  of  Nil 
18  and  post-exilian  conditions,  when  the  priests  wen; 
numerous  and  the  Levites  a  handful.  (:<)  A  community 
so  poor  and  disaffected  as  that  of  Ezra's  time  would 
have  refused  to  submit  to  a  new  and  oppressive  tithe 
burden.  (4)  The  division  into  priests  and  Levites  can- 
not have  been  of  the  recent  origin  that  is  alleged.  See 
LEVITES. 

\V.  K.  Smith  and  others  suggest  that  the  tithe  is  simply 
a  later  form  of  the  first-fruits,  but  this  is  difficult  to 
accept,  since  the  first-fruits  were  given  to  the  priest, 
while  the  tithes  were  not.  The  whole  subject  is  involved 
in  considerable  obscurity,  which  with  our  present  infor- 
mation cannot  easily  be  cleared  away. 

The  Talmudic  law  of  tithing  extends  the  Mosaic 
Law,  with  most  burdensome  minuteness,  even  to  the 
smallest  products  of  the  soil.  Of  these,  according 
to  some,  not  only  the  seeds,  but,  in  certain  cases, 
even  the  leaves  and  stalks  had  to  be  tithed  (Ma- 
'•atieroth  4  5),  "mint,  anise,  and  cummin"  (Dema'l 

II  1;     cf    Mt  23  23;      Lk  11  42).     The    general 
principle  was  that  "everything  that  is  eaten,  that 
is  watched  over,  and  that  grows  out  of  the  earth" 
must  be  tithed  (Ma^&seroth  1  !)._ 

Considering  the  many  taxes,  religious  and  secular, 
that  the  Jews  had  to  pay,  esp.  in  post-exilian  times, 
we  cannot  but  admire  the  liberality  and  resource- 
fulness of  the  Jewish  people.  Only  in  the  years 
just  after  the  return  from  exile  do  wejiear  that 
the  taxes  were  only  partially^  paid_  (Neh  13  10; 
cf  Mai  1  7  ff ;  and  for  preexilian  times  cf  2  Ch 
31  4ff).  In  later  times  such  cases  seldom  occur 
(Sotdh  48o),  which  is  the  more  surprising  since 
the  priests,  who  benefited  so  much  by  these 
laws  of  the  scribes,  were  the  adversaries  of  the 
latter.  PAUL  LKVKKTOFF 

TITIUS  JUSTUS,  tish'us  jus'tus.  See  JUSTUS, 
(2) ;  TITUS  JUSTUS. 


TITLE,  tl't'l:   Jn  19  19.20  for  T£T\OS,  tiilos. 
The  following  arrangement  of  the   title  on  the 
cross  has  been  suggested: 


DTirrn  -p1? 
OYTOC  GCTIN  IHCOYC  0  BACILGYC 
TUUN  IOYAAIUUN 

REX JUDAEORUM 


See  Geikie,  Life  and  Words  of  Christ,  eh  Ixiii,  note;  c; 
Seymour,  Tlic  Croxs  in  Tradition,  History  and  Art 
(New  York,  1898),  pp.  115,  110,  130,  138. 

In  2  K  23  17,  AV  has  "title"  for  VP¥  ,  fiyyun. 
The  word  is  connected  with  (dirdh,  "to  command," 
and  AV  seems  to  have  understood  $iyyun  as  "that 
giving  directions,"  "sign-posts"  (cf  Ezk  39  15). 
The  word,  however,  means  "grave-stone,"  "monu- 
ment." See  SUPERSCRIPTION. 

TITTLE,  tit"l  (Kepcua,  kcraia  [WH,  kcreu],  from 
Kt'pas,  /v-m/.s,  "a  horn"):  A  small  stroke  or  mark, 
specif,  on  a  letter  to  denote  accent,  or  as  a  diacritical 
mark;  used  only  in  Mt  5  18  and  Lk  16  17.  In 
the  first  passage  il  is  used  in  connection  with  iota, 
or  jot,  i.e.  the  very  smallest  thing,  and  in  both  it 
refers  to  the  minutiae  of  the  Law.  It  is  well  known 
that  the  scribes  paid  the  greatest  attention  to  such 
marks  attached  to  the  letters  in  the  Ileb  Scriptures, 
the  MT  of  which  abounds  in  them.  See  JOT; 
YoDH. 

TITUS,  tl'tus  (TCros,  Tito*  [2  Cor  2  13;  7  6.13  ff; 

8  0.10.23;  12  18;  Gal  2  1.3;  2  Tim  4  10;  Tit  1  4]): 

A  Gr  Christian,  one  of  Paul's  intimate 

1.  One  of      friends,  his  companion  in  some  of  his 
Paul's  apostolic    journeys,    and    one   of    his 
Converts        assistant  sin  Christian  work.    His  name 

does  not  occur  in  the  Acts;  and,  else- 
where in  the  NT,  it  is  found  only  in  2  Cor,  Gal, 
2  Tim  and  Tit.  As  Paul  calls  him_"my  true  child 
after  a  common  faith"  (Tit  1  4),  it  is  probable  that 
he  was  one  of  the  apostle's  converts. 

The  first  notice  of  T.  is  in  Acts  15  2,  where  we 
read  that  after  the  conclusion  of  Paul's  1st  mission- 
ary journey,  when  he  had  returned  to 

2.  Paul          Antioch,    a    discussion    arose    in    the 
Refuses  to     church  there,  in  regard  to  the  question 
Have  Him     whether  it  was  necessary  that  gentile 
Circumcised  Christians  should    be  circumcised  and 

should  keep  the  Jewish  Law.  It  was 
decided  that  Paul  and  Barnabas,  "and  certain  other 
of  them,"  should  go  up  to  Jerus  to  the  apostles  and 
elders  about  this  question.  The  "certain  other  of 
them"  includes  T.,  for  in  Gal  2  3  it  is  recorded 
that  T.  was  then  with  Paul.  The  Judaistic  party 
in  the  church  at  Jerus  desired  to  have  T.  circum- 
cised, but  Paul  gave  no  subjection  to  these  persons 
and  to  their  wishes,  "no,  not  for  an  hour;  that  the 
truth  of  the  gospel  might  continue  with  you"  (Gal 
2  5).  The  matter  in  dispute  was  decided  as  re- 
corded in  Acts  15  13-29.  The  decision  was  in 
favor  of  the  free  promulgation  of  the  gospel,  as 
preached  by  Paul,  and  unrestricted  by  Jewish  ordi- 
nances. Paul's  action  therefore  in  regard  to  T.  was 
justified.  In  fact  T.  was  a  representative  or  test 
case. 

It  is  difficult  and  perhaps  impossible  to  give  the 
true  reason  why  Titus  is  not  mentioned  by  name  in 
the  Acts,  but  he  is  certainly  referred  to  in  15  2. 

There  is  no  further  notice  of  T.  for  some  years 
afterward,  when  he  is  again  mentioned  in  2  Cor. 
In  this  Ep.  his  name  occurs  8  t.  From  the  notices 
in  this  Ep.  it  appears  that  T.  had  been  sent  by 
Paul,  along  with  an  unnamed  "brother,"  to  Corinth 


29S9 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Titius  Justus 
Titus  Justus 


as  the  apostle's  delegate  to  the  church  there  (2  Cor 

12  IcS).     His  chief  business  was  evidently  to  deal 

with    the   cases   of   immorality   which 

3.  Sent  to      had  occurred  there.     His  mission  was 
Corinth  largely  successful,  so  that  he  was  able 

to  return  to  Paul  with  joy,  because  his 
spirit  was  refreshed  by  the  Corinthians  (2  Cor  7 
lli).  His  inward  affection  was  largely  drawn  out 
to  them,  and  "he  remembereth  the  obedience  of 
you  all,  how  with  fear  and  trembling  ye  received 
him"  (7 _  If)).  At  Corinth  T.  seems  also  to  have 
assisted  in  organizing  the  weekly  collections  for  the 
poor  saints  in  Jerus.  See  1  Cor  16  1.2  compared 
with  2  Cor  8  (>:  "We  exhorted  Titus,  that,  as  he 
had  made  a  beginning  before,  so  he  would  also  com- 
plete in  you  this  grace  also." 

After  the  departure  of  T.  from  Corinth,  difficulty 
had  again  arisen  in  the  church  there,  and  T.  seems  to 
have  been  sent  by  Paul  a  second  time  to  that  city, 
as  the  apostle's  messenger,  carrying  a  letter  froin 
him— referred  to  in  2  Cor  2  3  If;  7  <S  if. 

The  state  of  the  Corinthian  church  had  been 

causing  much  anxiety  to  Paul,  so  much  so  that 

when  he  had  come  to  Troas  to  preach 

4.  Paul  Christ's  gospel,  and  a  door  was  opened 
Goes  to          to  him  of  the  Lord,  he  found  no  rest 
Meet  Him     in  his  spirit,  because 'he  found  not  T., 

his  brother;  so  he  left  Troas,  and  went 
thence  into  Macedonia,  in  order  to  meet  T.  the 
sooner,  so  as  to  ascertain  from  him  how  matters 
stood  in  Corinth.  In  Macedonia  accordingly  the 
apostle  met  T.,  who  brought  good  news  regarding 
the  Corinthians.  In  the  unrest  and  fightings  and 
fears  which  the  troubles  at  Corinth  had  caused 
Paul  to  experience,  his  spirit  was  refreshed  when 
T. reached  him.  ''He  that  comfort oth  the  lowly,  even 
God,  comforted  us  by  the  coming  of  Titus  .... 
while  he  told  us  your  longing,  your  mourning,  your 
zeal  for  me;  so  that  I  rejoiced  yet  more"  (2  Cor 
7  (i.7). 

Paul  now  wrote  to  the  Corinthians  again — our 
Second  Ep.  to  the  Cor — and  dispatched  it  to  its 
destination  by  the  hand  of  T.,  into  whose  heart 
'(!od  had  put  the  same  earnest  care  for  them' 
(2  Cor  8  10-18).  T.  was  also  again  intrusted 
with  the  work  of  overseeing  the  weekly  collection 
in  the  Corinthian  church  (2  Cor  8  10.24). 

There  is  now  a  long  interval  in  the  history  of  T., 

for  nothing  further  is  recorded  of  him  till  we  come 

to    the    Pastoral    Epp.     From    Paul's 

5.  Travels     Ep.  to  him  these  details  are  gathered: 
with  Paul       On  Paul's  liberation  at  the  conclusion 
to  Crete         of  his  first  Rom  imprisonment  he  made 

a  number  of  missionary  journeys,  and 
T.  went  with  him,  as  his  companion  and  assistant, 
on  one  of  these — to  the  island  of  Crete.  From 
Crete,  Paul  proceeded  onward  but  lie  left  T.  to  "set 
in  order  the  things  that  were  wanting,  and  appoint 
elders  in  every  city"  (Tit  1  5).  Paul  reminds  him 
of  the  character  of  the  people  of  Crete,  and  gives 
him  various  instructions  for  his  guidance;  charges 
him  to  maintain  sound  doctrine,  and  advises  him 
how  to  deal  with  the  various  classes  of  persons  met 
with  in  his  pastoral  capacity. 

T.  is  informed  that  Artcmas  or  Tychicus  will  be  sent 

to  Crete  so  that  he  will  be  free  to  leave  the  island  and  to 

rejoin  the  apostle  at  Nicopolis,  where  he 

6.  Paul  has    determined    to    winter.     Such    were 
^pnrlQ  fnr       Paul's  plans;    whether  they  were  carried 
ocimaiui        out    is    unknown       But     this    at    least    ig 

certain,  that  T.  did  rejoin  Paul,  if  not  at 
Nicopolis,  then  at  some  other  spot;  and 
ho  was  with  him  in  Rome  on  the  occasion  of  his  2d  im- 
prisonment there,  for  he  is  mentioned  once  again  (2  Tim 
4  10)  as  having  gone  to  Dalmatia,  evidently  on  an 
evangelistic  errand,  as  the  apostle  was  in  the  habit  of 
sending  his  trusted  friends  to  do  such  work,  when  ho 
himself  was  no  longer  able  to  do  this,  owing  to  his  im- 
prisonment. "Paul  regarded  as  his  own  the  work  done 
from  centers  whore  ho  labored,  by  helpers  associated 


with  him,  considering  Iho  churches  thus  organized  as 
under  his  jurisdiction.  This  throws  light  upon  the;  state- 
ment in  2  Tim  4  10,  that  T.  at  that  time;  had  gone  to 
Dalmatia,  and  a  certain  Cresoens  to  (Jaul.  Then;  is  no 
indication  that  they,  like  Demas,  had  deserted  the  apostle 
and  sought  safety  for  themselves,  or  that,  like  Tychicus, 
they  had  been  sent  by  the  apostle  upon  some'  special 
errand.  In  cither  case  it  would  bo  a  question  why  they 
wont  to  those  particular  countries,  with  which,  'so  far 
as  wo  know,  Paul,  up  to  this  time,  had  never  had  any- 
thing to  do.  The  probability  is  that  T.,  who  had  long 
boon  associated  with  Paul  (Cal  2  :*),  who,  as  his  com- 
missioner, had  executed  difficult  ollicos  in  Corinth  (2 
Cor  7-9),  and  who,  not  very  long  before  2  Tim  was 
written,  had  completed  some  missionary  work  in  Crete 
that  had  been  begun  by  others,  had  gone  as  a  missionary 
and  as  Paul's  representative  and  helper  to  Dalmatia. 
....  If  by  this  means,  beginnings  of  church  organiza- 
tions had  boon  made  ....  in  Spain  by  Paul  himself, 
in  (raul  by  Cresoens,  in  Dalmatia  by  T.,  then,  in  reality 
the  missionary  map  had  been  very"  much  changed  since 
Paul's  first  defence"  (/aim,  Intru  to  the  NT,  II,  11). 

T.  was  one  of  Paul's  very  dear  and  trusted  friends; 
and  the  fact  that  he  was  chosen  by  the  apostle  to 
act  as  his  delegate  to  Corinth,  to  trans- 
7.  His  act  difficult  and  delicate  work  in  the 

Character  church  there,  and  that  he  did  this 
oftener  than  once,  and  did  it  thor- 
oughly and  successfully,  shows  that  T.  was  not 
merely  a  good  but  a  most  capable  man,  tactful  and 
resourceful  and  skilful  in  the  handling  of  men  and 
of  affairs.  "Whether  any  inquire  about  T.,  he  is 
my  partner  and  fellow-worker  to  you-ward"  (2  Cor 
8  23).  JOHN  RUTHERFURD 

TITUS,  EPISTLE  TO.     See  PASTORAL  EPISTLES. 

TITUS  or  TITIUS  JUSTUS  (Tfros  or  Tinos 
'lovo-Tos,  Titos  or  Titios  loiistos  [Acts  18  7]):  Titus 
or  Titius — for  the  MSS  vary  in  regard  to  the  spell- 
ing—was the  prenomen  of  a  certain  Corinthian,  a 
Jewish  proselyte  (xebomcnox  (on  Tkcon.  See  PROSE- 
LYTE). His  narne_eeems  also  to  indicate  that  he 
was  a  Roman  by  birth.  He  is  altogether  a  different 
person  from  Titus,  Paul's  assistant  and  companion 
in  some  of  his  journeys,  to  whom  also  the  Ep.  to 
Tit  is  addressed. 

Titus  or  Titius  Justus  was  not  the  "host  of  St 
Paul  at  Corinth"  (HDB,  art,  "Justus,"  p.  511),  for 
Luke  has  already  narrated  that,  when  Paul  came 
to  Corinth,  "he  abode  with"  Aquila  and  Priscilla 
(Acts  18  3).  What  is  said  of  Titius  Justus  is 
that  when  the  Jews  in  Corinth  opposed  themselves 
to  Paul  and  blasphemed  when  he  testified  that  Jesus 
was  the  Christ,  then  Paul  ceased  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel in  the  Jewish  synagogue  as  he  had  formerly  done, 
and  "he  departed  thence,  anil  went  into  the  house 
of  a  certain  man  named  Titus  Justus,  one  that 
worshipped  God,  whose  house  joined  hard  to  the 
synagogue"  (ver  7). 

"Titius  Justus  was  evidently  a  Roman  or  a  Latin,  one 
of  the  roloni  of  the.  colony  Corinth.  Like  the  centurion 
Cornelius,  he  had  been  attracted  to  the  synagogue.  His 
citizenship  would  afford  Paul  an  opening  to  the  more, 
educated  class  of  the  Corinthian,  population"  (Ramsay, 
St,  Paul  the  Traveller  and  the  Rom  Citizen,  256). 

Paul's  residence  in  Corinth  continued  for  a  year 
and  a  half,  followed  without  a  break  by  another 
period  indicated  in  the  words,  he  "tarried  after  this 
yet  many  days"  (Acts  18  11.18),  and  during  the 
whole  of  this  time  he  evidently  used  the  house  of 
Titius  Justus,  for  the  purposes  both  of  preaching  the 
gospel  and  of  gathering  the  church  together  for 
Christian  worship  and  instruction,  "teaching  the 
word  of  God  among  them"  (ver  11). 

Titiiis  Justus,  therefore,  must  have  been  a  wealthy 
man,  since  ho  possessed  a  house  in  which  there  was  an 
apartment  sufficiently  largo  to  be  used  for  both  of  these 
purposes;  and  he  himself  must  have  been  a  most  enthu- 
siastic member  of  the  church,  when  in  a  period  of  pro- 
tracted difficulty  and  persecution,  he  welcomed  Paul  to 
liis  house,  that  he  might  use  it  as  the  meeting-place  of 
the  church  in  Corinth.  Sue  JUSTUS,  (2). 

JOHN  RUTHERFURD 


Titus  Manius 
Tobit,  Book  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIULE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2990 


TITUS  MANIUS.     Sec  MANHS. 

TIZITE,  tl'/it  pjTnn,  hd-lln;  \'>,  6  'Iia,(rd,  ho 
Icdxc'i,  A,  6  Oucrati,  Ini  T/itlxdci  ,  Luc.,  A9a><ri,  Alhdsi)'. 

A  gentilic  attached  to  the  name  ",loha"  (1  Cli  11 
4.")),  one  of  the  soldiers  of  David;  the  origin  is 
totally  unknown. 

TOAH,  to'a.     See  NAIIATH. 

TOB,  fob,  tob,  THE  LAND  OF  pTJ  "pS  ,  'm-? 
tobh,  "a  good  land";  -yfj  Twp,  ^  7Y>/;):  Hither 
jephthah  escaped  from  his  brethren  after  his  father's 
death  (Jgs  11  3),  and  perfected  himself  in  the  art 
of  war,  making  forays  with  ''the  vain  fellows"  who 
joined  him.  Here  the  elders  of  C.ilead  found  him. 
when,  reduced  to  dire  straits  by  the  children  of 
Animon,  they  desired  him  to  take  command  of  their 
army  (vs  off).  This  country  contributed  12.000 
men  to  the  forces  of  the  allies,  who  with  the  Ammon- 
ites were  defeated  by  Israel  (2  S  10  S).  Inl  Mace 
5  13  wo  read  of  the  land  of  Tubias  where  the  Jews, 
about  1,000  men,  wore  slain  by  the  (ientiles,  their 
wives  and  children  being  carried  into  captivity. 
The  Tubieni,  "men  of  Tob"  of  2  Mace  12  17,  wore 
probably  from  this  place.  Ptolemy  (v.19)  speaks 
of  Thauba,  a  place  to  the  S.W.  of  Zobah,  which  may 
possibly  bo  Tob.  The  Tahn  (Noubauor,  (icng.  du 
Tdhn,  2:V.»)  identifies  the  land  of  Tob  with  the  dis- 
trict of  Ilippeno.  Tob  would  then  be  represented 
by  Hippos,  modern  »S//.s7//r/i,  to  the  S.\V.  of  Fik  on 
the  plateau  E.  of  the  Sea  of  Galileo.  Perhaps  the 
most  likely  identification  is  that  supported  by  G.  A. 
Smith  (HGHL,  oS7),  with  ct-Taii/ih,  h,  10  miles  S. 
of  I  -mm  Kcis  (Gadara).  The  name  is  the  same  in 
meaning  as  Tob.  A\  .  EWING 

TOB-ADONIJAH,  tol)-ad-6-ni'ja,  tub-  pit: 
n^"nX,  tobh  '  ddhonlyah,  ''good  is  tho  Lord";  B, 
Tu)(3a5a)p€id,  Tohddobcid,  A  and  Luc.,  TcdpaScovici, 
Tohdduidd):  One  of  tho  Levitessent  by  King  Jehosh- 
aphat  to  teach  in  the  cities  of  Judah  (2  Ch  17  S). 
The  name  looks  like  a  dittography  arising  from  the 
two  previous  names,  Adonijah  and  Tobijah. 


TOBIAH,  to-bl'a   (n^VJ  ,  toWilyah;   A,  Twpfas, 
Tobias,  omitted  in  B)  : 

(1)  An  Ammonite  slave   (AV  "servant"),   prob- 
ably of  Sanballat,  the  governor  of  Samaria   (Neh 
2  10).      He  was  grieved   exceedingly   when   Nehe- 
miah  came  to  seek  the  welfare  of  the  children  of 
Israel.     In  two  ways  ho  was  connected  by  marriage 
with  the  Jews,  having  himself  married  the  daughter 
of  Shocaniah,  the  son  of  Arah,  and  his  son  Jehohanan 
having  married  the  daughter  of  Meshullam,  the  son 
of    Borochiah    (6  1<S).      Because  of   this  close  con- 
nection with  the  Jews,  the  nobles  of  the  latter  cor- 
responded by  letter  with  him  and  also  reported  his 
good  deeds  to  Nehemiah  and  reported  Nehemiah's 
words  to  Tobiah.     In  consequence  of  the  report, 
Tobiah  sent,   letters   to   Nehemiah   to  put  him   in 
fear  (6  17-19).     Nehemiah  seems  to  have  consid- 
ered him  to  be  his  chief  enemy;  for  he  put  him  before 
Sanballat  in  his  prayers  to  God  to  remember  his 
opponents   according   to   their   works    (6  14).     In 
13  4  we  are  told  t  hat  he  was  an  ally  of  Eliashib,  the 
high  priest  who  had  tho  oversight  of  the  chambers  of 
the  house  of  God  and  had  prepared  for  him  as  a 
guest  chamber  the  room  which  had  before  been  used 
as  a  storehouse  for  offerings  of  various  kinds.     Ne- 
hemiah, having  heard  during  his  second  visit  to  Jerus 
of  this  desecration  of  the  temple,  cast  out  the  house- 
hold stuff  of  Tobiah  and  cleansed  the  chambers, 
restoring  the  vessels  of  God  and  the  offerings  as  of 
old. 

(2)  The  eponym  of  a  family  which  returned  with 


Zcrubbabel,   but  could   not  trace  its  descent   (Ezr 
2  00;    Neh  7  02).  R.    DIC-K  WILSON* 

TOBIAS,  to-bl'as: 

(1)  The  son  of  Tobit.     See  TOBIT,  BOOK  OF. 

(2)  Tw/it'as,    Tdli'uiK,  A,   Tuj3iw,    Tohio,  the   father 
(according  to  Jos,  grandfather)  of  HYRCANUS  (q.v.) 
(2  Mace  311). 

TOBIE,  td'bi.     See  TUBIAS. 

TOBIEL,  to-bl'ol,  to'bi-ol  (Topi^X,  Tobt'V,  A, 
Ta>pi^\,  Tohit'l):  The  father  of  Tobit  (Tob  11); 
another  form  of  "Tabeel,"  "God  is  good." 

TOBIJAH,  to-bl'ja  (rWt:  ,  Idbhlyah,  "Yahweh 
is  good") : 

(1)  A  Levitc  in  the  reign  of  Jehoshaphat  whom 
the  king  sent  to  teach  in  the  cities  of  Judah  (2  Ch 
17  8;   VPlit:,  tdbhnjalnl;    LXX  omits). 

(2)  One  of  a  party  of  Jews  that  came  from  Baby- 
lon to  Jerus  with  gold  and  silver  for  a  crown  for 
Zerubbabel  and   Joshua,   or  for   Zerubbabel  alone 
(Zee  6  10.14).     The  crown  was  to  be  stored  in  the 
temple  in  remembrance  of  the  donors  (LXX  in  both 
passages   translates   rT^E   by    XP'VffL/J-0i>  chrf'siiiiui, 
i.e.  rPZlit:,  tobhcyha). 


TOBIT,  tf/bit,  BOOK  OF: 


1.  Name 

2.  Canonicity 

3.  Contents 

4.  Fact  or  Fiction  ? 

5.  Sonic  Sources 


6.  Date 

7.  Place  of  Composition 

8.  Versions 

0.  Original  Language 
LITERATURE 


The  book  is  called  by  the  name  of  its  principal 

hero  which  in  Gr  is  Tw/itr,  Tdhit,  Tw/3eir,  Tdlic'it  and 

(N)  'fwpeiO,  Tobeith.     The  original  Hob 

1.  Name        word  thus  transliterated  (fTD'TE  ,  tdbln- 

yuh)  moans  "Yahweh  is  good."  The 
Gr  name  of  the  son  is  Tw/3fas,  TtihldN,  a  variant  of 
the  same  Hob  word.  In  the  Eng.,  Welsh,  etc,  U'% 
the  father  and  son  are  called  Tobit  and  Tobias 
respectively,  but  in  the  Vulg  both  are  known  by  tho 
same  name — Tobias — the  cause  of  much  confusion. 
In  Syr  the  father  is  called  Tobit,  the  son  Tobiytt, 
following  apparently  the  Gr;  the  former  is  not  a 
transliteration  of  the  Hob  form  given  above  and 
assumes  a  different  etymology,  but  what? 

Though  this  book  is  excluded  from  Protestant 
Bibles  (with  but  few  exceptions),  Tob  4  7-9  is  read 

in  the  Anglican  offertory,  and  at  one 

2.  Canon-      time   Tobias  and    Sarah   occupied    in 
icity  the  marriage   service  of  the  Anglican 

rubrics  the  position  at  present  held  by 
Abraham  and  Sarah.  For  the  position  of  the  book 
in  the  LXN,  Vulg  and  EV,  see  JUDITH,  2. 

The  Book  of  Tob  differs  in  essential  matters  in 
its  various  VSS  and  even  in  different  MSS  of  the 

same   VSS    (cf   LXX).     The   analysis 

3.  Contents  of  tho  book  which  follows  is  based  on 

the  LXX  MSS  BA,  which  EV  follows. 
The  Vulg  differs  in  many  respects. 

The  book  tolls  of  two  Jewish  families,  living,  0110  at 
Nineveh,  tho  other  at  Ecbataiia,  both  of  which  had  fallen 
into  great  trouble,  but  at  length  recovered  their  fortunes 
and  became  united  by  tho  marriage  of  the  son  of  one  to 
the  daughter  of  tho  other.  Tobit  had,  with  his  brethren 
of  the  tribe  of  Naphtali,  boon  taken  captive  by  Ene- 
niessar  (  =  Shalmaneser),  remaining  in  exilo  under  his 
two  successors,  Sennacherib  and  Sarchcdonus  (Esar- 
haddon).  During  his  residence  in  tho  Northern  King- 
dom (Israel)  and  after  his  removal  to  Nineveh  (Assyria), 
he  continued  faithful  to  the  Jewish  religion  and  supported 
the  observances  of  that  religion  at  Jorus.  Moreover,  ho 
fasted  regularly,  gave  alms  freely,  and  buried  such  of 
his  fellow-countrymen  as  had  been  put  to  death  with  the 
approval  or  by  the  command  of  tho  Assyr  king.  Not- 
withstanding this  loyalty  to  the  religion  of  his  fathers 
and  tho  fact  that  ho  buried  Jewish  corpses  intended  to  be 


2991 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


disgraced  by  exposure,  lie  like  other  Jews  (Daniel,  etc) 
won  favor  at  court  by  his  upright  demeanor  and  was 
made  steward  of  the  kind's  estate.  I'uder  the  next  king 
(Sennacherib)  all  this  was  changed,  for  lie  not  only  lost 
his  high  ollice  but  was  deprived  of  his  wealth,  and  came 
perilously  near  to  losing  his  life.  Through  an  accident 
(bird  dung  falling  into  his  eyes)  he  lost  his  sight,  and,  to 
make  bad  worse,  his  wife,  in  the,  manner  of  Job's, 
taunted  him  with  the  futility  of  his  religious  faith.  Job- 
like  he  prayed  that  God  might  take  him  out  of  his  dis- 
tress. 

Now  it  happened  that  at  this  time  another  Jewish 
family ,  equally  loyal  to  the  ancestral  faith,  had  fallen  into 
similar  distress — Kaguol,  his  wife  Kdna  and  his  daughter 
Sarah,  who  resided  at  Kobatana  (Vulg  "  Hages " ;  of 
1  14)  in  Media.  Now  Sarah  was  an  only  daughter, 
comely  of  person  and  virtuous  of  character.  She  had 
been  married  to  seven  successive  husbands,  but  each  one 
of  them  had  been  slain  on  the  bridal  night  by  the  demon 
Asmodcus,  who  seems  to  have  been  eaten  up  with  jeal- 
ousy and  wished  no  other  to  have  the  charming  maid 
whom  lie  loved.  The  parents  of  Tobias  at  \ine\eh. 
like  those  of  Sarah  at  Kcbatana,  wished  to  see  their  only 
child  married  that  they  might  have  descendants,  but 
the  marriage  must  bo  in  each  case  to  one  belonging  to 
the  chosen  race  (.3  7-15;  but  see  7,  below).  The  crux 
of  the  story  is  the  bringing  together  of  Tobias  and  Sarah 
and  the  frustration  of  the  jealous  murders  of  Asmodeus. 
In  the  deep  poverty  to  which  ho  had  been  reduced  Tobit 
bethought  himself  of  the  money  (toil  talents,  i.e.  about 
.0,500)  which  he  had  deposited  with  one  Gabael  of 
Rages  (LXX  A  15,  ltha<j<>i)  in  Media  (see  1  14).  This 
lie  desired  his  son  to  fetch;  but  the  journey  is  long  and 
dangerous,  and  he  must  have  a  trustworthy  guide  which 
he  finds  in  Raphael,  an  angel  sent  by  God,  but  who  ap- 
pears in  the  guise  of  an  orthodox  Jew.  The  old  man  is 
delighted  with  the  guide,  whom,  however,  ho  first  of  all 
carefully  examines,  and  dismisses  his  son  with  strict  in- 
junctions to  observe  tho  Law,  to  give  alms  and  not 
to  take  to  wife  a  non-Jewish  (EV  "strange")  maiden 
(4  :i  If).  Proceeding  on  the  journey  they  make  a,  halt 
on  reaching  the  Tigris,  and  during  a  bath  in  tho  river 
Tobias  sees  a  fish  that  made  as  if  it  would  devour  him. 
The  angel  tells  him  to  seize  tho  fish  and  to  extract  from 
it  and  carefully  keep  its  heart,  liver  and  gall.  Keaehing 
Eobatana  they  are  hospitably  lodged  in  the  homo  of 
Kaguol.and  at  once  Tobias  falls  madly  in  love  with  the 
beautiful  daughter  Sarah,  and  desires  to  have  her  for 
wife.  This  is  approved  by  the  girl's  parents  and  by 
Raphael,  and  tho  marriage  takes  place.  Before  going 
together  for  the  night  the  angel  instructs  the  bridegroom 
to  burn  the  heart  and  liver  of  the  fish  he  had  caught  in 
the  Tigris.  The  smoke  that  resulted  acted  as  a  counter- 
charm,  for  it  drove  away  tho  evil  spirit  who  nevermore 
returned  (8  1  If).  At  the  request  of  Tobias,  Raphael 
leaves  for  Rages  and  brings  from  Gabael  the  ten  talents 
left  in  his  charge;  by  Tobit.  Tobias  and  his  bride  led 
by  tho  angel  now  set  out  for  Nineveh  amid  the  prayers 
and  blessings  of  Raguel  and  with  half  his  wealth.  They 
are  warmly  welcomed  by  the  aged  and  anxious  parents 
Tobit  and  Anna,  and  Tobias'  clog  which  ho  took  with 
him  (5  1(>)  was  so  pleased  upon  getting  back  to  the  old 
home  that,  according  to  the  Vulg  rendering,  he  "ran  on 
before  as  if  bringing  the  news  .....  showing  his  joy 
by  fawning  and  by  wagging  his  tail"  (Vulg  11  9;  cf  E  V 
11  4).  Upon  reaching  his  father,  acting  upon  Raphael's 
directions,  Tobias  heals  Tobit's  demon-caused  blindness 
by  applying  to  the  old  man's  eyes  the  gall  of  the  fish, 
whereupon  sight  returns  and  the  family's  cup  of  happi- 
ness is  full.  The  angel  is  offered  a  handsome  fee  for  the 
services  he  has  rendered,  but,  refusing  all,  he  declares  who 
he  is  and  why  ho  was  sent  by  God,  who  deserves  all  the 
praise,  ho  none.  Tobit,  having  a  presentiment  of  tho 
coming  doom  of  Nineveh,  urges  his  son  to  leave  the 
country  and  make  his  home  in  Media  after  the  death  of  his 
parents.  Tobias  is  commanded  to  write  the;  events  which 
had  happened  to  him  in  a  book  (12  20).  We  then  have 
Tobit's  hymn  of  praise  and  thanksgiving  and  a  record  of 
his  death  at  the  age  of  158  years  (chs  13,  14).  Tobias 
and  Sarah,  in  accordance  with  Tobit's  advice,  leave  for 
Ecbatana.  His  parents-in-law  follow  his  parents  into 
the  other  world,  and  at  the  age  of  127  he  himself  dies, 
though  not  before,  hearing  of  the  destruction  of  Nineveh 
by  Nebuchadnezzar  (14  13-15). 

Luther  seems  to  have  been  the  first  to  call  in 
question  the  literal  historicity  of  this  book,  regard- 
ing it  rather  in  the  light  of  a  didactic 
4.  Factor  romance.  The  large  number  of  details 
Fiction?  pervading  the  book,  personal,  local 
and  chronological,  give  it  the  appear- 
ance of  being  throughout  a  historical  record;  but 
this  is  but  part  of  the  author's  art.  His  aim  is 
to  interest,  instruct  and  encourage  his  readers,  who 
were  apparently  in  exile  and  had  fallen  upon  evil 
times.  What  the  writer  seeks  to  make  clear  is 
that  if  they  are  faithful  to  their  religious  duties, 
giving  themselves  to  prayer  and  almsgiving,  bury- 


Titus  Manius 
Tobit,  Book  of 


ing  their  dead  instead  of  exposing  them  on  the 
"Tower  of  Silence,"  as  did  the  Persians,  then  Cod 
would  be  faithful  to  them  as  He  had  been  to  Tobit. 

That  the  book  was  designed  to  be  a  book  of  religious 
instruction  and  not  a  history  appears  from  the  following 
considerations:  (1)  There  are  historical  and  geographical 
inaccuracies  in  the  book.  It  was  not  Shalmaneser 
(Enemessar)  who  made  the;  tribes  of  Naphtali  and 
Zebulun  exiles  in  Assyria,  but  Tiglath-pileser  (7:(4);  see 
2  K  15  29.  Sennacherib  was  not  the  son  of  Shal- 
maneser (1  15),  but  of  Sargon  the  Tsui-per.  Moreover, 
the  Tigris  does  not  lie  on  the  way  from  Xineveh  to  Kcba- 
tana, as  chs  6f  imply. 

(2)  The  prominence  given  to  certain  Jewish  principles 
and  practices  makes  it  clear  that   the  book  was  written 
on  their  account.      See  1   ;i  ff,  Tobit's  integrity,  his  sup- 
port of  the  Jerus  sanctuary,  his  almsgiving,  etc:    («)   he 
buries  the  dead  bodies  of  Jews;    (/,)  he  and  his  wife  pray; 
(c)   he  teaches  Tobias  to  keep  the  Law,  give  alms,  etc. 
Xote  in   particular  the   teaching   of    Raphael  the   angel 
(12  C>  ff)   and   that  contained   in   Tobit's  song  of  praise 
(eh  13). 

(3)  The    writer    has     borrowed     largely    from    other 
sources,  Bib.  and  non-Bib.,  and  he  shows'  no  regard  for 
correctness  of  facts  so  long  as  he  succeeds  in  making  the 
teaching    clear    and    the    tale    interesting.     Tho    legend 
about  the  angel  who  pretended  to  be  an  orthodox  Jew 
with  a  proper  Jewish  name  and  pedigree  was  taken  from 
popular  tradition  and  could  hardly  have  boon  accepted 
by  the  writer  as  literally  true. 

For  oral  and  written  sources  used  by  the  author  of 
Tob  see  the  next  section.  A  writer  whose  aim  was  to 
give  an  exact  account  of  things  which  happened  would 
hardly  have  gone  to  so  many  sources  belonging  to  such 
different  times,  nor  would  he  bring  into  one  life,  events 
which  in  the  sources  belong  to  many  lives  (Job,  etc). 

The  Book  of  Tob  is  dependent  upon  older  sources, 
oral  or  written,  more  than  is  the  case  with  most 
books  in  tho  Apoc.     The  following  is 
5.  Some         a  brief  statement  of  some  of  these; 
Sources  (1)    The   Hook  of  Job. — Besides  be- 

longing to  the  same  general  class  of 
literature  as  Job,  such  as  deals  with  the  problem  of 
suffering,  Tob  presents  us  with  a  man  in  whose 
career  there  are  alternations  of  prosperity  and  ad- 
versity similar  to  those  that  meet  tis  in  Job.  When 
Anna  reproaches  her  husband  for  continuing  to 
believe  in  a  religion  which  fails  him  at  the  critical 
moment  (Tob  2  14),  we  have  probably  to  see  a 
reflection  of  the  similar  incident  in  Job  ("renounce 
God  and  die"  [Job  2  9]). 

(2)  The    Book    of  Sirarh. — There   are   so   many 
parallels  between  Sir  and  Tob  that  some  kind  of 
dependence  seems  quite  clear.     Take  the  following 
as  typical:    Both  lay  stress  on  the  efficacv  of  alms- 
giving  (4  11;    12  9;    cf  Sir  3  30;    29  12;    40  24). 
Both  teach  the  same  doctrine  of  Sheol  as  the  abode 
of  feelingless  shades  to  which  the  good  as  well  as 
the  bad  go  (3  6.10;    13  2,    cf  Sir  46  19;    14  16; 
17  _28).     The  importance  of  interring  the  dead  is 
insisted  upon  in  both  books  (1  17;    2  3.7;    4  3f; 
cf    Sir  7  33;     30  18;     38  16).     The    same    moral 
duties  are  emphasized:   continued  attention  to  Cod 
and  the  life  He  enjoins  (4  JH.19;    cf  Sir  6  37;    8 
8-14;    35  10;    37  2);    chastity   and   the  duty  of 
marrying  within   one's   own   people    (4  12  f ;    8  6; 
cf  Sir  7  26;    36  24);    proper  treatment  of  servants 
(4  14;  cf  Sir  7  20  f);  the  sin  of  covetousness  (5  18f; 
cf  Sir  5);   see  more  fully  X/>e<iker's  Apoc,  I,  161  f. 

(3)  The  Ahikar  legend. — Wo  now  know  that  the 
story  of  Ahikar  referred  to  in  14  10  existed  in  many 
forms  and  among  many  ancient  nations.     The  sub- 
stance of  the  legend  is  briefly  that  Ahikar  was  prime 
minister    in    Assyria    under    Sennacherib.     Being 
childless  he  adopted  a  boy  Nad  an  (called  "Aman" 
in  14  10)  and  spared  no  expense  or  pains  to  estab- 
lish him  well  in  life.      I'pon  growing  up  the  young 
man  turns  out  badly  and  squanders,  not  only  his 
own  money,  but  that  of  Ahikar.     When  rebuked 
and  punished  by  the  latter,  he  intrigues  against  his 
adoptive  father  and  by  false  letters  persuades  the 
king   that   his   minister   is    a   traitor.      Ahikar    is 
condemned  to  death,  but  the  executioner  saves  the 
fallen  minister's  life  and  conceals  him  in  a  cellar 


Tobit,  Book  of 
Toi 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2(.)(J2 


below  his  (Ahikar's)  house.  In  :i  great  crisis  which 
unexpectedly' arises  the  king;  expresses  the  wish  that 
he  had  still  with  him  his  old  and  (as  he  thought) 
now  executed  minister.  He  is  delighted  to  find  after 
all  that  he  is  alive,  and  he  loses  no  time  in  restoring 
him  to  his  lost  position,  handing  over  to  him  Nadan 
for  such  punishment  as  he  thinks  fit. 

There  can  bo  no  doubt  that  the  "  Aehiacharus "  of 


believed  that  the  story  arose  in  tho  Middle  Ages  under 
the  influence  of  To)).  Modem  scholars,  however,  agree 
that  the  story  is  of  heathen  origin  and  of  older  date  than 
Tob.  Rondel  Harris  published  a  Syr  VS  of  this  legend 
together  with  an  Intro  and  tr  (Cambridge  Press,  1898), 
but  more  important  are  the  references  to  this  tale  m  the 


iknr    from  tin-  N.yr,   .\r<ili.,   Armenia n,   (!r,    Sttinniic   I 'NX 

Conybeare,  J.   Rondel  Harris  and  A.  S.^Lewis,  18!)s, 
1    in"  i)articular    llistoire    ct    tiayusse    d'Ahikar,    par 


by 

and    in    pa 

Francois  Nace,  1U09. 

(4)  The  occurrence  in  14  10  of  "Aman"  for 
"Nudan"  may  show  dependence  upon  Est,  in  whicli 
book  Hainan,  prime  minister  and  favorite  of  Ahas- 
uerus  (Xerxes,  4Sf)-H>4  BC)  exhibits  treachery  com- 
parable with  that  of  Nadan.  But  Est  seems  to  the 
present  writer  to  have  been  written  after  and  not 
before  Tob  (see  Century  Bible,  "Esther,"  299  ff). 
It  is  much  more,  likely  that  a  copyist  substituted, 
perhaps  unconsciously  through  mental  association, 
the  name  Hainan  for  that  which  stood  originally  in 
the  text.  Marshall  (Hl)li,  IV,  7SD)  thinks  that 
the  author  of  Tob  was  acquainted  with  the  Book  of 
Jub,  but  he  really  proves  no  more  than  that  both 
have  many  resemblances.  In  its  angelology  and 
demonology  the  Book  of  Jub  is  much  more  devel- 
oped and  belongs  to  a  later  date  (about  100  BC;  see 
R.  II.  Charles,  Book  of  Jubilee,  Ivi  ff,  Iviii  IT).  But 
the  two  writings  have;  naturally  much  in  common 
because  both  were  written  to  express  the  sentiments 
of  strict  Jews  living  in  the  2d  cent.  BC. 

This  book  seems  to  reflect  the  Maccabean  age, 
an  age  in  which  faithful  Jews  suffered  for  their 
religion.  It  is  probable  that  Jth  and 
6.  Date  Tob  owe  their  origin  to  the  same  set 
of  circumstances,  the  persecutions  of 
the  Jews  by  the  Syrian  party.  The  book  belongs 
therefore  to  about  1GO  BC.  The  evidence  is  ex- 
ternal and  internal. 

(1)  External. — (a)   14  4-9  implies  the  existence 
of  the  Book  of  Jon  and  also  the  completion  and 
recognition  of  the  prophetic.  Canon  (about  200  BC). 
(b)  Since  Sir  is  used  as  a  source,  t  hat  book  must  have 
been  written,  i.e.  Tob  belongs  to  a  later  date  than 
say  ISO  BC.     (c)  The  Christian  Father  Polycarp 
in  112  AD  quotes  from  Tob,  but  then;  is  no  earlier 
allusion  to  the  book.     The  external  evidence  proves 
no  more  than  that  Tob  must  have  been  written 
after  ISO  BC  and  before  112  AD. 

(2)  Internal. —(a)  14  5  f  seems  to  show  that  Jon 
was  written  while  the  temple  of  Zerubbabel  was  in 
exist  ence,  but  before  t  his  st  met  lire  had  been  replaced 
by  the  gorgeous  temple  erected  under  Herod  the 
Great:    i.e.   Tob  was  written  before  25   BC.     (b) 
The  stress  laid  upon  the  burial  of  the  dead  suits 
well  the  period  of  the  Syrian  persecution,  when  we 
know  Antiochus  Epiphanes  allowed  Jewish  corpses 
to  lie  about  unburied.     (c)  We  have  in  Tob  and 
Jth  the  same  zeal  for  the  Jewish  Law  and  its  observ- 
ance which  in  a  special  degree  marked  the  Macca- 
bean  age.     Noldeke  and   Lohr   (Kautzsch,   Apok. 
des  A  T,  136)  argue  for  a  date  about  175  BC,  on  the 
ground  that  in  Tob  there  is  an  absence  of  that  fer- 
vent zeal  for  Judaism  and  that  hatred  of  men  and 


things  non-Jewish  which  one  finds  in  books  written 
during  the  Maeeabean  wars.  But  we  know  for 
certain  that  when  the  Maeeabean  enthusiasm  was 
at  its  height  there  existed  all  degrees  of  fervor 
among  the  Jews,  and  it,  would  be  a  strange  tiling 
if  all  the  literature  of  the  time  represented  but  one 
phase  of  the  national  life. 

We  have  no  means  of  ascertaining  who  wrote  this 
book,  for  the  ascription  of  the  authorship  to  Tobit 
(1  1  i'f)  is  but  a  literary  device.  There 
7.  Place  of  are,  however,  data  which  help  in  fixing 
Composition  the  nationality  of  the  writer  and  the 
country  in  which  he  lived.  That  the 
author  was  a  Jew  is  admitted  by  all,  for  no  other 
than  a  Jew  could  have  shown  such  a  deep  interest 
in  Jewish  things  and  in  the  fortune's  of  the  Jewish 
nation.  Moreover,  the  fact  that  Tobit,  though  a 
member  of  the  Northern  Kingdom,  is  represented 
as  worshipping  at  the  Jems  temple  and  observing 
the  feasts  there  (1  4-7)  makes  it  probable  that  the 
author  was  a  member  of  the  Southern  Kingdom 
wishing  to  glorify  the  religion  of  his  country. 

That  ho  did  not  live  in  Pal  is  suggested  by  several  con- 
siderations: (1)  The  book  describes  the  varying  fortunes 
of  .lews  in  exile,  so  completely  and  with  such  keen  sym- 
pathy as  to  suggest  that  the  writer  was  himself  one  of 
them.  (2)  The  affectionate  language  in  which  he  refers 
to  .lerus  and  its  religious  associations  (1  4  If)  is  such  as 
a  member  of  the  Diaspora  would  use.  (.'5)  'I  he  author 
nowhere  reveals  a  close  personal  knowledge  of  Pal.  1  hat 
Tobit  the  ostensible  author  (1  1),  should  be  set  forth 
as  a  native  of  Galilee  (1  1  f )  is  duo  to  tho  art  of  tho  writer. 

Assuming  that  the  book  was  written  in  a  foreign 
land,  opinions  differ  as  to  which.  The  evidence 
seems  to  favor  either  Persia  or  Egypt.  In  favor  of 
Persia  is  the  Pers  background  of  the  book.  As- 
inodeus  (3  8.17)  is  the  Pers  Aexma  (larva.  The 
duty  of  burying  the  dead  is  suggested  to  the  Jewish 
writer  by  the  Pers  (Zoroastrian)  habit  of  exposing 
dead  bodies  on  the  ''Tower  of  Silence"  to  be  eaten 
by  birds.  Consanguineous  marriages  are  forbid- 
den in  the  Pent  (see  Lev  18  tiff);  but  they  are 
favored  by  Tob  1  «.);  3  15;  4  12;  7  4.  The  latter 
seems  to  show  that  Tobias  and  Sarah  whom  he 
married  were  first  cousins.  Marriages  between 
relatives  were  common  among  the  Iranians  and 
were  defended  by  the  magicians  as  a  religious  duty. 
One  may  say  it  was  allowed  in  the  particular  case 
in  question  on  account  of  the  special  circumstances, 
the  fewness  of  Jews  in  the  parts  where  the  families 
of  Tobit  and  Raguel  lived;  cf  Nu  36  4  ff  for  an- 
other special  case.  The  fact  that  a  dog  is  made  to 
accompany  Tobias  on  his  journey  to  Ecbatana 
(5  17;  if  4)  favors  a  Pers  origin,  but  is  so  repug- 
nant to  Sem  ideas  that  it  is  omitted  from  the  Heb 
VSS  of  this  story  (see  Doc;).  l('"r  an  elaborate  de- 
fence of  a  Pers  origin  of  Tob  see  J.  II.  Moulton,  Ex- 
pos T,  XI,  157  ff;  cf  II.  Maldwyn  Hughes,  The  Ethics 
of  Jewish  A  i>ocri/i)hal  Literature,  42  ff .  The  evidence 
is  not  decisive;  for  a  knowledge  of  Iranian  modes  of 
thought  and  expression  may  be  possessed  by  persons 
living  far  away  from  Iranian  territory.  And  at 
some  points  Tob  teaches  things  contrary  to  Zoroas- 
trianism.  Noldeke  and  Lcihr  hold  that  the  book 
was  composed  in  Egypt,  referring  to  the  facts  that 
the  demon  Asmodeus  on  being  overcome  flees  to 
Egypt  (8  3)  and  that  there  were  Jews  in  Egypt  who 
remained  loyal  to  their  ancestral  faith  and  were 
nevertheless  promoted  to  high  places  in  the  state. 
The  knowledge  of  Mesopotamia  shown  by  the  author 
is  so  defective  (see  4,  above)  that  a  Mesopotamian 
origin  for  the  book  cannot  be  conceived  of. 

Tob  exists  in  an  unusually  large  number  of  MSS  and 

VSS  showing  that  tho  book  was  widely  read  and  rogarded 

as  important.     But  what  is  peculiar  in  the 

o    TT  case  of  this  book  is  that  its  contents  differ 

8.  Versions    largely— and  not  seldom  in  quite  essential 

matters— in  tho  various  MSS,  texts  and  trs 

(see  3,  above). 

Tob  has  conio  down  to  us  in  the  following  languages: 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tobit,  Book  of 
Toi 


(1)  Grerk. — MSS  of  the  Or  text  belong  to  throo  classes: 
(a)    that  found   in   the   uncials   BA    (which   are   almost 
identical)  and  most  (Jr  MSS;  our  Kng.  and  other  modern 
tr«  are  made  from  this;   (l>)  that  of  X  which  deviates  from 
(a)  often  in  important  matters.     The  old  Lat  tallies  with 
this   very  closely;    (<•)    that  of  ("odd.   -11,    10(1  and    107 
(adopting  the  numbers  of  Holmes  and  Parsons),   which 
largely  coincides  with  (/<).     From  7   10  onward  this  text 
forms  the  !>asis  of  the  Syr  (I'esh)  VS.     Opinions  differ 
as  to  which  of  these  three  ( ir  texts  is  the  oldest.    Fritzsche, 
Noldeko  an  1    (irimiu  defend   the   priority  of  BA.       In 
favor  of  this  arc  the  following:    This  text  exists  in  the 
largest  numb  T  of   MSS  and  tr";  it  is   most  frequently 
quoted,  by  the  Fathers  and    other    early  writers;  it  is 
less  diffuse  and  morn  spontaneous,  showing  less  editorial 
manipulation.     "Owald,  Keusch,  Schiirer,  Nestle  and  .J. 
Kondel  Harris  ho'd   that  X  represents  the  oldest  (<r  text. 
Schiirer  ((/./ P1,  111,  2-1:5)  gives  the,  principal  arguments 
for  this  view  (cf    Fuller,  8 i>eak< r'.s    Comm.,  I,  168  f).      X 
is  much  fuller  than  14  \.     Condensation  (cf  B  A)  is  much 
more  likely.  Fuller  and  Schiirer  say,  than  expansion  (SC); 
but  this  is  questioned.      In  some  cases  X  preserves  an 
admittedly  belter  text,    .vhich  is  of  course  true  often  of 
the  LXX  and  even  the  minor  \"SS  as  against  the  MT. 

(2)  Latin.— (,;)  The  Old  Lat  based  on  X  found  in  (a) 
the  editions  published  in  1751  by  Sabbatnier  (liib.  Sac. 
Lat  VSS  Antiq.);    (ft)  in  the  Book  of  Tob  (A.  Neubauer, 
1878).     This  text  exists  in  at  ieast  three  recensions.      (l>) 
The  Vulg,  which  simply  reproduces  Jerome's  careless  tr 
made  in  a  single  night;    see   (3/.      In  .1th  and  Tob  the 
Vulg  is  in  every  respect  identical  with  its  tr  made  by 
Jerome. 

(3)  Aramaic  (a  term  which  stric'ly  embraces  Syr). — 
(n)  That  from  which  Jerome's  Jewish  help  made  the  He!) 
that  formed  the   basis  of   Jerome's  Lat   VS.      We  have 
no  copy  of  this  (see  next  section),      (G)   That  published 
by  Neubauer  (Hunk  of  Tob,  a  Chaldee  Text)  which  was 
found  by  him  imbedded  iu  a  Jewish  Mulr  of  the  15th 
cent.     Neubauer  was  convinced  and  tried  to  prove  that 
this  is  the  VS  which  Jerome's  teacher  put  intr>  II eb  and 
which  therefore  formed  the  basis  of  Jerome's  own  VS. 
In  favor  of  this  is  the  fact  that  in  chs  1-36,  and  there- 
fore throughout  the  book,  Tob  is  spoken  of  in  the,  third 
person  alike  in  this  Aram.  (Chaldee)  VS  and  in  Jerome's 
Lat  tr;   whereas  in  all  the  other  VSS  (cf  chs  1-36)  Tob 
speaks  in  the  first  person  ("  I,"  etc).     But  the  divergences 
between  this  Aram,  and  Jerome's  Lat  VSS  are  numerous 
and   important,   and   Neubauer'a  explanations   are    in- 
adequate (op.  cit.,  vi  ff).     Besides,  Dalman  (Grammatik 
des  jiid.-palrst.    Aram,,    1894,    27-129)     proves    from    the 
language  that  this  VrS  belongs  to  the  7th  cent.  AD  or  to 
a  later  time. 

(4)  Ruriac. — Tho  text  of  this  VS  was  first  printed  in 
the  London  Poli/glot  (vol  IV)    and   in  a  critically  revised 
form  in  the  Lib.  A/>oc.   Vet.   Text.  ,S .//;•.  of  Lagarde.     This 
text  consists  of  parts  of  two  different  VSS.     The  Hex- 
aplar  text  based  on  the  usual  MSS  (B  A,  etc)  is  used  from 
1    1 — 7  9.      From    7   10    onward    the    text   corresponds 
closely  with  the  ( !r,  S?,  and  p  esp.  in  parts,  with  the  MSS 
44,  106,  107.     See  fully  Schurer,  GJ  V,  244  If. 

(5)  Jlcbrew. — None   of   the   Heb   recensions   are   old. 
Two  Heb  texts  of  Tob  have  been  known  since  the  Kith 
cent.,   having   been  printed  then  and   often   afterward. 
Both  are  to  be  found  in  the  London  Polyijlnt.     (a)  That 
known  as  Hchraeas    Munsteri  (HM),  from  the  fact  that 
it  was  published  at  Basel  in  1542  by  Sebastian  Minister, 
though  it  had  also  been  printed  in  1510  at  Constanti- 
nople.     (6)    That   known    as    Hebraeus    Fa</ii   (HF),    on 
account  of  the  fact  that  Paul  Fagius  published  it  in  1542. 
It  had,  however,  been  previously  published,  i.e.  in  Con- 
stantinople in   1517.     HF  introduces   Bib.   phraseology 
wherever  possible.     Since  these  are  comparatively  lato 
tr*  they  have  but  little  critical  value,  and  the  same  state- 
ment applies  to  the  two  following  Heb  tr9  discovered, 
edited  and  tr1  by  Dr.  M.  Gaster  (see  PSBA,  XVIII, 
204  If,  259  ff;  XIX,  27  IT):    (a)  A  Heb  MS  found  in  the 
British  Museum  and  designated  by  him  HL.     This  MS 
agrees  with  the  Vulg  and  Aram,  at  some  points  where 
the  other  authorities  differ,  and  Dr.  Gaster  thinks  it  not 
unlikely  that  in  H  Ij  we  have  a  copy  of  the  original  text. 
He  has  not  been  followed  by  any  scholar  in  this  opinion. 
(:i)   Dr.  Gaster  copied  some  years  ago  from  a  Heb  Midr, 
apparently  no  longer  existing,  a  condensed  Heb  VS  (HG) 
of  Tob.     Like   II  h  it,  agrees   often   with  the  Vulg  and 
Aram,  against  oilier  VSS  and  MSS. 

(('))  Ethiopic. —  Dillmaim  has  issued  the  ancient  Ethi- 
opic  VSS  in  his  liildia  Veteris  Textamcnti  Act/iio  pica,  V, 
1894. 

The  majority  of    modern  scholars,  who  have  a 

better  knowledge  of   Sem  than  the  older  scholars, 

hold  that  the  original  text  of  Tob  was 

9.  Original    Sem  (Aram,  or  Heb) ;  so  Ewald,  Hilgen- 

Language      feld,  Graetz,  Neubauer,  Bickell,  Fuller 

(Speaker's  Apoc),  Marshall  (HDB).     In 

favor  of  this  are  (ho  following  considerations:  (1)  The 

existence  of  an  Aram,  text  in  Jerome's  day  (see  [3], 

above).     (2)  The  proper  names  in  the  book,  male 

and  female,  have  a  Sem  character.     (3)  The  style  of 


the  writer  is  Sem  rather  than  Aryan,  many  of  the 
expressions  making  bad  (ir,  but  when  turned  into 
Sem  yielding  good  Aram,  or  Hob.  See  the  argu- 
ments as  set  out  by  Fuller  (Speaker's  Apoc,  I, 
1(54  ff).  Marshall  (HDB,  11  1,  T.XSj  gives  his  reasons 
for  concluding  (hat  (lie  original  language  was  Aram., 
not  Heb,  in  this  opinion  following  Neubauer  (op. 
cit.).  draetx  (MonatsNchriftfur  d'cxchicfite  and  Wis- 
scnschaft  i/ir  Jiidtn,  1S71),  3S(i  ff)  gives  his  grounds 
for  deciding  for  a  Heb  original.  That  the  book 
was  written  in  (!r  is  (ho  view  upheld  by  Frilzsohe, 
Noldeko,  \V.  R.  Smith,  Schiirer  and  Lohr.  The  text 
of  HA,  says  Lohr,  contains  Gr  of  the  most  idiomatic 
kind,  and  gives  no  suggestion  of  being  a,  translation. 
LITKRATUKK.  —  Mucli  of  the  best  literature  has  been 
cited  in  the  course  of  the  preceding  article.  See  also  "  Lit- 
eral lire"  in  art.  APOCBYPHA,  for  text  .  comrns.,  etc.  and  the 
Bible  Diets.,  Kit  (\V.  Krbt)  and  III)  It  (J.  T.  Marshall). 
Note  in  addition  the  following:  K.  D.  Ilgen,  Din  (je- 
schichteTobiax,  narh  den  dr<  t  versfhiedtin-nOrialnalen.Grie- 
chitch,  Lateinisch  u.  Si/r.,  etc,  1SOO;  Ewald,  (l>'«ch.',  IV, 
209-74;  Graetz,  Gesch.z,  IV,  4<>Glf;  Noldeke,  "  Die  Texte 
deaBuchsTo\3,"  Monatsschriftder  Berlin  A  cad.,  1X79,  45  if; 
Bickell,  "A  Source  of  tin;  Book  of  Tob,"  Athenaeum,  1890, 
700  If;  1891,  123  If;  I.  Abrahams,  "  Tobit's  Dog,"  Jewish 
Quarterly  Review,  I,  3,  288;  E.  Cosquin,  "l.e  livre  de 
Tobie  et  1'histoire  du  sage  Aliikar,"  Her.  Hib.  Int.,  VIII, 
1899,  50-82,  510-31,  rejects  K.  Harris'  views;  Margarete 
Plath,"Zum  T^uch  Tob,"  Stud.  und  Krit.,  1901,  377-414; 
1.  Levi,  "  La  langue  originate  de  To!),"  ]{<<r.  J  uir,-,  XLIV 
1902,  288-91,  Oxford  Apocrypha,  "Tobit"  (full  bibliog- 
raphy). 

T.  WITTON  DAVIES 

TOCHEN,  io'ken  flDn  ,  tokhen,  "task,"  "meas- 
ure"; B,  QOKKO.,  Thdkka,  A,  ©oxxav,  Thdchchan): 
One  of  the  cities  of  Simeon,  mentioned  with  llim- 
mon  and  Ashan  (1  Ch  4  32).  The  name  does  not 
appear  in  Joshua's  list  (19  7),  but  in  that  place;  LXX 
gives  Thokka,  from  which  we  may  infer  that  the 
name  has  fallen  out  in  the  Heb.  It  is  not  identi- 
fied. 


TOGARMAH,  tn-gar'ma  (np^j     ,  rTEn.Vin  ,  to- 

gharnidh;    ©op-yand,   Thon/amd,  ©tpYifid,  Tficryamd, 

0vp-ya(id,    Thurgamd,    Qvp-yaficL,    Thur- 

1.  Its  (jabd;    \'ulg    Thorgonia):     Tho  3d  son 
Forms:  A      of  (Joiner,  and  grandson  of    Japheth, 
Suggested     his  brothers  being   Ashkonaz  and  Ri- 
Identifica-      j)hath    (don  10  3).      The   meaning   of 
tion  the  name  is  doubtful,     driimn  (dcsch. 

de-iilsch.  Sprache,  II,  325)  suggests 
Sanskr.  toka,  "tribe,"  and  armo  =  Armenia.  Ety- 
mological and  other  difficulties  stand  in  the  way  of 
Fr.  Delitzsch's  identification  of  Togarmah  with  the 
Assyr  Til-garimmu,  "hill  of  Garimmu,"  or,  possibly, 
"of  (he  bone-heap,"  a  fortress  of  Melitone,  on  the 
borders  of  Tabal  (Tubal). 

In  l^zk  27  14  Togarmah  is  mentioned  after  Tubal, 

Javan  and  Mesech  as  supjjlying  horses  and   mules 

to   the  Tyrians,  and  in  38  6  it  is  said 

2.  Probably  to  have  supplied  soldiers  to  the  army 
Armenia  or    of   dog    (dygos    of    Lydia).       In    the 
a  Tract  Assyr  inscriptions   horses    came   from 
Connected     Kusu   (neighborhood  of    Cappadocia), 
Therewith     Andia  and  Mannu,  to  the  N.  of  Assyria. 

Both  Kiopert  and  Dillmann  regard 
Togarmah  as  having  been  Southeastern  Armenia, 
and  this  is  at  present  the  general  opinion.  The 
ancient  identification  of  their  eoundy  with  Togar- 
mah by  the  Armenians,  though  correct,  is  probably- 
due  to  the  LXX  transposition  of  g  and  r  (Thorgamd 
for  Togarmah),  which  has  caused  them  to  see  therein 
the  name  of  Thorgom,  father  of  Haik,  the  founder 
of  their  race  (Moses  of  Khor,  I,  4,  sees.  9-11).  Ezk 
27  14  (Swete)  alone  has  g  before  r:  Oarypa/xd,  Thni- 
grnmd.  The  name  "Armenia"  dates  from  the  5th 
cent.  BC.  See  AUMKNIA;  TABLE  OF  NATIONS. 

T.  d.   I'I.VCHES 
TOHU,  to'hu.     See  NAHATH. 

TOI,  to'I,  -i.     See  Tou. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Token 
Tongues,  Gift  of 

TOKEN,  to'k'n  (r;X  ,  Ttth,  usually  rendered 
"sign"  [on  Dt  22  14  IT  see  (he  comms.J):  "Sign" 
and  "token"  are  virtually  synonymous  words  and 
in  AY  are  used  with  little  or  no  distinction  (in  Kx 
13,  cf  vs  9  and  H>).  If  there  is  any  difference, 
''token"  is  perhaps  more  concrete  and  palpable 
than  "sign,"  hut  this  difference  cannot  he  stressed. 
The  modern  use  of  "token,"  however,  as  a  ••memo- 
rial of  something  past  "  is  found  in  Xu  17  10;  -Josh 
2  12.  HV  lias  substituted  "sign"  in  Kx  13  lt>; 
Ps  135  9;  Isa  44  2.1.  and  AKV  has  "evidence"  in 
Job  21  29  (a  needlessly  prosaic  change).  The  four 
XT  examples,  Mk  14  44;  Phil  1  2s;  2  Thes.s  1 
f>;  3  17  (.each  for  a  different  (if  word)  are  self- 
explanatory.  See  SKIN. 

BTHTOX  SCOTT  K  ASTON 

TOKHATH,  tok'hath.     See  TIKVAII. 


2994 


,    tdkV,    "worm"    or 


arlet 


TOLA,  to'la 

stuff"): 

(1)  One  of  the  four  sons  of  Tssachar  ((ien  46  13; 
1  (Mi  7   1),  mentioned  among  (hose  who  journeyed 
to    Egypt    with    .Jacob    (den  46  8  f),    anil    in    the 
census' taken   by   Moses  and   Elea/ar,    as  father  of 
the  Tolaites   (Xu  26  23)   whose  descendants  in  the 
reign    of    David   included   22,tiOO   "mighty    men   of 
valor"  (1  (Mi  7  2). 

(2)  One  of  the  .Judges,  the  son  of  Puah,  a  man  of 
Issachar.      He  dwelt  in  the  hill  country  of  Kphraim 
in  the  village  of  Shamir,  where1  after  judging  Israel 
23  years  he  was  buried  (Jgs  10  1.2).      In  the  order 
of  succession  he  is  placed  between  Abimelech  and 
.lair.     It  is  interesting  to  note  that  both  Tola  and 
Puah    are    names    of    colors,    and    that     they    occur 
together  both  in  (hi-  case  of  the  judge  and  in  that  of 
the    sons    of    Issachar.     They    may    therefore    be 
looked  upon  as  popular  typical  or  ancestral  names 
of    the     Issachar    tribe,    although    current     critical 
theories  seek  an  explanation  in  a  confusion  of  texts. 

KI.LA   DAVIS  ISAACS 
TOLAD,  to'lad.      See  Kl.Tol.AI). 

TOLAITES,  td'la-Its.     See  TOLA. 

TOLBANES,    fol'ba-ne/,,     tol-ba'nez     (ToXpdvT]?, 

'r<>ll>dii('x):  One  of  (lie  porter*  who  had  taken  for- 
eign wives  (1  Esd  9  2.V)  -  "M'elem"  of  Kzr  10  24; 
perhaps  identical  with  the  porter  Talmon  (Xeh  12 
25). 

TOLL,  tdl:  (1)  Aram.  !~n^  ,  iniddali,  "toll"  or 
"tribute"  paid  bv  a  vassal  nation  to  its  conqueror 
(E/r  4  20;  6  S;'  Xeh  54;;  written  also  r\~"^i2 , 
inindah  (K/.r  4  13;  7  24;.  More  accurately  for 
Tfbn,  Mlakh,  "toll,"  or  "way  tax"  (4  13.20;  7  24). 
Ill  XT  limes  the  Romans  had  placed  throughout 
Pal  many  toil  stations  (re\wviov,  t<  Ion  ion).  Levi 
the  publican  was  stationed  at  such  a  tax  office  (Mt 
9  9;  Mk  2  14;  Lk  5  27);  cf  reXci^s,  tdfiiu'x,  a 
"tax  collector"  or  "publican."  The  tax  which  the 
Jews  paid  toward  the  support  of  the  temple,  a 
didrachma,  is  called  rAo9,  ielos,  "loll"  (Ml  17 
2"»,  the  same  as  the  word  rendered  "tribute"  (Rom 
13  7). 

TOMB,  timm. 


EDWARD  BAOHY  POLLARD 


S(-(-  BURIAL. 


TOMORROW,  too-mor'o.     See  MORROW. 

TONGS,  tongz  (DIHpb'Q ,  i/nlkahnt/un):  This 
word  is,  where  it-  occurs  in  AY  and  ER.Y,  with  two 
exceptions,  changed  in  ARY  into  "snuffers"  (Ex  25 
3S;  Nu  4  9;  2Ch421;  see  SNUFFERS).  The 
exceptions  are  1  K  7  49,  "tongs  of  gold,"  and 
Isa.  6  u,  "taken  with  the  tongs  from  off  the  altar." 


In  Isa  44  12,  where  another  word  ("^""E,  inn'ni-ailh) 
is  used,  "t  he  smit  h  wit  h  t  he  tongs"  of  AY  is  changed 
in  RY  into  "the  smith  maketh  an  axe"  vcf  Jer 
10  3).  See  also  AI.TAK;  TOOLS. 

TONGUE,  lung:  Almost  invariably  for  either 
"jTiL'p  ,  laxhon,  or  7\<£<r<ra,  (/lo.wi,  the  latter  vord  with 
the  cognates  erepby \uffffos,  hcteroglossos,  ''of  strange 
tongues"  (1  Cor  14  2!  >,  7Xcoo-<7u>5?)s,  gldiwjdcs,  "talk- 
ative." EY  "full  of  tongue"  (Sir  8  3;  fi  IS),  y\w<r- 
a-oTo/j.ew,  </ld*.-«>t/»ii('t~>,  "to  cut  out  i  he  tongue" 
(2  Mace  7  4),  5i~;Xco<r<Tos,  diglosros,  "double- 
tongued"  (Sir  5  9;  28  13).  In'  1  Tim  3  S,  how- 
ever, "double-tongued"  is  for  8l\oyos,  dilogos,  lit. 
"two-worded."  Where  "tongue'  in  AY  translates 
SEXTOS,  didlcktos  (Acts  1  19:  2  S;  21  40;  22  2; 
26  II),  RY  has  "language."  vvhile  for  AY  "in  the 
Hebrew  tongue"  in  .In  52;  Rev  9  11;  16  It; 
(']•]. -tfiaio-Ti,  Hdirii'ixti)  R\'  has  simply  "in  Hebrew." 
In  add  it  ion,  in  (lie  ( )T  airi  Apoc,  AY  uses  "to  hold 
one's  tongue"  as  a  tr  for  various  verbs  meaning 
"to  be  silent";  RY  in  '  he  OT  writes  "to  hold  one's 
peace"  and  in  the  A'IOC  "to  be  silent,"  except  in 
Sir  32  S,  where  AY  ;s  retained  (tnuwdu,  siopdo). 

M'he  various  uses  of  "tongue"  in  Kng.  are  all 
])ossil)U>  also  for  Idxltdn  and  (/loxxtt,  whether  as  the 
])hysical  organ  ^Ex  11  '7;  Mk  7  33,  etc)  or  as 
meaning  "language"  (('.en  10  .">;  Acts  2  4,  etc) 
or  as  descrJ)ing  anything  shaped  like  a  tongue 
(Isa  11  1"-;  Acts  2  3.  etc).  In  addition,  both 
words,  '  sp.  lashon.  appear  in  a  wider  range  of  mean- 
ings than  can  be  taken  by  "tongue"  in  modern  Kng. 
So  the  tongue  appears  as  the  specific  organ  of 
speech  when-  we  should  prefer  "mouth"  or  "lips" 
(Ex  4  10;  Ps  71  24;  78  3(1;  Prov  16  1;  Phil  2 
11,  etc),  and  hence  •'tongue"  is  used  figuratively 
for  the  words  uttered  (.Job  6  30;  Ps  139  4; 
1  .In  3  IS,  etc).  So  the  tongue  can  be  said  to  have 
moral  qualities  (Ps  109  2;  Prov  15  4,  etc)  or  to 
be  "glad"  (Acts  2  20);  to  "love  with  the  tongue" 
(I  .In  3  IS)  is  to  love  in  word  only,  and  to  be 
"double-tongued"  (Sir  6  9;  2813;  1  Tim  3  8) 
is  to  be  a  liar.  A  further  expansion  of  this  figura- 
tive use  has  produced  expressions  that  sound  slight  ly 
l>i/arre  in  Kng.,  although  their  meaning  is  clear 
enough:  e.g.,  "Who  have  whet  their  tongue  like  a 
sword"  (Ps  64  3);  "His  tongue  is  as  a  devouring 
fire"  (Isa  30  27);  "My  tongue  is  the  pen  of  a 
ready  writer"  ( Ps  45  l"),  and,  esp.,  "Their  tongue 
walketh  through  the  earth"  (Ps  73  9). 

lu  Job  20  12,  "Though  wickedness  be  sweet  in 
his  mouth,  though  he  hide  it  under  his  tongue,"  the 
figure  is  that  of  an  uncultured  man  rolling  a  choice 
morsel  around  in  his  mouth  so  as  to  extract  Hu- 
nt most  flavor.  In  Ps  10  7;  66  17  (RYm),  how- 
ever, "under  the  tongue"  means  "in  readiness  to 
utter,"  while  in  Cant  4  11,  "Honey  and  milk  are 
under  thy  tongue,"  the  pleasure  of  a  caress  is  de- 
scribed. 'To  "divide  their  tongue"  (Ps  55  9)  is  to 
visit  on  offenders  the  punishment  of  Babel.  See 

ToXCTKS,    CoM'TSION    OK. 

BTRTON*  SCOTT  EASTON 

TONGUES,  fungz,  CONFUSION  OF:  Accord- 
ing to  Gen  11  1-9,  at  some  time  not,  very  long  after 

the    Flood,    "the   whole  earth   was  of 
1.  The  one  language-  and  of  one  speech.     And 

Narrative       it   came   to   pass,    as   they   journeyed 

east"  (the  "they"  is  left  vague)  that 
they  settled  in  the  land  of  Shinar  (Babylonia). 
There  they  undertook  to  build  "a  city,  and  a  tower, 
whose  top  may  reach  unto  heaven,"  using  the  Bab 
burned  brick  and  "slime"  as  building  materials. 
The  motive  was  to  "make  us  a  name;  lest  we  be 
scattered  abroad  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth. 
This  seems  to  mean  that  the  buildings  would  give 
them  a  reputation  for  impregnability  that  would 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Token 
Tongues,  Gift  of 


secure  them  against  devastating  invasions.  "And 
Jeh  came  down  to  see."  And  lie  said,  "Nothing 
will  be  withholden  from  them,  which  they  purpose 
to  do.  Come,  let  us  go  down,  and  there  confound 
their  language."  The  persons  spoken  to  are  not 
named  (cfden  1  2(i;  3  22),  nor  is  it  explained  how 
Jeh,  who  in  ver  f>  was  on  earth,  is  now  in  heaven. 
"So  Jeh  scattered  them  abroad  from  thence,"  and 
the  name  of  the  city  was  "called  Babel  [hahhti}; 
because  Jeh  did  there  confound  [bdltil]  the  lan- 
guage of  all  (ho  earth:  and  from  thence  did  Jeh 
scatter  thorn  abroad  upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth." 
The  purpose  of  this  narrative  is  the  explanation 
of  the  diversity  of  human  languages.  They  origi- 
nated through  an  act  of  Jeh,  in  order  to  destroy  the 
presumpt  uous  designs  of  the  first  builders  of  Babylon. 

The  section  admit  tedly  belongs  to  J  and  it  lias  no  con- 
nection with  the  matter  (mostly  P)  in  (Jen   10.      .For  ch 
10  explains  the  origin  of  the  nations  "every 
2    Context     <)nt>  aft>T  his  tongue,  after  their  families'1 
Lie-x.1     (vs  -  .,0  ;U)  as  du(,  to  the  orderly  migration 
and  gradual  spreading  of  the  sons  and  de- 
scendants of  Isioah,  and  names  Xinirod  (ver  10)   as  the 
sole    founder    of    Habylon.      Xor    does    11    1-9    logicallv 
continue  the  ,J  matter  in  ch  9,  as  too  many  persons  are 
involved  for  the  time  immediately  following  the  Flood 
Still,  it  is  quite  possible  that,  some  J  matter  was  dropped 
when  the  J   and  P  sources  were  united  at  this  point 
Another  possibility  is   to  see  in  Gen  11   1-9  the  con- 
tinuation of  (ien  4   K>-24,  which  it  carries  on  smoothlv 
with  the  same  distrust  of  human  culture.      The  murderer 
Cam  went  to  the  K.  of  Kden  (4  16),  and  his  descendants 
brought  in  the  knowledge  of  the  various  arts  (4  20-21') 
I  hese    descendants    journeyed    still    farther    to    the    E 
(11  2).  attempted  to  use  their  skill  in  building  lie  tower 
and  were  punished   by  the    bnl<d  catastrophe       Xo  ac- 
count of  the  Deluge  could  have  followed,  for  all  the  di- 
versities of  languages  would  have  been  wiped  awav  bv 
that   event. 

This  assumption  of  a  special,  early  source  within  I 
probably  best  explains  the  facts.  It  is  indicated  bv  the 
very  primitive,  naive  theology,  which  is  much  less  de- 
veloped than  that  of  J  as  a  whole.  And  the  obscure 
relation  of  (ten  11  1-!)  to  the  Flood  narrative  is  ac- 
counted for,  for  two  narratives  were  combined  here  one 
of  which  contained  an  account  of  the  Deluge,  while  the 
other  did  not. 

By  using  the  repeated  "going  down"  of  vs  5.7  as  a  clue 
the  section  can  be  resolved  fairly  easily  into  two  narra- 
tives, e.g.  (1)  The  men  build  a  tower,  "whose 
3.  Homo-        t'"!'  ma>"  r(':w'h  UIlto  heaven,"  in  order  to 
p-pnpitv  Ina.a'  il  n!lm('  for  themselves  as  marvelous 

geiieuy  builders.     Jeh,  seeing  the  work  beginning 

and  "lest  nothing  be  withholden  from 
them,  etc,  goes  down  and  confounds  their  language 
(2)  The  men  build  a  rit.i/,  as  a  defensive  measure  "lest 
we  be  scattered  abroad  on  the  face  of  the  whole  earth  " 
Jeh  goes  down  to  see  and  scatters  them  abroad  For 
other  analyses  see  the  comms.  But  they  are  harcllv 
imperatiye.  For  C2>  gives  no  motive  for  Jeh's  action 
while  city  and  "tower,"  "confusion  of  tongues"  ami 
scattering,"  are  complementary  rather  than  parallel 
terms.  The  supposition  that  a  few  words  describing 
Jeh's  return  to  heaven  have  disappeared  somewhere 
from  ver  6  relieves  the  awkwardness. 

The  "historicity"  of  the  narrative  will  bo  upheld 
by  very  few  persons  of  the  present  day.     Human 
languages  began  to  diverge  (if,  indeed 
there  ever  was  such  a  thing  as  a  prirni- 
toricity  tive  language)   tens,  if  not  hundreds, 

of  thousands  of  years  before  the  build- 
ing of  Babylon  and  long  before  human  beings  had 
attained  enough  skill  to  erect  the  most  rudimentary 
structures,  let  alone  such  an  elaborate  affair  as  the 
brick-built  city  and  tower  of  Babel.  And  what  is 
true  of  languages  as  a  whole  is  equally  true  of  the 
languages  spoken  in  the  vi-inity  of  Pal.  If  Egyp, 
Hittite,  arid  the  Sern  group  have  any  common 
point  of  origin,  it  lies  vastly  back  of  the  time  and 
cultural  conditions  presupposed  in  (ien  11  ]-<). 
It  is  needless  to  enlarge  on  this,  but  for  the  harm 
done  by  a  persistent  clinging  to  the  letter  of  the 
narrative,  White's  History  of  the  Warfare  of  Science 
with  Theology  may  be  consulted.  It  belonged  to 
the  genius  of  the  Hebrews  to  seek  religious  explana- 
tions of  the  things  around  them.  And  such  an 
explanation  of  the  origin  of  languages  is  the  content 
of  Gen  11  1-9. 


I  his  explanation  seems,  as  yet,  to  bo  without 
parallel,  for  the  tr  of  the  fragmentary  British 
Museum  Inscription  K  36757  is  cn- 
5.  Sources  tirely  uncertain.  Indeed,  legends  as 
to  how  (lie  differences  of  human  speech 
began  seem  to  bo  extremely  scanty  everywhere,  as 
if  the  question  were  not  one  that  occupied  the 
minds  of  primitive"  people.  Comparative;  folklore 
still  has  much  work  to  do  as  regards  this  special 
topic  (for  a  few  references  see  Enc  Brit,  llth  od,  art. 
"Babel,"  and  Gunkel,  (A;//c*i.s;i,  in  loc.).  The  other 
features  of  the  narrative,  however,  are  without 
groat  significance.  Buildings  that  wen;  unfinished 
because  the  builders  offended  the  gods  are  fairly 
abundant,  and  it  is  quite  possible  that  the  writer 
of  Gen  11  1-9  had  some  particular  Bab  structure 
in  mind  (see  BABEL,  TOWER  OF).  Nor  are  at  tempts 
of_  men  to  climb  into  heaven  difficult  to  con- 
ceive, when  the  sky  is  thought  of  (as  it  nearly 
always  was  until  comparatively  modern  times)  as 
a  material  dome.  So  Gr  Bar  (3  (if)  specifies  that 
they  "built  the  tower  to  the  height  of  403  cubits. 
And  they  took  a  gimlet,  and  sought  to  pierce  (lie 
heaven,  saying,  Lot  us  see  whether  the  heaven  is 
made  of  clay,  or  of  brass,  or  of  iron."  Closely 
parallel  to  the  Babel  story  is  the  Gr  legend  of  the 
giants,  who  piled  Pelion  on  Ossa  in  their  attempt  to 
storm  the  dwelling  of  (ho  gods,  and,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  the  two  accounts  seem  to  be  combined  in 
Sib  Or  3  97-104. 

_  Whether  aided  by  a  tradition  about  some  par- 
ticular Bab  tower  or  not,  the  localization  of  the 
story  in  Babylonia  was  inevitable.  The  Baby- 
lonians, above  all  nations  in  the  world,  relied  on  their 
wisdom  and  their  skill,  and  so  nowhere  but  in  Baby- 
lon would  this  supreme  presumption  have  been 
possible.  Babylon,  the  embodiment  of  pride,  at 
the  very  beginning  of  her  existence  was  guilty  of  an 
act  of  pride  so  overwhelming  as  to  call  out  God's 
vengeance.  The  "folk-etymology"  babhel-balal  (in 
Aram,  babhel-balbel)  may  have  been  suggested  by 
this  story,  or  (perhaps  more  probably)  it  may  have 
originated  separately,  perhaps  at  first  as  a  piece  of 
deliberate  irony.  Certainly  the  many  languages 
that  could  be  hoard  in  Babylon  wore  "not  without 
significance  for  the  story. 

The  religious  value  of  the  story  is  dimmed  for 
the  modern  reader  because  of  the  very  primitive 
concepts  that  it  contains.     The  men 
6.  Religious  are  able  to  build  up  into  heaven.     In 
Value  order  to  see  what  they  are  doing  Jeh 

is  obliged  to  "come  down."  He  is 
obliged  to  take  action  lost  His  dwelling-place  be  in- 
vaded (cf  Gen  3  22).  And  the  "let  us  go  down" 
of  ver  7,  while  certainly  not  polytheistic,  is  equally 
certainly  a  polytheistic  "remnant."  On  the  other 
hand,  it  is  to  be  noted  that  God's  power  is  never  in 
question  and  that  there  is  no  desperate  and  uncer- 
tain battle  as  in  the  Gr  legend.  Important,  also 
(and  often  overlooked),  is  the  realization  that  God's 
power  is  just  as  active  in  Babylon  as  it  is  in  Pal. 
The  primal  moaning  to  the  Israelite,  however,  was 
this:  In  Babylon  was  seen  the  greatest  enemy  of 
the  people  of  God,  possessing  immeasurable  re- 
sources. Humanly  speaking,  there  were  no  limits 
o  this  power,  and  if  it  had  boon  uncontrolled  at  the 
beginning,  all  the  world  would  have  been  over- 
whelmed with  the  rule  of  evil.  This  God  had  pre- 
vented. 

LITERATURE. —  Driver  in  llhli;  Cheyne  (art.  "Babel 
Tower  of")  in  KH;  the  comms.  on  Uen,  esp.  those  of 
Skinner,  Driver,  Procksch,  and  Gunkcl. 

BIKTO.V  SCOTT  E  \RTON 

TONGUES,  GIFT  OF:  A  spiritual  gift  men- 
tioned in  Acts  10  44-40;  11  15;  19  6;  Mk  16  17, 
uid  described  in  Acts  2  1-13  and  at  length  in  1 
oor  12-14,  esj).  oh  14.  In  fact,  1  Cor  14  contains 


Tongues,  Gift  of 
Tongues  of  Fire 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2096 


such  !i  full  and  clear  account   that   this  passage  is 
basic       The  speaker   in   a   tongue   addressed   Lrod 
(vs   2.2S)   in   prayer    (ver   14),  prmei- 
1    Basic         pally    in    the   prayer   of   thanksgiving 
Character       (vs    15-17).      The    words    so    uttered 
of  1  Cor  14    were  incomprehensible  to  the  congrega- 
tion  (vs  2. :>.<),  etc),  and  even  to  the 
sneaker  himself  (ver  14).     Edification    indeed,  was 
Alined  by  the  speaker    (ver  4),  but  this  was  the 
edification  of  emotional  experience  only    (ver   14). 
The,  words  were  spoken  "in  the  spirit      (ver  2);    IP. 
the    ordinary    faculties    were    suspended    and    the 
Divine,  specifically  Christian,  element  in  the  man 
took  control,  so  that  a  condition  of  ecstasy  was  pro- 
duced     This    immediate    (mystical)    contact   with 
the  Divine  enabled  the  utterance  of  "mysteries 
(ver  2)— things  hidden  from  the  ordinary  human 
understanding  (see  MYSTERY).     In  order  to  make 
the    utterances    comprehensible    to    the    congrega- 
tion  the  services  of  an  "interpreter"  were  needed. 
Such    a    man    was    one    who    had    received  from 
C.od  a  special  gift  as  extraordinary  as  the  gifts  of 
miracles,  healings,  or  the  tongues  themselves   (12 
1030);    i.e.  the  ability  to  interpret  did  not  rest  at 
all  on  natural  knowledge,  and  acquisition  of  it  might 
be  given  in  answer  to  prayer  (14  IM).     Those  who 
had  this  gift  were  known,  and  St.  Paul  allowed  the 
public  exercise  of  "tongues"  only  when  one  of  the 
interpreters  was  present  (ver  2S).     As  the  presence 
of   an   interpreter   was   determined   before   anyone 
spoke,  and  as  there  was  to  be  only  one  interpreter 
for  the  "two  or  three"  speakers  (ver  28),  any  in- 
terpreter  must   have   been    competent   to    explain 
atni    tongue.     But    different    interpreters    did    not 
always  agree  (ver  20),  whence  the  limitation  to  one. 
These  characteristics  of  an  interpreter  make  it 
clear  that  "speaking  in  a  tongue"  at  Corinth  was 
not  normally  felt   to  be  speaking  in  a 
2    Foreign     foreign    language.     In    ver    10   FA     is 
Languages     misleading  with  "there  are,  it  may  be. 
Barred  Out   so  many  kinds  of  voices  in  the  world, 

which  suggests  that  St.  Paul  is  refer- 
ring   directly    to    the   tongues.     But,   toxinita   there 
should  be  rendered  "very  many,"  "ever  so  many, 
and  the  verse  is  as  purely  illustrative  as  is  ver  7. 
Hence   foreign    languages    are    to    be   barred   out. 
(Still,  this  need  not  mean  that  foreign  phrases  may 
not  occasionally  have  been  employed  by  the  speak- 
ers, or  that  at  times  individuals  may  not  have  made 
elaborate  use  of  foreign  languages.     But  such  cases 
were   not   normative   at   Corinth.)     Consequently, 
if  "tongues"  means  "languages,"  entirely  new  lan- 
guages must  be  thought  of.     Such  might  have  been 
of  many  kinds  (12  2S),  have  been  regarded  as  a  fit 
creation  for  the  conveyance  of  new  truths,  and  may 
even  at  times  have  been   thought  to  be  celestial 
languages— the    "tongues   of    angels      (13  1).     On 
the  other  hand,  the  word  for  "tongue     (gltesa)  is 
of  fairly  common  use  in  Or  to  designate  obsolete 
or   incomprehensible   words,    and,    specifically,    lor 
the  obscure  phrases  uttered  by  an  oracle.      1  Ins  use 
is  closely  parallel  to  the  use  in  Corinth  and  may  he- 
its  source,  although  then  it  would  be  more  natural 
if  the  "ten  thousand  words  in  a  tongue     of  14  1' 
had  read  "ten  thousand  glossal:'     In  no  case,  how- 
ever can  "tongue"  mean  simply  the  physical  organ, 
for  14  18.19  speaks  of  articulated  words  and  uses 
the  pi.  "tongues"  for  a  single  speaker  (cf  vs  5.6). 

A  complete  explanation  of  the  tongues  is  given 

by  the  phenomena  of  ecstatic  utterances,  esp.  when 

taken  in  connection  with  the  history 

3    A  State     of  NT  times.     In  ecstasy  the  soul  feels 

of  Ecstasy      itself  so  suffused  with  the  Divine  that 

the  man   is  drawn  above  all  natural 

modes  of  perception   (the  understanding  becomes 

"unfruitful"),  and  the  religious  nature  alone  is  felt 

to  be  active.     Utterances  at  such  times  naturally 


become  altogether  abnormal.  If  the  words  remain 
coherent,  the  speaker  may  profess  to  be  uttering 
revelations,  or  to  be  the  mere  organ  of  the  Divine 
voice.  Very  frequently,  however,  what  is  said  is 
quite  incomprehensible,  although  the  speaker  seems 
to  be  endeavoring  to  convey  something.  In  a  still 
more  extreme  case  the  voice  will  be  inarticulate, 
ntt (Ting  only  groans  or  outcries.  At  the  termi- 
nation of  the  experience  the  subject  is  generally 
unconscious  of  all  that  has  transpired. 

For  the  state,  cf  TMiilo.  Q">'s  rerum.  rlirin..  li-liii. 249-66: 
"The  best  ecstasy]  of  all  is  a  Divinely  infused  rapture 
and  '  mania,'  to  Which  the  race  of  the  prophets  is  sub- 
ject The  wise  man  is  a  sounding  instrument 
of  God's  voice,  being  struck  and  played  upon  in- 
visibly by  -Him As  long  as  our  mind  stil  shines 

[is  active!  ....  we.  are  not  possessed , (by  Goal  .  .  .  . 
but  .  when  the  Divine  light  shines,  the  human 

light    sets The    prophet  .   ...  is    passive;,    ami 

another  [Cod]  makes  use  of  his  vocal  organs.  it, 
further,  the  descriptions  of  Celsus  (Origen.  Contra  t  els., 
vii  '.»  who  describes  the  Christian  'prophets  of  his  day 
as 'preaching  as  if  God  or  Christ -were  speaking  through 
them  closing  their  words  with  '"stranire,  fanatical,  and 
quite'  unintelligible  words,  of  which  no  rational  person 
can  fmd  the  meaning."  The  Or  papyri  furnish  us  with 
an  abundance  of  magical  formulae  couched  in  unintelli- 
gible terms  (e.g.  J'ap.  Land.,  l-'l,  i'lao,  eloai,  mar- 
mar  achad  a,  menepho,  mermai,  ieor,  aeio,  erephie,  phere- 
vhio,"  etc),  which  are  not  infrequently  connected  \\_itli 
an  ecstatic  state  (e.g.  Reit/enstein,  y\»mam/rrx  o.5-;>S). 
Interpretation  of  the  utterances  in  such  a  state  would 
always  be  difficult  and  diversities  of  interpretation 
would  be  unavoidable.  Still,  with  a  fixed  content,  such 
as  the  Christian  religion  gave,  and  with  the  aid  of  ges- 
tures etc  men  who  felt  that  they  had  an  understanding 
of  such  conditions  could  undertake  to  explain  them  to  the 
congregMion.  It  is  to  be  noted,  however,  that  St.  J  aul 
apparently  docs  not  feel  that  the  gift  of  interpretation 
is  much  to  be  relied  on,  for  otherwise  he  would  have 
appraised  the  utility  of  tongues  more  highly  than  he  does. 
But  the  popularity  of  tongues  in  Corinth  is  easily  under- 
stood The  speaker  was  felt  to  be  taken  into  the  closest 
of  unions  with  God  and  hence  to  bo  an  especial  object  of 
God's  favor.  Indeed,  the  occurrence  of  the  phenomenon 
in  a  neo-convert  was  irrefragable  proof  that  the  conver- 
sion was  approved  by  Cod  (Acts  10  44-48;  11  l.>; 
19  c,).  So  in  Mk  16  17  the  gift  is  treated  as  an  excep- 
tional and  miraculous  Divine  blessing  (in  this  verse 
"new"  is  tcxtually  uncertain,  and  the  meaning  or  the 
word  if  read,  is  uncertain  also).  Moreover,  for  the  more 
selfish,  the  gift  was  very  showy  (I  Cor  13  1  suggests 
that  it  was  vociferous),  and  its  possession  gratified  any 
desire  for  personal  prominence. 

The  account  in  A'-ts  2  differs  from  that  of  1  Cor  14 
in  making  the  tongues  foreign  languages,  although 

the  ability  to  use  such  languages  is 
4.  The  Ac-  not  said  to  have  become  a  permanent 
count  in  apostolic  endowment.  (Nor  is  it  said 
Acts  2  that  the  speech  of  Acts  2  14-36  was 

delivered  in  more  than  one  language.) 
When  the  descent  of  the  Spirit  occurred,  those  who 
were  assembled  together  were  seized  with  ecstasy 
and  uttered  praises  to  (!od.  A  crowd  gathered  and 
various  persons  recognized  words  and  phrases  in 
their  own  tongues;  nothing  more  than  this  is  said. 
That  the  occasion  was  one  where  a  miracle  would 
have  had  unusual  evidential  value  is  evident,  and 
those  who  see  a  pure  miracle  in  the  account  have 
ample  justification  for  their  position.  But  no  more 
than  a  providential  control  of  natural  forces  need 
be  postulated,  for  similar  phenomena  are  abun- 
dantly evidenced  in  the  history  of  religious  expe- 
rience. At  times  of  intense  emotional  stress  the 
memory  acquires  abnormal  power,  and  persons  may 
repeat  words  and  even  long  passages  in  a  foreign 
language,  although  they  may  have  heard  them  only 
once.  Now  the  situation  at  Jems  at  the  time  of  the 
Feast  gave  exactly  the  conditions  needed,  for  then 
there  were  gathered  pilgrims  from  all  countries, 
who  recited  in  public  liturgical  passages  (esp.  the 
Mi'moni'h  '  Esrch)  in  their  own  languages.  These;, 
in  part,  the  apostles  and  the  "brethren"  simply 
reproduced.  Incomprehensible  words  and  phrases 
may  well  have  been  included  also  (Acts  2  13),  but 
for  the  dignity  of  the  apostles  and  for  the  impor- 
tance of  Pentecost  St.  Ltike  naturally  cared  to  em- 


2097 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tongues,  Gift  of 
Tongues  of  Fire 


phasize  only  (lie  more  unusual  .side  and  that  with 
the  greatest  evidential  value.  It  is  urged,  to  be 
sure,  that  this  interpretation  contradicts  the  ac- 
count in  1  Cor  14.  But  it  does  so  only  on  the 
assumption  that  the  tongues  were  always  uniform 
in  their  manifestation  and  appraisement  every- 
where— and  the  statement  of  this  assumption  is  its 
own  refutation.  If  the  modern  history  of  ecstatic 
utterances  has  any  hearing  on  the  Apostolic,  age, 
the  speaking  in  foreign  languages  could  not,  have 
been  limited  only  to  Pentecost.  (That,  however,  it 
was  as  common  as  the  speaking  in  new  "languages" 
would  be  altogether  unlikely.)  But  both  varieties  Si . 
Luke  may  well  have  known  in  his  own  experience. 

St.  Paul's  treatment  of  the  tongues  in  1  Cor  12- 
14  is  a  classic:1 1  passage  for  the  evaluation  of  reli- 
gious emotionalism.  Tongues  are  a 
5.  Religious  Divine  gift,  the  exercise  is  not  to  be 
Emotion-  forbidden  (14  39),  and  Si.  Paul  him- 
alism  self  is  grateful  that  he  has  the  gift  in 

an  unevmmon  degree  (14  IS).  In- 
deed, to  those  who  treat  them  simply  with  scorn 
they  become1  a  "sign"  that  hardening  is  taking 
place  (14  21-23).  Yet  a  love  of  them  because-  they 
an;  showy  is  simply  childish  (14  20;  13  11),  and 
the  possessor  of  the  gift  is  not  to  think  that  he  has 
the  only  thing  worth  obtaining  (ch  12).  The  only 
gift  that  is  utterly  indispensable  is  love  (ch  13),  and 
without  it  tongues  are  mere  noise  (13  1).  The 
public  evidential  value  of  tongues,  on  which  per- 
haps the  Corinthians  were  inclined  to  lay  stress, 
St.  Paul  rales  very  low  (14  21-23;.  Indeed,  when 
exercised  in  public  they  tend  to  promote  only  the 
self-glorification  of  the  speaker  (14  4),  and  so  are 
forbidden  when  there  is  not  an  interpreter,  and 
they  are  limited  for  public  use  at  all  times  (14  27. 
2S).  But  the  ideal  place  for  their  exercise  is  in 
private:  "Let  him  speak  to  himself,  and  to  God" 
(14  2S).  The  applicability  of  all  this  to  modern 
conditions  needs  no  commentary.  Ultra-emotion- 
alistic  outbreaks  still  cause  the  formation  of  eccen- 
tric; sects  among  us,  and  every  evangelist  knows 
well-meaning  but  slightly  weak  individuals  who 
make  themselves  a  nuisance.  On  the  other  hand, 
a  purely  intellectual  and  ethical  religion  is  rather 
a  dreary  thing.  A  man  who  has  never  allowed  his 
religious  emotions  to  carry  him  away  may  well  be 
in  a  high  state  of  grace — but  he  has  missed  some- 
thing, and  something  of  very  great  value.  See  also 
SPIRITUAL  GIFTS;  TONGUES  OF  FIRE. 

LITERATURE. — Plumptre  in  DB  is  still  useful.  Wright, 
Some  AT  Prohlxtnx  (1S9X).  and  Walker,  The  Gift  of 
Tongues  and  Other  Essay*  (1906),  have  collections  of  mate- 
rial. Of  the  comras.  on  1  Cor  those  of  Heinrici  (latest  eel 
1S9G),  Lietzmann  (1907)  and  .1.  Weiss  (1910)  are  much 
the  best,  fur  surpassing  Robertson  and  Plummer  in  ICC 
(191 1).  For  the  Gr  material,  see  exo-rao-t?  in  the  index 
of  Rhode's  Psyche.  Gunkel,  Die  Wirkunoen  des  heiliiien 
Geixtes  (1888,  2d  reprint  in  1909),  was  epoch-making. 
For  the  later  period,  see  Weinel,  Die  Wirkunneti  <•/»•.•.• 
Grixtcs  und  <lrr  Crixti-r  (1S99)  ;  Lake,  The  Earlier  Epistles 
of  Si.  Paul  (London,  1911) ;  and  see  Inge  in  The  Quarterly 
Review  (London,  1914). 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

TONGUES,  INTERPRETATION,  in-tur-prf1- 
ta'shun,  OF.  See  SPIRITUAL  GIFTS;  TONGUES, 
GIFT  OF. 

TONGUES  OF  FIRE  ftXa>o-o-ai  cbo-el  -irvpos, 
gl&ssai  hose'i  pitros):  The  reference  in  this  topic  is 
to  the  marvelous  gift  of  the  Holy  Spirit  on  the  Day 
of  Pentecost  (Acts  2  1-13).  After  His  resur- 
rection the  Lord  bade  His  disciples  to  tarry  in  Jerus 
until  He  should  fulfil  to  them  the  promise  of  the 
Father,  and  until  they  should  be  clothed  with 
power  from  on  high  (Lk  24  49).  Acts  1  8  re- 
peats the  same  gracious  promise  with  additional 
Particulars:  "But  ye  shall  receive  power,  when  the 
Iply  Spirit  is  come  upon  you:  and  ye  shall  be  my 
witnesses  both  in  Jerus,  and  in  all  Judaea  and 


Samaria,  and  unto  the  ut  tennost  part  of  the  earth." 

These;  were;  probably  the-  last  words  Our  Lord  spoke 

on  earth  before  He  ascended  to  the  right  hand  of  God. 

When  the;  Day  e>f  Pentevost  was  fully  come  and 

the  disciples,    no   eloubl    by   previous  arrange-rnent 

and    with   one   ae-cord,    wen-   gathered 

1.  Super-       teige-ther  in  one;  place',  the'  pnmiise  was 
natural  gloriously  fulfilled.     On  that,  day,  the 
Manifesta-     ~>()th   after   the:   Passover,    and   so   the; 
tions                first,  day  of  the  week,  the;  Lord's  day, 

the;  Spirit  of  God  ele-se-e'iideel  upon 
them  in  marvelous  ce>piousness  and  powe-r.  The> 
gift  ejf  the  Spirit  was  accompanied  by  exlraoreli- 
nary  manifestations  or  phenomena.  These  we're 
three:  and  we're  supernatural.  His  coming  first, 
appealed  to  the  car.  The;  elisriples  hevml  a  "soiinel 
from  he-aven,"  whie-h  rushed  with  mighty  force-  into 
the  house  and  fille>el  it  even  as  the  storm  rushes,  but 
the're;  was  no  wind.  It  was  the  sound  that  filled 
the  hemse,  ne>t  a  winel.  It  was  an  invisible  cause 
prenlue-ing  audible  effects.  Next,  the  <  ye.  was  ar- 
rest eel  by  the  appearance  of  tongues  e>f  fire  which 
rest  eel  on  each  of  the  gathered  company.  Our  AV 
"clove^n  tongues"  is  some\vhat  misleading,  for  it,  is 
likel  ,- 1  o  suggest  that  each  fire-like  t  ongue  was  e'le>ve>n 
or  forked,  as  one  sometimes  sees  in  the  picture's 
representing  the  seem;.  But  this  is  m>t  at  all  the 
meaning  of  Luke's  expression;  rathe'r,  tongue's 
parting  asunder,  tongues  distributeel  among  them, 
eae'h  disciple  sharing  in  the  gift  equally  with  the 
others.  "Like  as  of  fire1,"  or,  more;  exactly,  "un 
if  of  fire,"  indicates  the;  appearance  of  the  tongues, 
not  that  the\y  we're  ae-tually  aflame1,  but  that  they 
prefigured  the  marvelous  gift  with  which  the  dis- 
ciple'.s  we're  ne>w  endowed. 

Finally,  there  was  the;  impartatiem  to  them  of  a 
new  strange  power  to  speak  in  language's  they  hael 
ne'ver  learnevl.  It  was  because  they  were  fillenl 
with  the  Holy  Spirit  that  this  extraordinary  gift 
was  exhibited  by  them.  Not  only  elid  the  Spirit 
enable  them  thus  to  speak,  but  even  the  utterance 
of  words  dcpenelenl  on  His  Divine-  influence — they 
spake  "as  the  Spirit  gave  them  utterance." 

Many  attempts  have  be>e>n  made  by  writers  on  the 
Acts  to  explain  the  phenomenon  of  Pentecost  se>  as  to 
exclude  in  whole:  or  in  part  the:  supernatural  ele'inent 
which  Luke  unquestionably  recognizes.  Some  try  te> 
account  for  the  gift  of  tongues  by  .saying  that  it  was  a 
new  style  of  speaking,  or  new  forms  of  expression,  or  new 
and  elevated  thoughts,  but  this  is  both  unnatural  and 
wholly  inconsistent  with  the:  narrative  where  a  real 
difference  of  language  is  implied.  Others  imagine:  that 
the  miracle  was  wrought  upon  the  ears  of  the  hearers, 
each  of  whom  supposes!  what  he  heard  to  be  uttered  in 
his  mother-tongue.  But  this  view  contradicts  the  dis- 
tinct statement  in  Acts  2  4:  they  "began  to  speak  with 
other  tongues,"  i.e.  the  disciples  did.  It  contradicts 
what  the  multitude  affirmed,  viz.  "How  hear  we,  every 
man  in  our  own  language,  wherein  we  were  born  ?"  (ver  8). 
Furthermore,  the  view  contains  an  element  of  falsehood, 
for  in.  this  case  the  miracle  was  wrought  to  make  men 
believe  what  was  not  actually  the  fact.  The  only  reason- 
able explanation  of  the  phenomena  is  that  which  the 
record  bears  on  its  face,  and  which  Luke  obviously  meant 
his  readers  to  believe,  viz.  that  the  Holy  Spirit  enabled 
the  disciples  te)  speak  in  the:  various  languages  repre- 
sented by  the  multitude  gathered  together  at  the  time. 

The  scenes  witnessed  at  Pentecost  were  somewhat 

analogous  to  the  events  which  occurred  at  the  giving 

of  the  Law  at  Sinai,  but  the  contrast 

2.  Sinai          between    them    is    much    more    pro- 
and  Pente-    nounced.     We  are  told  in  He  12  18. 
cost  19   that   "tempest,"    "fire,"   and   "the 

voice  of  worels"  atteneleel  the  inaugu- 
ration of  the  Mosaic  dispensation.  Something 
similar  was  witnessed  at  Pentecost.  But  the  dif- 
ferences between  the  two  are  very  marked.  At 
Sinai  there  were  also  the  blackness  and  darkness,  the 
quaking  earth,  the  thunderings  and  lightnings,  the 
voice  of  the  trumpet  exceeding  loud,  the  terror  of  the 
people,  and  the  fear  of  Moses  (Ex  19  Iti-lS;  He  12 
18.19).  Nothing  of  this  was  seen  at  Pentecost. 


Tongues  of  Fire 
Tortoise 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


2998 


The  phenomena  characterize  the  two  dispensations. 
That  of  Sinai  was  legal.  Its  substance  was:  Do  and 
live;  disobey  and  die.  1-iaw  knows  no  mercy,  extends 
no  grace.  Exact  justice  is  its  rule,  perfect  righteousness 
its  requirement,  and  death  its  penalty.  Xo  wonder  ter- 
rible things  accompanied  its  proclamation,  and  Moses 
trembled  with  fear.  No  wonder  it  was  called  "a  fiery 
law"  (l)t  33  2). 

With  the  advent  of  the  Spirit  came  perfect  grace, 
Divine  power  and  complete  pardon  for  the_  worst 

of  men.  At  Sinai  God  spoke  in  one 
3.  Qualities  language.  At  Pentecost  the  Spirit 
Imparted  by  through  the  disciples  spoke  in  many 
the  Spirit  tongues,  (15  in  all  are  mentioned  in 

Acts  2).  The  Law  was  for  one  people 
alone;  the  gospel  is  for  the  whole  race.  The  sound 
that  accompanied  the  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  filled 
all  the  house  and  all  the  disciples  likewise — token 
and  pledge  of  the  copiousness,  the  fulness  of  the 
gift.  The  tongues  of  flame  signified  the  power  of 
speech,  boldness  of  utterance,  and  persuasiveness 
which  from  henceforth  were  to  mark  the  testimony 
of  t  he  disciples. 

The  marvelous  capabilities  which  the  witnesses  dis- 
play after  Pentecost  tire  most  noteworthy.  It  is  common 
to  admire  their  courage  and  zeal,  to  contrast'  their  fear- 
lessness in  the  presence  of  enemies  and  danger  with  their 
former  timidity  and  cowardice.  It  is  perhaps  not  so 
common  to  recognize  in  them  the  (nudities  that  lie  at 
the  foundation  of  all  effective  work,  that  which  gives  to 
wit  ness -bearing  for  Christ  its  real  energy  and  potency. 
These  qualities  are  such  as:  knowledge  and  wisdom, 
zeal  and  prudence,  confidence  and  devotion,  boldness 
and  love,  skill  and  tact.  These  and  the  like  gifts 
appear  in  their  discourses,  in  their  behavior  when  diffi- 
culties arise  and  dangers  impend,  and  in  their  conduct 
before  the  angry  rulers.  It  is  altogether  remarkable 
with  what  skill  and  tact  they  defend  themselves  before 
the  Sanhedrin,  and  with  what  effectiveness  they  preach 
the  gospel  of  the  grace  of  C.od  to  the  multitude,  often 
a  scolllng  and  hostile  multitude.  In  Peter's  address  on 
the  Day  of  Pentecost  there  are  the  marks  of  the  highest 
art,  the  most  skilful  logic,  and  the  most  persuasive 
argument.  Professor  Stifler  well  says  of  it:  "It  is  with- 
out a  peer  among  the  products  of  uninspired  men.  And 
yet  it  is  the  work  of  a  Galilean  fisherman,  without  culture 
or  training,  and  his  maiden  effort."  The  like  distin- 
guished traits  are  found  in  Peter's  address  recorded  in  Acts 

3,  in  that  to  Cornelius  and  his  friends,  and  in  his  defence 
when  arraigned  by  t  lie  strict  believers  at  .Jems  for  having 
gone  into  the  company  of  men  uncircumcised  and  having 
eaten  with  them.      Xo  less  must  be  said  of  the  equally 
wonderful  reply  of  Stephen  to  the  charge  brought  against 
him  as  recorded  in  Acts  7-      It  is  quite  true  that  Stephen 
did  not  share  in  the  (-(fusion  of  the  Spirit  on  the  Day  of 
Pentecost,  so  far  as  we  know,  but  he  did  share  in  the  gift 
and  power  of  the  Spirit  soon  after,  for  we  are  told  that 
he  was  full  of  faith  and  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  he  was 
also  full  of  grace  and  power.      Accordingly,  it  should  be 
no  surprise  to  read,  as  the  effect  of  his  discourse,  that  tho 
high  priest  and  all  the  rest  who  heard  him  "were  cut  to 
the  heart,  and  they  gnashed  on  him  with  their  teeth" 
(ver  54).     Stephen  spoke  with  a  tongue  of  fire. 

In  the  management  of  the  serious  complaint  made  by 
the  Grecian  Jews  against  the  Hebrews  as  to  the  neglect 
of  their  widows  in  the  daily  ministration  (Acts  6  1),  and 
in  their  conduct  and  defence  when  brought  before  the 
council,  as  they  were  once  and  again  (chs  4,  5,  12'. 
they  exhibited  a  wisdom  and  prudence  far  enough  re- 
moved from  shrewdness  and  cunning.  The  qualities 
they  possessed  and  displayed  are  uncommon,  are  more 
than  human,  they  are  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Spirit  with 
whom  they  were  baptized  on  Pentecost.  So  the  Lord 
Jesus  had  promised  (Mk  13  11;  Jn  16  13;  Acts  1  8). 

The  tongues  of  fire  which  we  have  been  eon- 

sidering  appear  to  have  differed  in   one  important 

aspect  from  the  like  gift  bestowed  on 

4.  Distin-      the    Corinthians    (1  Cor  12,  14).     At 
guished          Pentecost   the  disciples  spoke  in   the 
from  1  Cor    languages  of  the  various  persons  who 
12,  14  heard  them;    there  needed  to   be  no 

interpreter,  as  was  provided  for  at 
Corinth.  Paul  distinctly  orders  that  if  there  be  no 
one  to  explain  or  interpret  the  ecstatic,  utterance 
of  a  speaker,  he  shall  keep  silent  (1  Cor  14  28). 
At  Pentecost  many  spoke  at  the  same  time,  for  the 
Spirit  had  perfect  control  of  the  entire  company 
and  used  each  as  it  pleased  Him.  At  Corinth  Paul 
directed  that  not  more  than  two  or  at  most  three 
should  speak  in  a  tongue,  and  that  by  course  (one 


at  a  time).  At  Pentecost  each  one  of  the  lo  na- 
tionalities there  represented  by  the  crowd  heard  in 
his  own  tongue  wherein  he  was  born  the  wonderful 
works  of  God.  At  Corinth  no  one  understood  the 
tongue,  not  even  the  speaker  himself,  for  it  seems 
to  have  been  a  rhapsody,  an  uncontrolled  ecstatic 
outburst,  and  in  case  there  was  no  one  to  interpret 
or  explain  it,  the  speaker  was  to  hold  his  peace  and 
speak  to  himself  and  to  God,  i.e.  he  must  not  dis- 
turb the  worship  by  giving  voice  to  his  ecstasy  unless 
the  whole1  assembly  should  be  edified  thereby.  Paid 
sets  prophecy,  or  preaching  the  word  of  God,  far 
above  this  gift  of  tongues. 

It  may  not  be  out  of  place  here  to  say  that  the  so- 
called  "gift  of  tongues,"  so  loudly  proclaimed  by  certain 
excitable  persons  in  our  day,  has  nothing  in  common  with 
the  mighty  action  of  the  Spirit  of  God  on  the  day  of 
Pentecost,  and  hardly  anything  with  that  which  the 
Corinthian  Christians'  enjoyed,  and  which  Paul  regu- 
lated with  a  master-hand.  See  TONGUES,  GIFT  OF. 

LiTKRATnu-;. — Stifler,  Intro  to  thn  Hunk  of  Art*; 
Alexander,  dimm.  on  the  Acts;  Kuyper,  Work  of  the 
lluly  Spirit;  Moorehead,  Outline  Studicx  in  Arts— E ph. 
\\"M.  G.  MoOKEHKAD 

TOOLS,  toolz:  In  the  Bible,  references  to  the 
handicrafts  are  almost  entirely  incidental,  and  not 
many  tools  are  named.  The  following  art.  aims  to 
give  a  list  of  those  mentioned,  together  with  those 
that  must  have  existed  also.  Eor  detailed  descrip- 
tion and  the  II eb  and  Gr  terms  employed,  see  the 
separate  art  ides. 

(1)  The  percussion  tool  was  the  hammer,  used 
for  splitting  or  trimming  stone,  beating  metals,  and 
in  wood-carving,  as  well  as  for  driving  nails,  tent 
pins,   etc.     Several  words  are  tr'1   "hammer,"   but 
the  distinction  between  them  is  very  vague  and  in 
some  cases  the  propriety  of  the  tr  is  dubious.     Cer- 
tainly no  such  distinction  is  made  as  that  between 
"hammer"  and  "mallet,"  nor  were  separate  names 
given  to  the  different  hammers  used  in  the  various 
crafts    (of,   e.g.,   Jgs  4  21;     1  K  6  7;     Isa  44  12; 
Jer  10  4 — all  for  niakkahfiah).     See  HAMMER. 

(2)  Of  cutting  tools,  the  simplest  was  of  course 
the    knife.     In     Kx  20  2">,     however,     the     knife 
("sword,"  EV   "tool")   appears  as  a  stone-cutter's 
implement    and    is   without    doubt    a   chisel.     But 
the   hatchet   of    Ps  74  6    may    be    a    knife.     See 
HATCHET;  KNIFE. 

For  ax,  again,  various  words  arc  employed  in  a 
way  that  is  quite  obscure  to  us  and  apparently  with 
meanings  that  are  not  fixed.  So  garzcn  in  I)t  20 
1!)  is  certainly  an  ax,  but  in  the  Siloam  Inscription 
(11.  2,4)  it  is  a  pickax  (see  MATTOCK).  The  vari- 
ous words  tr'1  "ax"  (HV  "axe")  must,  also  some- 
where include  the  word  for  adz,  but  the  specific 
term,  if  there  were  any  stich  (wr;'«frtf//j[?]),  is  un- 
known. But  the  ad/  is  a  very  ancient  tool  and  must 
certainly  have  existed  in  Pal.  See  Ax  (AxE),  Ax- 
HEAD. 

The  saw  was  used  both  for  wood  and  for  stone 
(1  K  7  {)),  in  the  latter  case  being  employed  in  con- 
nection with  water  and  sand.  But  sawing  stone 
was  a  very  laborious  process,  and  this  was  one 
reason  why  the  ancients  preferred  stone  in  large 
blocks.  These  were  quarried  by  the  use  of  heavy 
hammers  and  wedges.  Sec1  SAW. 

The  plane  (majf$o*&h)  of  Isa  44  13  should  be  trd 
chisel.  Chisels,  of  course,  are  almost  as  old  as 
humanity,  and  were  used  on  both  wood  and  stone 
and  doubtless  also  on  metals.  In  particular,  with  a 
broad  chisel  and  an  adz  the  surface  of  wood  may  be 
finished  very  smoothly,  and  these  two  implements 
took  the  place  of  the  plane.  For  wood-carving  the 
concave  chisel  (gouge)  may  have  been  invented. 

The  pencil  of  Isa  44  13  is  probably  a  stylus,  for 
engraving  as  well  as  for  marking  out  lines.  For 
engraving  on  .gems  (Ex  28  !),  etc)  particularly 
delicate  instruments  of  this  kind  must  have  been 
used.  See  LINE;  PENCIL. 


2999 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tongues  of  Fire 
Tortoise 


(3)  Among  the  boring  tools,  only  (he  awl  appears 
(Ex  21  0;  Dt  15  17),  an  instrument  primarily 
for  the  use  of  workers  in  leather.  Holes  in  wood  or 
stone  were  made  by  a  drill,  often  worked  with  the 
aid  of  a  drawn  bow,  through  the  .string  of  which 
the  drill  was  passed.  See  AWL. 

(•1)  Blunted  tools  were  of  course  sharpened  on 
stones,  as  everywhere.  In  1  S  13  21  EV  speaks 
of  sharpening  with  a  file,  but  the  text  of  the  verso 
is  hopelessly  corrupt  and  the  tr  mere  guesswork. 
But  files  of  some  sort  (stone?)  must  of  course  have 
been  used  by  metal-workers.  See  FII.K. 

('))  Measuring  tools  were  the  line  and  the  rod 
(see  RKKD),  and  the  latter  must,  also  have  been  used 
as  a  straight-edge.  The  compasses  of  Isa  44  13 
were  for  drawing  circles,  but  doubtless  served 
for  measuring  also.  See  COMPASSES.  Plumb-line 
('ditukk  in  Am  7  7  f  ,  a  symbol  of  the  searching 
moral  investigation  which  would  be  followed  by  a 
precise  and  exact  judgment  ;  cf  mishkdlclh,  ''plum- 
met," 2  K  21  13;  Isa  28  17)  and  plummet  ('chfini 
brdln!,  ''a  stone  of  tin,''  Zee  4  10,  used  by  Zerub- 
babel  in  testing  the  completed  walls)  were  like- 
wise necessities  and  had  existed  from  a  very  early 
period.  Tools  of  some  sort  must  have  been  used 
in  addition  by  builders  in  drawing  plans,  but  their 
nat  ure  is  unknown.  See  Li  \  i:  . 

(G)  The  tools  for  holding  and  handling  work 
(vises,  tongs,  pincers,  etc)  are  never  alluded  to  (AV 
in  Isa  44  12  is  wrong;  see  TONGS).  For  moving 
larger  objects  no  use  was  made  of  cranes,  and  lifting 
was  done  by  the  aid  of  inclined  planes  and  rollers; 
but  blocks  of  stone  weighing  hundreds  of  tons  could 
be  handled  in  this  way. 

The  material  of  the  Ileb  tools  was  either  iron  or 
bronze.  The  former  was  introduced  at  least  by  the 
time  of  David  ('2  S  12  31),  but  the  mention  of  iron 
as  a  material  is  often  made  in  such  a  way  (Am  1  3, 
etc)  as  to  show  that  it  was  not  to  be  taken  for 
granted.  In  fact,  iron  was  hard  to  work  and  ex- 
pensive, and  bronze  probably  persisted  for  a  while 
as  a  cheaper  material.  Stone  tools  would  be  used 
only  by  the  very  poor  or  as  occasional  makeshifts 
or  for  sacred  purposes  (.Josh  5  2). 

For  the  agricultural  tools  see  AGIUCULTI-KK. 
See  also  CAKPKNTKU;  GRAFTS;  POTTKR;  SMITH, 
etc.  BriiTo.N*  SCOTT  EASTON 


TOPARCHY,  to'pur-ki,  top'iir-ki  (ro 
toparchia):  AV  renders  this  Gr  word  by  "govern- 
ment" in  1  Mace  11  28  (AVm  and  11V  "province"). 
It  denotes  a  small  administrative  district  corre- 
sponding to  the  modern  Turkish  \aliich,  admin- 
istered by  a  Mndir.  Three  such  districts  were 
detached  from  the  country  of  Samaria  and  added  to 
Judaea.  Elsewhere  (10  30;  11  34)  the  word  used 
to  describe  them  is  nontax.  Some  idea  of  the  size 
of  these  districts  may  be  gathered  from  the  fact 
that  Judaea  was  divided  into  ten  (Pliny  v.14)  or 
eleven  (BJ,  III,  iii,  5)  toparchies. 

TOPAZ,  to'paz.      See  STOXKS,  PRKCIOUS. 


TOPHEL,  td'fel  psft,  tophel;  To<j>o\,  Tophol): 
This  name  is  found  in  a  passage  with  many  difficul- 
ties (Dt  1  1).  The  verse  ostensibly  makes  clearer 
the  position  occupied  by  the  cam])  of  Israel  where 
Moses  addressed  the  people,  by  reference  to  certain 
other  places  which  might  be  presumed  to  be  better 
known.  Not  one  of  them,  however,  has  been  .sat- 
isfactorily identified.  Some  think  Tophel  may  be 
represented  by  the  modern  et-Tafeleh,  15  miles  S.E. 
of  the  Dead  Sea,  on  the  caravan  road  from  Petra 
to  Kerak.  Apart  from  the  question  of  position,  the 
change  of  i  to  t  is  not  easily  explained.  ^  Meantime 
we  oust  suspend  judgment,  W.  EWINO 


TOPHETH,  to'feth  (P.EP.n  ,  hn-lnphrth,  etymolouy 
uncertain;  the  most  probable  is  its  connection  with 
a  root  meaning  "burning"  —  the  "place  of  burning"; 
AV  Tophet,  except  in  2  K  23  10):  The  references 
are  to  such  a  place:  "They  have  built  the  high  places 
of  Tophet  h,  which  is  in  the  valley  of  the  son  of 
Hinnom,  to  burn  their  sons  and  their  daughters  in 
the  fire"  (Jer  7  31).  On  account  of  this  abomi- 
nation Tophet  h  and  the  Valley  of  Hinnom  should 
be  called  "The  valley  of  Slaughter:  for  they  shall 
bury  in  Topheth,  till  there  be  no  place  to  bury," 
RVm  "because  \  here  shall  be  no  place  else"  (ver  32); 
see  also  Jer  19  0.12.13.11.  Josiah  is  said  to  have 
"defiled  Topheth"  as  part  of  his  great  religious 
reforms  (2  K  23  10;.  The  site  of  this  shameful 
place  would  seem  to  have  been  either  at  the  lower 
end  of  the  VAI.I.F.Y  OF  Hi.  \\o.\i  (q.v.),  near  where 
Akeldama  is  now  pointed  out  ,  or  in  t  he  open  ground 
where  this  valley  joins  the  Kidron. 

K.  YV.  G.   MASTKRMAN 

TORAH,  to'ra.     See  LAW  IN  TIII;  OT;    RKVKI.A- 

TION. 

TORCH,  torch  (T1?*  ,  1<ippidh;  \a(Airds,  linn- 
prfs;  in  AV  this  word  occurs  only  1  t  [Nah  2  3.1 
(Heb  4.5);  Zee  12  (>;  Jn  18  3].  In  RV  it  is  found 
10  t  [Gen  15  17;  Jgs  7  1C).  20;  Job  41  19  (Heb 
11);  Ezk  1  13;  Dnl  10  t>;  Nah  2  4  (Heb  5); 
Zee  12  G;  Jn  18  3;  Rev  8  10]):  A  flambeau;  a 
large  portable  light.  See  LAMP;  LANTKRN. 


TORMAH,  tor'ma  ("^"IP  ,  tornulJi,  "fraud"; 
B,  «v  Kpv>4>TJ,  cn,  krupfif,  "in  secret,"  A,  fierd.  Stopuv, 
meld  doron,  "with  gifts"):  This  name  is  given  in 
EVm  as  an  alternative  to  "privily,"  or  "craftily" 
RV  (Jgs  9  31).  There  is  no  knowledge  of  such  a 
place.  The  text  is  corrupt. 

TORMENT,  lor'ment,  PLACE  OF:  A  literal  tr 
in  Lk  16  28  of  TOTTOS  TTJS  fta.ff6.vov,  topox  it's  basdnou. 
See  HELL. 

TORMENTOR,  tor-men'ter:  AV  2  Mace  7  2<) 
for  S^tos,  dcmios,  "belonging  to  the  people,"  and 
so  "'public  executioner,"  RV  "butcher."  A  term 
of  utter  contempt,  whose  force  is  lost  in  AV.  Also 
Mt  18  31  for  ftaffavLar-q<i,  bnxdnixltx,  "torturer." 
Normally  the  bankrupt  debtor  was  sold  into  slavery. 
But,  apparently,  in  extreme  cases  (where  con- 
cealment of  assets  was  suspected?)  the  defaulter 
was  sent  to  prison  until  restitution  should  be 
made.  Probably  the  imprisonment  itself  was  re- 
garded as  "torment"  (as  it  doubtless  was),  and 
the  "tormentors"  need  mean  nothing  more  than 
jailers.  BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

TORTOISE,  tor'tus,  tor'tis,  tor'tois  (AV)  (2£  , 
gabh,  RV  "great  lizard";  cf  Arab.  \_^o  ,  dabb, 

the  thorny-tailed  lizard):  The  word  ylbh  occurs  as 
the  name  of  an  animal  only  in  Lev  11  29,  being  the 
third  in  the  list  of  unclean  "creeping  things." 

Thp  same  word  is  found  in  Isa  66  20,  tr<i  "litters." 
and  in  Nu  7  •*,  where  'ci/hlfith  qabh  is  tH  "covered 
wagons."  Gesenius  derives  the  word,  in  all  senses, 
from  V  fabfiabh,  "to  move  gently,"  "to  flow";  cf  Arab. 
dahba,  "to  flow."  The  Arab,  noun  dabb  is  Uromnxtijc 
spinipes,  the  Arabian  thorny-tailed  lizard.  This  lizard 
is  about  18  in.  long.  its  relatively  smooth  body  beiiif; 
terminated  with  a  great  tail  armed  with  rings  of  spiny 
scales.  The  Arabs  have  a  familiar  proverb,  'n'ka/l  tnin 
dhanab  ud-d<ibb,  "knottier  tlum  the  tail  of  the  dnbb." 
LXX  has"  for  fiihh  in  Lev  11  1M)  6  *po/<oSeiAo;  6  ^-epo-aio?, 

ho  krtikoilcilii*  tn>  rlu-rxtriuK.  the  Kng.  CQuivalent  of  which, 
"land-crocodile,"  is  used  by  KV  for  the  fifth  in  the  list 
of  unclean  "creeping  things."  /;uah,  AV  "chameleon." 

The  writer  does  not  know  what  can  have  led  the 
translators  of  AV  to  use  here  the  word  "tortoise." 
Assuming  that  the  thorny-tailed  lizard  is  meant, 


Totemism 
Trachonitis 


THE  I XTKR NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3000 


the  "great   lizard''  of  RV  may  be  considered  to  be 
a  fair  i  ranslation.     See  LIZAHU. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

TOTEMISM,  to'tem-iz'in:  How  far  the  belief 
in  totems  and  lotemistic  relat  ionshi|)s  existed  in 
early  Israel  cannot  be  discussed  at  length  here. 
Evidence  of  the  belief  in  deified  animal  ancestors 
is  supposed  by  some  writers  to  be  found  in  the  tribal 
names  Leah  ("wild  cow"?),  Rachel  ("ewe"), 
Simeon  (synonymous  with  the  Arab.  siin*n,  which 
denotes  a  cross  between  a  wolf  and  a  hyena),  llamor 
("ass"),  Caleb  ("dog"),  Zibiah  ("gazelle"),  etc.  But 
these  names  in  themselves  "do  not  prove  a  totem 
stage  in  the  development  of  Israel"  (///'A",  114); 
philologically,  the  view  has  a  shaky  foundation 
(see,  e.g.  art".  "Leah"  in  1-vol  HDH). 

Again,  it  is  true  that,  as  a  rule,  in  totemic  com- 
munities the  individual  may  not  kill  or  eat  the 
name-giving  object  of  his  kin,  these,  animals  being 
regarded  as  sacred  in  totem  worship  and  therefore 
"unclean"  (taboo)  as  food.  But  the  attempt  to 
connect  such  personal  names  as  Shaphau  ("rock- 
badger"),  Achbor  ("mouse1"),  Huldah  ("weasel")  — 
all  from  the;  time  of  .Josiah  (2  K  22  li.  12.14;  ef 
Deborah  ["bee"],  C.aal  ["beetle"'.'].  Tola  ["crimson 
worm,"  "cochineal"],  Nahash  ["serpent"])  —with 
the  list  of  unclean  animals  in  Lev  11  (see  vs  r>m.'J9i 
and  Dt  14  is  beset  with  difficulties  (cf,  however, 
Isa  66  17;  V//.k  8  10  f),  since  all  the  names  can- 
not possibly  be  explained  on  this  ground.  See  also 
SACRIFICI;  i\  TIIH  OT,  II,  2,  (4);  VI,  1 . 

Robertson  Smith  (followed  by  Stade  and  Ben- 
zinger)  strongly  advocated  the  view  "that  clear 
traces  of  totemism  can  be1  found  in  earlv  Israel" 
(see  IIDB,  III,  100 1.  ('-.  B.  Cray  also  seems  in- 
clined to  favor  the  view  that  some  of  these  names 
may  be  "indirectly  derivative1  from  a  totem  stage  of 
society"  (IIDB,  HI,  4X:U>,  while  at  the  same  time 
he  recognizes  that  "the  only  question  is  whether 
other  explanations  are  not  equally  satisfactory" 
(III'X,  1  Oo). 

Other  writers,  such  as  \Yellhauscn,  Noldeke 
(ZI)M(t,  l.")7f,  issti),  Marti  (C/r.sr//.  <l<r  inraelit. 
I{,lii,ion,  4th  ed,  24),  Addis  (II, h  Rcl,  33f),  have 
opposed  or  abandoned  the  theory  as  applied  to 
Israel. 

"  I'pon  the  whole  we  must  e-onelude1  once  mon1  that, 
while  it.  is  evrtuinly  pe>ssible  that  Totciiiism  once1  pre- 
vailed in  Israel,  Its  prevalence  cannot  be  proved;  anel, 
above  all,  we  must  hold  that  the  religion  of  Israel  as  it 
presents  itself  in  the  <  >T  has  not  retained  the  very  slight- 
est recollection  of  such  a  state1  of  things"  (Kautzsch, 
J1DH,  extra  vol,  (114  f ;  e-f  p.  023). 

The  theory  is  alse>  opposeel  by  Jets.  Ja.eobs  (art. 
"  Vre1  theTe  Totem-Clans  in  the  Old  Testament'.'" 
in  Archncnl.  Review,  III  [1SXO],  no.  3,  lir>fT>;  V. 
V  Zapletal,  Dcr  Totciuixniiix  it.  die  Rilnjinn  I  until*: 
and  S.  A.  Cook,  in  JQIt,  XIV,  no.  55. 

The  evielenre  on  either  siele1  is  inconclusive,  but 
the  weight  of  authority  is  e>ppe>sed  te>  the  view  that 
totemism  ever  existed  in  Israel.  What  is  certain 
is  that  totemism  was  never  a  potent  factor,  either 
in  I  he>  early  religion  of  Israe1!  as  an  organized  people, 
or  in  any  e>f  the  dominant  cults  of  the  historical 
period  as  a  whole1  (se'e  arts.  "Family"  in  IIDB,  I, 
850  [Bennett];  "Sacrifice,"  IIDB,  IV,  331  [Pater- 
son],  and  DEFILEMENT  [Crannell],  IMAGES,  3,  6 
[Cobern],  and  ISRAEL,  RELIGION  OF,  II,  1,  (4) 
[Orelli],  in  this  Encyclopaedia). 

IJITEHATUUE. — In  adelition  to  tho  works  cited  in  the 
text,  see1,  fe>r  the1  thele>ry  e>f  the  prevalence  of  totemism 
in  early  Israe1!,  "VV.  R.  Smith,  Relit/ion  of  the,  Semites 
(2el  exl,'lS94),  Kinship  andMarriagein  Early  Arabia  (1903) ; 
A.  F.  Se-ot,  Offering  and  Sacrifice  (1900);  and  I.  Ben- 
zingeT,  Hcbraische  Arrtitiol.  (1907);  against,  Enc  Brit, 
llth  ed,  XIII,  177,  art.  "Hebrew  Religion"  (White- 
house);  Standard  BD,  782;  Temple  DB,  art.  "  Shaphan." 
For  a  general  account  and  discussion  of  totemism,  see 
Fra/.er,  Totemism  and  Exogamy  (1910)  and  The  Golden 
Bough  (3d  ed,  1907-13);  Westermarck,  History  of  Human 


Marriaue  (1891);  Deans,  Tales  from  tin;  Totems  of  JIidc.ru 
(1S9S);  Lang,  Myth,  H  final.  Religion  (new  ed,  1899),  The 
Secret  of  the  Totem  (1905),  anel  art.  "Totemism"  in  Enc 
lint,  l  ith  e>el.  XXVII,  with  extensive  bibliography;  IfUJi, 
extra  vol,  1  15  ;  and  Cymru,  1892-93,  p.  137  ;  1893-94,  p.  7. 

M.    ().    K  VANS 

TOU,  telVjo  0"F1,  to'  u;  B,  0<Sa,  Tlioa,  A,  Ooov, 
Thooii)'.  King  of  Hamath.  As  an  enemy  of  Hadare- 
Z<T,  after  David's  victory  over  the1  latter,  1m  sent 
David  a  message;  eif  congratulation  (1  Ch  18  9  f). 
In  2  S  8  <)f  spelled  "Toi." 


TOW,  to  (rnJ,  nf*orcth  [Jgs  16  0;  Isa  1  31]): 
The  coarseT  part  eif  flax,  with  she>rt  threaels,  used 
as  an  (¥xample  of  easily  inflammable1  material.  Alse> 
Isa  43  17  AV  fe>r  nP£?£  ,  iiixhlah,  the1  usual  weinl 
for  "flax"  (so  KRV),  heTe1  as  useel  for  a  wie-k  (so  ARV, 
ERVm). 

TOWER,  tem'er.  Sec  FORTIFICATION,  I,  .">; 
CITY,  II,  1. 

TOWER  OF  BABEL.  See-  ASTRONOMY  ;  BAHHI., 
TOWKHOF;  TONGUES,  CONFUSION  e>F. 

TOWER    OF    DAVID    (C'ant   4  4).     See1    JKKI'- 

SALEM. 

TOWER  OF  EDAR  (THE  FLOCK).     Sen1  KDEK. 
TOWER  OF  HANANEEL.     See  HANA.NEL. 

TOWER  OF  IVORY  (}Cn  b"j"5  ,  mitjMnl  ha- 
sln'n):  Occurs  only  in  Cant.  7  4.  C'heyne  we>uld, 
not  unreasonably,  e'lne'tiel  the  text,  anel  roael  the1 
"tower  of  Shenir"  as  a  ]>arall(4  1e>  the1  "tower  e>f 
Lebane)n"  in  t  he  same1  verse1.  If  the  reading  "tower 
e>f  ivory''  is  correct,  the  refenMiev  must  be  to  some; 
piece1  e>f  furniture;  in  the1  adeirnment  of  which  ivory 
was  mue'h  use'd,  and  when  we1  compare;  lhe>  word 
iiiifjlulul.  he-re  with  its  use1  for  a  "pul])it"  in  Xeli  8  4, 
we-  can  think  e»nly  eif  a  reminiscence  e>f  something 
of  the1  nature  of  the  throne  eif  ivetry  made  by 
Se)lomon  (1  K  10  IS).  AN".  M.  CHRISTIE 

TOWER  OF  LEBANON  Cp:23n  b^.'1)?  ,  miijh- 
dalha-lebhanon  [dint  7  4]):  The  designation  "which 
leK)k(>1h  towarel  Damascus"  compt'ls  us  te>  ielejitify 
it  with  some1  petrtiem  of,  eir  something  in,  the  eastern 
range1  of  "Lebanon,  tenvard  the1  sun-rising"  (Josh  13 
f>).  It  would  the1!!  of  nevessity  correspond  to  the 
chie'f  summit,  e>f  Hernion,  e>n  whie-h  there  has  been 
from  ane-ient  time's  alse>  a  tower-like  1emy)le,  and 
from  which  the  view  is  almost  of  boundless  extent, 
Damascus  with  its  pare  lens  anel  groves  being  sur- 
prisingly near  anel  appearing  like  a  beautiful  island 
in  a  wiele  extended  sea.  Se'e  LEBANON. 

\Y.  .M.  CHRISTIE 

TOWER  OF  MEAH,  rmVa.     Sen;  HAMMEAH. 

TOWER  OF  PENUEL.     See  PENIEL. 


TOWER  OF  SHECHEM  (C2Tp  ^  ,  mighdal 
sh'khcm):  Mentioned  only  in  Jgs  9  4()-49.  It, 
se-e'ins  along  with  the  Beth-millo  and  the  Beth-el- 
berith  to  have  e'omprised  the  three  strongest  parts 
of  the  fortification  when  Abimelech  besieged  the 
town.  It  was,  however,  abandoned  by  its  defend- 
ers, who  took  refuge  in  the  Beth-millo,  in  which  they 
were  slain. 

TOWER  OF  SILOAM.     Sec  SILOAM. 
TOWER  OF  SYENE,  sl-e'nel     See  SEVENEH. 

TOWER     OF    THE    FURNACES.    See    FUR- 

NACES, TOWEK  OF. 


3001 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Totemism 
Trachonitis 


TOWN,  toun:  Tins  word  is  used  to  represent  a 
number  of  different  Heb  terms  in  tlie  OT.  (I) 
When  any  explanatory  word  or  attendant  circum- 
stances show  that  a  "city"  was  umvalled,  and  some- 
times in  the  contrary  case  (1  >S  23  7),  the  Heb 
'Ir  is  trd  "town"  by  AV,  and  RV  generally  agrees 
with  it  (Dt  3  5;  1  S  27  5;  Est  9  19).  (2)  Both 
AV  and  RV  translate  hawtcdth  by  "towns"  (Nu 
32  41;  Josh  13  30;  1  K  4  13;  1  Ch  2  23),  while 
hacerlm  and  p'razolh  both  appear  in  AV  as  "towns," 
but  in  RV  as  "villages"  (den  25  10;  Zee  2  4). 
See  HAVVOTH-JAIK.  (3)  Hath,  lit.  "daughter,"  is 
sometimes  found  in  the  pi.  between  the  name  of 
a  city  and  hacerlm,  "villages,"  as  in  Josh  15  45m, 
"Ekron,  with  its  daughters  and  its  villages." 
"Towns"  is  evidently  the  appropriate  tr,  and,  even 
without  hdferlm,  bath  is  rendered  "town"  (RV  Nu 
21  25,  etc)-  The  same  use  of  "daughter"  occurs 
also  in  the  Or  of  1  Mace  5  05  (tluujdter),  AV 
"town,"  RV  "village,"  m  "daughter."  (4)  AV  and 
ERV  gloss  klr,  "wall,"  in  Josh  2  15  by  rendering 
it  "town  wall";  ARV  omits.  (5)  The  Gr  term 
komopolcis  (Mk  1  38),  being  a  combination  of  the 
words  for  "village"  and  "city,"  is  a  clear  attempt 
to  describe  something  between  the  two,  and  is  well 
trd  "town."  (0)  AV  uses  "town"  (Mt  10  11,  etc) 
and  "village"  (Mt  9  35,  etc)  quite  indifferently  for 
kdtnP;  RV  has  "village"  throughout.  For  similar 
changes  of  AV  "town"  cf  2  Mace  8  0  (chord); 
11  5;  12  21  (chorion,  RV  "place").  See  CITY; 
VILLAGE.  W.  M.  CHRISTIE 


TOWN  CLERK,  klurk,  klark 
grammateus)  :  The  word  "clerk,"  "writer,"  "town 
clerk,"  "scribe,"  is  found  in  this  meaning  only  in 
Acts  19  35,  "when  the  townclerk  had  quieted  the 
multitude."  Cremer  defines  the  word  as  signifying 
a  "public  servant  among  the  Greeks  and  the  reader 
of  the  legal  and  state-papers"  (Lr.r.  NT).  There 
was  considerable  difference  between  the  authority 
of  these  "clerks"  in  the  cities  of  Asia  Minor  and  of 
Greece.  Among  the  Greeks  the  granunatcis  were 
usually  slaves,  or  at  least  persons  belonging  to  the 
lower  classes  of  society,  and  their  office  was  a  nomi- 
nal, almost  a  mechanical,  one.  In  Asia,  on  the  con- 
trary, they  were  officers  of  considerable  consequence, 
as  the  passage  quoted  indicates  (Time,  vii.10,  "the 
scribe  of  the  city")  and  the  gr<imm<ilcux  is  not  in- 
frequently mentioned  in  the  inscriptions  and  on  the 
coins  of  Ephesus  (e.g.  Brit.  Mim.  Inxcrip.,  Ill,  2, 
482,  528).  They  had  the  supervision  of  the  city 
archives,  all  official  decrees  were  drawn  up  by 
them,  and  it  was  their  prerogative  to  read  such 
decrees  to  the  assembled  citizens.  Their  social 
position  was  thus  one  of  eminence,  and  a  Gr  scribe 
would  have  been  much  amazed  at,  the  deference 
shown  to  his  colleagues  in  Asia  and  at  the  power 
they  wielded  in  the  administration  of  affairs.  See, 
further,  Hermann,  Staals  Altcrtum,  127,  20;  and 
EPHESUS.  HENRY  E.  DOSKER 

TRACHONITIS,  trak-6-nl'tis:  Appears  in  Scrip- 
ture only  in  the  phrase  TT)S  'Irovpaias  Kal  Tpaxum- 
rtSos  xwpas,  tes  Itonraias  kai  Trachonitidos  chorus, 
lit.  "of  the  Ituraean  and  Trachonian  region"  (Lk 
3  1).  Trachonitis  signifies  the  land  associated 
with  the  trachon,  "a  rugged  stony  tract."  There 
are  two  volcanic  districts  S.  and  E.  of  Damascus, 
to  which  the  Greeks  applied  this  name:  that  to 
the  N.W.  of  the  mountain  of  Bashan  (Jcbcl  ed- 
Druze)  is  now  called  d-Lcjd',  "the  refuge"  or 
"asylum."  It  lies  in  the  midst  of  an  arable  and 
pastoral  country;  and  although  it  could  never  have 
supported  a  large  population,  it  has  probably  always 
been  inhabited.  The  other  is  away  to  the  N.E.  of 
the  mountain,  and  is  called  in  Arab.  cs-Safd.  This 
covers  much  the  larger  area.  It  is  a  wild  and  in- 


hospitable desert  tract,  remote  from  the  dwellings 
of  men.  It  was  well  known  to  the  ancients;  but 
there  was  nothing  to  attract,  even  a  sparse;  popula- 
tion to  its  dark  and  forbidding  rocks,  burning  under 
the  suns  of  the  wilderness.  It  therefore  plays  no 
part  in  the  history.  These  art;  t  he  t  wo  Trachons  of 
Strabo  (xvi.2,  20).  They  are  entirely  volcanic  in 
origin,  consisting  of  lava  belched  forth  by  vol- 
canoes that  have  been  extinct  for  ages.  In  cooling, 
the  lava  has  split  up  and  crumbled  into  the  most 
weird  and  fantastic  forms.  The  average  elevation 
of  these  districts  above  the  surrounding  country  is 
about  30  ft.  E$-8<ifd  is  quite  waterless.  There"are 
springs  around  the  border  of  d-Lcjd',  but  in  the  in- 
terior, water-supply  depends  entirely  upon  cisterns. 
Certain  great  hollows  in  the  rocks  also  form  natural 
reservoirs,  in  which  the  rain  water  is  preserved 
through  the  summer  months. 

El-Leja'  is  roughly  triangular  in  shape,  with  its  apex 
to  the  X.  The  sides  are  about  25  miles  in  length,  and 
the  base  about  20.  The  present  writer  has  described 
this  region  as  ho  saw  it  during  two  somewhat  lengthened 
visits:  "From  Zor'a  our  course  lay  N.K.  by  E.  .... 
"What;  a  wild  solitude  it  is!  Far  on  every  hand  stretched 
a  veritable  land  of  stone.  The  first  hour  or  two  of  our 

march   no   living    thing   was  seen Wherever  we 

looked,  before  of  behind,  lay  wick' fields  of  volcanic  rock, 

black  and  repulsive with  here  and  there  a  deep 

circular  depression,  through  which  in  the  dim  past  red 
destruction  belched  forth,  now  carefully  walled  round  the 
lip  to  prevent  wandering  sheep  or  goat  from  falling  in  by 
night.  The  general  impression  conveyed  was  as  if  the 
dark  waters  of  a  great  sea,  lashed  to  fury  by  a  storm, 

had  been  suddenly  petrified At  times  we  passed 

over  vast  sheets  of  lava  which  in  cooling  had  cracked 
in  nearly  regular  lines,  and  which,  broken  through  in 
parts,  appeared  to  rest  on  a  stratum  of  different  char- 
acter, like  pieces  of  cyclopacan  pavement.  Curious 
rounded  rocks  were  occasionally  seen  by  the  wayside, 
like  gigantic  black  soap  bubbles  blown  up  by  the  sub- 
terranean steam  and  gases  of  the  active  volcanic  age; 
often,  with  the  side  broken  out  as  if  burst  by  escaping 
vapor,  the  mass,  having  cooled  too  far  to  collapse,  re- 
mained an  enduring  monument  of  the  force  that  formed 
it.  Scanty  vegetation  peeped  from  the  fissures  in  the 
rocks,  or  preserved  a  precarious  existence  in  the  scanty 
soil  sometimes  seen  in  a  hollow  between  opposing  slopes. 
In  a  dreary  waterless  land  where  the  cloudless  sun,  beat- 
ing down  on  fiery  stones,  creates  a  heat  like  that  of  an 
oven,  it  were  indeed  a  wonder  if  anything  less  hardy 
than  the  ubiquitous  thistle  could  long  hold  up  its  head. 
.  .  .  .  When  the  traveler  has  fairly  penetrated  the 
rough  barriers  that  surround  cl-L<ja  he  finds  not  a  little 
pleasant  land  within — fertile  soil  which,  if  only  freed  a 
little  from  overlying  stones,  might  support  a  moderate 
population.  In  ancient  times  it  \yas  partly  cleared,  and 
the  work  of  the  old-world  agriculturist's  remains  in 
gigantic  banks  of  stones  built  along  the  edges  of  the 
patches  they  cultivated"  (Arab  and  Druze  at  Home, 
30  ff). 

In  some  parts,  esp.  those  occupied  by  the  Druzes, 
fair  crops  are  grown.  Where  the  Arabs  are  masters, 
poverty  reigns.  They  also  have  an  evil  reputation. 
As  one  said  to  the  present  writer,  "They  will  even 
slay  the  guest."  'Arab  d-Lcjd'  anjas  ma  yakun  is 
a  common  saying,  which  may  be  freely  rendered: 
"Than  the  Arabs  of  d-Lcjd'  greater  rascals  do  not 
exist."  Intil  comparatively  recent  years  there 
were  great  breadths  of  oak  and  terebinth.  These 
have  disappeared,  largely  owing  to  the  enterprise 
of  the  charcoal  burners.  The  region  to  the  N.E. 
was  described  by  a  native  as  bass  w«V,  "nothing 
but  barren  rocky  tracts"  (cf  Heb  ya'ar),  over  which 
in  summer,  he  said,  not  even  a  bird  would  fly. 
There  are  many  ruined  sites.  A  list  of  71  names 
collected  by  the  present  writer  will  be  found  in 
1'EFS,  1895,  300  ff.  In  many  cases  the  houses, 
strongly  built  of  stone,  are  still  practically  com- 
plete, after  centuries  of  desertion. 

There  may  possibly  be  a  reference  to  the  Trachons 
in  the  OT  where  Jer  speaks  of  the  ha  rerun,  "parched 
places"  (17  0).  The  cognate  el-Harrah  is  the  word 
used  by  the  Arabs  for  such  a  burned,  rocky  area. 
For  the  theory  that  d-Lcjd'  corresponds  to  the  OT 
"Argob,"  see  ARGOK. 

The  robbers  who  infested  the  place,  making  use 


Trade 


THE  IXTEKNAT10XAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3002 


of  the  numerous  caves,  were  routed  out  by  Herod 
the  Groat  (Ant,  XV.  x,  1  ff;  XVI,  ix,  1;  XVII,  ii, 
1  f).  Trachonitis  was  included  in  the  letrarchy  of 
Philip  (viii,  1;  ix,  4).  At  his  death  without  heirs 
it  was  joined  to  the  province  of  Syria  (X  V1IJ,  iv,  6). 
Caligula  gave  it  to  Agrippa  I.  After  his  death  in 
44  AD,  and  during  the  minority  of  his  son,  it  was 
administered  by  Rom  officers.  From  53  till  100 
AD  it  was  ruled  by  Agrippa  II.  In  100  AD  it  was 
incorporated  in  the  ne\v  province,  of  Arabia.  Under 
the,  Romans  the  district  enjoyed  a  period  of  great 
prosperity,  to  which  the  Gr  inscriptions  amply  tes- 
tify. To  this  time  belong  practically  all  the  remains 
to  be  seen  today.  The  theaters,  temples,  public 
buildings  and  great  roads  speak  of  a  high  civili- 
zation. That  Christianity  also  made  its  way  into 
these  fastnesses  is  vouched  for  by  the  ruins  of 
churches.  Evil  days  came  with  the  advent  of  the 
Moslems.  Small  Christian  communities  are  still 
found  at  K/ntliab  on  the  western  Lithf,  and  at  »S'/7/- 
in  the  interior.  The  southeastern  district,  with  the 
chief  town  of  D/Inn  t  d-^AUn,  is  in  the  hands  of  the 
Druzes;  the  rest  is  dominated  by  the  Arabs. 

w.  i-;\vi.\(j 

TRADE,  trad: 
I.    G  v. \  I.H  \  i, 

1.  Terms 

2.  Posit  ion  of  Palestine 

3.  Trade  Products  of  Palestine 

4.  Palestinian  Traders 
II.      HISTORY 

1.  To  David 

2.  Solomon 

3.  Maritime  Trade 

4.  To  file  Exile 

5.  The  Kxile  and  After 

LlTEBATUKB 

/.    General. — For    a     full    list,    of    the   commer- 
cial   terms    used    in    the    ( >T,    reference    must    be 
made  to  Eli,  IV,  cols.  5193-99.     Only 
1.  Terms       the    more    important    can     be    given 
here. 

For  "merchant"  (he  Heh  uses  -almost  always  one  of 
the  two  participial  forms  1HD  ,  soht-r,  or  bjJtTl  i  rdkhcl, 
both  of  which  mean  simply  "one  who  travels."  There  is 
no  dilferenee  in  their  meaning,  but  when  the  two  are  used 
together  (Kzk  27  13  IO  KV  distinguishes  by  using 
"trafficker"  for  n'ik/ii'1.  The  vb.  xiihnr,  from  which 
sfihcr  is  derived,  is  trd  "to  tra.de"  in' den  34  10.21  and 
"to  traffic"  in  Gen  42  34,  with  numerous  noun  forma- 
tions from  (he  same  stem.  The  vb.  rnkfuil  from  which 
nlkhcl  is  derived  does  not  occur,  but  the  noun  format  inn 
rrkhnllah  in  K/k  26  12  (KV  "merchandise";;  28  5. Hi. 
IS  (KV  "traffic")  may  be  noted.  In  Kzk  27  24  KV 
has  "merchandise"  for  warknltth,  but  the  word  means 
"place  of  merchandise."  "market."  The  participle 
Qi^Pi ,  tarlm,  from  tur,  "seek  out,"  in  combination  with 

'anes'he,  "men."  in  1  K  10  !•">,  is  trd  "merchant  men" 
by  AV,  "chapmen"  by  KRV  and  "traders"  by  AKV; 
iii  2  (Mi  9  14.  AV  and  KKVhave  " chapmen "  and  AKV 

"traders."  The  text  of  these  verses  is  suspected.  In 
Ezk  27  (only)  "merchandise"  represents  3"l2?^2 ,  ma- 

'Arabh,  from  'arabh,  "to  exchange,"  trd  "to  deal,"  m 
"exchange,"  in  ver  9  ARY,  with  "dealers,"  m  "ex- 
changers," in  ver  27  (AV  and  EKV  have  "occupy," 
"occupiers").  1""5'  kena'an,  and  "1Zl"!2  ,  kena'dnl, 
"Canaanite,"  are  sometimes  used  in  the  sense  of  "  mer- 
chant," but  it  is  often  difficult  to  determine  whether  the 
literal  or  the  transferred  force  is  intended.  Hence  all 
the  confusion  in  KV;  in  RV  note  "merchant,"  Job  41 
6;  "merchant,"  m  "  Canaanite,"  Prov  31  24;  "traf- 
ficker," Isa  23  8;  "trafficker,"  m  "Oanaanite,"  Hos 
12  <";  "Canaan."  m  "merchant  people,"  Isa  23  1 1 ; 
Zeph  1  11,  and  ef  "land  of  traffic,"  m  "land  of  Canaan," 
Ezk  17  4.  See  CHAPMAN;  OCCUPY. 

In  Apoc  and  NT  "merchant"  is  for  e/u7ropo?,  6m po- 
ms (Sir  26  29,  etc;  _  Mt  13  45;  Rev  18  3.11.15.23). 
So  "merchandise"  is  e/un-optor,  rmporion,  in  Jn  2  K>  and 

ffjiTTOpia,  emporla,  in  Mt  22  ">,  while  e/iTTOptiioMcu,  c  m- 
porcuomai,  is  tr<>  "make  merchandise  of"  in  2  Pet  2  3 
atid  "trade"  in  .las  4  13  (AV  "buy  and  sell").  15ut 
"to  trade"  in  Mt  25  1<>  is  for  epyafo^at,  ergdzomai  (cf 
Rev  18  17),  and  Lk  19  13  for  Trpay/naTevo/iai,  prag- 
mateiiomni,  AV  "occupy";  while  "merchandise"  in 
Rev  18  11.12  is  for  yo^os,  (jdmox,  "cargo"  (so  RVm; 
cf  Acts  21  3).  Worthy  of  note,  moreover,  is  /aera/BoAta, 
metabolla,  "exchange"  (Sir  37  11). 


Any  road  map  of  the  ancient  world  shows  that  Pal, 

despite  its  lack  of  harbors,  occupied  an  extremely 

important    position     as    regards    the 

2.  Position    trade-routes.     There   was   no   exit   to 
of  Palestine  the  W.  from  the  great  caravan  center 

Damascus,  there  was  virtually  no  exit 
landward  from  the  great  maritime  centers  Tyre  and 
Sidon,  and  there  was  no  exit  to  the  N.  and  N.E.  from 
Egypt  wit  hout  crossing  Pal.  In  part  icular,  the  only 
good  road  connecting  Tyre  (and  Sidon)  with  Damas- 
cus lay  directly  across  Northern  Pal,  skirting  the  Sea 
of  Galilee.  In  consequence,  foreign  merchants 
must  at  all  times  have  been  familiar  figures  in  Pal 
(den  37  25.2S;  1  K  10  15;  Neh  13  10;  Isa  2 
0;  Zeph  1  11,  etc).  As  a  corollary,  tolls  laid  on 
these  merchants  would  always  have  been  a  fruitful 
source  of  income  (1  K  10  15;  Ezk  26  2;  Ezr  4 
20),  and  naturally  Pal  enjoyed  particular  advan- 
tages for  the  distribution  of  her  own  products 
through  the  presence  of  these  traders. 

Of  these  products  the  three  great  staples  were 
grain,  oil  and  wine  (IIos  2  8;    Dt  7  13,  etc).     The 

wine  of  Pal,  however,  gained  little  rep- 

3.  Trade        utation  in  the  ancient  world,  and  its 
Products  of   export   is   mentioned  only  in  2  C'h  2 
Palestine       10.15;    Ezr  3  7,  while  Ezk  27  18  says 

expressly  that  for  good  wine  Tyre  sent 
to  Damascus.  Grain  would  not  be  needed  by  Egypt, 
but  it  found  a  ready  market  in  Phoenicia,  both  for 
consumption  in  the  great  cities  of  Tyre  and  Sidon 
and  for  export  (1  K  5  11;  Ezr  3  7;  Ezk  27  17, 
etc).  A  reverse  dependence  of  Pal  on  Tyre  for  food 
(Isa  23  IS;  cf  (ien  41  57)  could  have  occurred 
only  under  exceptional  circumstances.  _  Oil  was 
needed  by  Egypt  as  well  as  by  Phoenicia  (IIos 
12  1;  Isa  57  '.»),  but  from  Northern  Israel  was 
probably  shipped  into  Egypt  by  way  of  Phoenicia. 
IIos  2  5.9  mentions  wool  and  flax  as  products  of 
Israel,  but  neither  could  have  been  important. 
Flax  was  a  specialty  of  Egypt  (Isa  19  !))  and 
is  hardly  mentioned  in  the  OT,  while  for  wool 
Israel  had  to  depend  largely  on  Moab  (2  K  3 
4;  Isa  16  1).  Minor  products  that  were  exported 
were  ''balm  ....  honey,  spicery  and  myrrh, 
pistachio-nuts  and  almonds"  (Gen  43  11  m;  see 
the  separate  arts.,  and  cf  "pannag  and  .... 
balm"  in  Ezk  27  17).  These  were  products  of 
Gilead  (Gen  37  25).  "Oaks  of  Bashan"  had  com- 
mercial value,  but  only  for  use  for  oars  (Ezk  27  5), 
and  so  in  small  logs.  Pal  had  to  import  all  heavy 
timbers  (1  K  5  6,  etc).  Despite  Dt  8  9,  Pal  is 
deficient  in  mineral  wealth.  The  value  of  Pal's 
manufactured  products  would  depend  on  the  skill 
of  the  inhabitants,  but  for  the  arts  the  Hebrews 
seem  to  have  had  no  particular  aptitude  (1  K  5  0; 
cf  1  S  13  19  ff). 

In   comparison  with  the  great  volume  of  inter- 
national trade  that  was  constantly  passing  across 

Pal,   the   above   products   could   have 

4.  Palestin-  had  no  very  great  value  and  the  great 
ian  Traders  merchants  would  normally  have  been 

foreigners.  A  wide  activity  as  "mid- 
dlemen" and  agents  was,  however,  open  to  the  in- 
habitants of  Pal,  if  they  cared  to  use  it.  Such  a 
profession  would  demand  close  contact  with  the 
surrounding  nations  and  freedom  from  religious 
scruples.  The  Canaanites  evidently  excelled  in 
commercial  pursuits  of  this  time,  so  much  so  that 
"Canaanite"  and  "merchant"  were  convertible 
terms. 

II.  History. — The   Israelites  entered  Canaan  as 
a  nomadic  people  who  had  even  agriculture  yet  to 

learn,  and  with  a  religious  self-con- 
1.  To  David  sciousness  that  restrained  them  from 

too  close  relations  with  their  neighbors. 
Hence  they  were  debarred  from  much  participation 
in  trade.  The  legislation  of  the  Pent  (in  sharp  dis- 


3003 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trade 


Unction  from  that  of  CII)  shows  this  nem-commer- 
cial  spirit  very  clearly,  as  then;  are:  no  provisions 
that  relate  to  merchants  heyoncl  such   elementary 
matters  as  the  prohibition  of  false  weights,  etc  (Dt 
25   13;    Lev  19  3(i;    CO  Jia.s  not,  even  these  rules). 
In  particular,  the  prohibition  of  interest,  (Ex  22  LTi; 
Dt  23  19,  etc)   shows  that  no  native  commercial 
life  was  contemplated,  for,  without  a  credit -system, 
trade   on  any  extensive  scale  was  impossible.     All 
this  was  to  be  left  to  foreigners  (Dt  23  20;  of  15  (i; 
28  12.4-1).     The    Jewish    ideal,    indeed,    was    that 
each  household  should  form  a  self-sufficient  pro- 
ducing unit  (Prov  31   10-27),  with  local  or  national 
exchange  of  those  commodities  (such  as  tools  and 
salt)  that  could  not  be  produced  at  home.     And  this 
ideal  seems  to  have  been  maintained  tolerably  well. 
The  most  northerly  tribes,  through  their  proximity 
to  the  Phoenicians,  were  those  first  affected  by  the 
commercial   spirit,    and   in    particular   the   isolated 
half-tribe    of    Dan.     In    Jgs  5  17    we    find    them 
''remaining  in  ships"  at  the  time  of  Barak's  victory. 
As  their  territory  had  no  seacoast,  this  must  mean 
that  they  were  gaining  funds  by  serving  in  the  ships 
of  Tyre  and  Sidon.     Zebulun  and   Issachar,   like- 
wise, appear  in  Dt  33  19  as  the  merchants  of  Israel, 
apparently  selling  their  wares  chiefly  nt  the  time 
of   the   great   religious   assemblages.     But   the  dis- 
orders at  the  time  of  the  Judges  were  an  effectual 
bar  against  much  commerce.     Saul  at  length  suc- 
ceeded in  producing  some  kind  of  order,  and  we 
hear    that    he _ had   brought   in   a   prosperity   that 
showed  itself  in  richer  garments  and  golden  orna- 
ments  for    the   women    (2  S  1  24;     see  MONEY). 
David's  own    establishment   of   an   official   shekel 
(2  S  14  2(3)   is  proof  that  trade   was   becoming   a 
matter  of  importance. 

Under  Solomon,  however,  Israel's  real  trade  began. 

The  writer  oMv  lays  special  stress  on  his  imports. 

From  Tyre  came  timber   (I    K    5    6, 

2.  Solomon  etc)  and  gold   (9    11).      From   Sheba 

came  gold  and  spices  (10  10,  "gave" 
here,  like  "presents"  elsewhere,  is  a  euphemism). 
From  Ophir  and  elsewhere  came  gold,  silver,  pre- 
cious stones,  almug  trees,  ivory,  apes  and  peacocks 
(10  11.22.25).  According  to  MT  10  2S  f ,  horses 
and  chariots  were  brought  from  Egvpt  and  re-sold 
to  the  X. 

But  the  text  hero  is  suspected.  Egypt  had  no  repu- 
tation as  a  horse-mart  in  comparison  with  Northern 
Syria  and  Western  Armenia  (see  TO<;AKMAH).  So  many 
scholars  prefer  to  read  "  Musri  "  (in  Northwestern  Arabia) 
for  "Egypt"  (»ifr  for  myri/m — see  the  comms.,  esp.  EH, 
III,  cols.  :51<'>1_>-<;.T).  Yet  the  change  does  not  clear  up  all 
the  difficulties,  and  Egypt  was  certainly  famous  for  her 
chariots.  And  cf  Dt  17  16. 

In  exchange  Solomon  exported  to  Tyre  wheat  and 
oil  (1  K  5  11;  2  Ch  2  10.15  adds  "barley  .... 
and  wine").  AVhat  he  sent  to  the  other  countries 
is  not  specified,  and,  in  particular,  there  is  no  men- 
tion  of  what  he  exchanged  for  gold.  1  K  5  11; 
9  11,  however,  indicate  that  Hiram  was  the  inter- 
mediary for  most  of  this  gold  traffic,  so  that  at 
the  final  settlement  of  accounts  Solomon  must  have 
been  heavily  in  Hiram's  debt.  1  K  9  11  proves 
this.  Solomon  had  undertaken  a  larger  task  than 
the  resources  of  Pal  could  meet ,  and  in  payment  was 
obliged  to  cede;  Northern  Galilee  to  Hiram.  (The 
writer  of  1  K  explains  that  'the  cities  were  worth- 
less,' while  Ch  passes  over  the  uncdifying  incident 
altogether,  if  2  Ch  8  2  is  not  a  reversal  of  the  case.) 

Among  Solomon's  other  activities  sea-commerce 

was   not   forgotten.     David's   victory   over   Edom 

gave  access  to  the  Red  Sea  at  Ezion- 

3.  Maritime  geber,   and   this   port  was  utilized  by 
Trade  Hiram    and    Solomon    in    partnership 

(1  K  9  2(5  ff),  Hiram,  apparently, 
supplying  the  ships  and  the  sailors  (10  11).  After 
Solomon's  death,  Edom  revolted  and  the  way  to 


the  sea  was  closed  (11  11).  It  was  not  recovered 
until  the  time  of  Jehoshaphat,  and  he  could  do 
not  h ing  with  it ,  "for  I  lie  ships  were  broken  at  Ezion- 
geber"  (22  4SJ,  i.e.  in  the  home  harbor.  Either 
they  were  badly  built  or  incompetently  manned. 
The  Hebrews  had  no  skill  as  sailors.  See  SHIPS 
A.XD  BOATS. 

After  the  time  of  Solomon  the  commerce;  estab- 
lished by  him  of  course;  continued,  with  fluctuations. 
Samaria  became;  so  important  a  city 
4.  To  the  frenn  the  trade;  standpoint  that  Ben- 
Exile  hadad  1  forced  Baasha  to  assign  a 
street,  there:  to  the:  meivhants  e>f  Da- 
mascus, while  Ahab  succeedeel  in  extracting  the 
reverse;  privilege  from  Ben-haelael  II  (1  K  20  34  j. 
The  h)iig  and  prosperems  contemporary  reigns  of 
Jeroboam  II  and  Vzziah  evielently  had  great  im- 
portance for  the  growth  of  commerce',  and  it  was 
the  growing  luxury  of  the  land  under  these  reigns 
that  called  forth  the  denunciations  of  Amos,  Hose^a 
and  Isaiah.  Amos  complains  of  the  importation 
of  e-xpe-nsive  foreign  luxuries  by  the:  rich  (cf  Isa  3 
18-23),  who  wasted  the  natural  products  of  Pal 
(63-0;  3  12.15).  Grain,  the  chief  article  of  value, 
was  extorted  fre)m  the  poor  (5  11),  and  the  grain- 
dealers  we're  notoriously  dishonest  (8  4-0);  8  Gc 
in  EV  suggests  the  sale  of  adulterated  grain.  The 
meaning  of  the  Heb,  however,  is  obscure,  but  of 
course  adulteration  must  have  existed,  and  it  is 
doubtless  not  without  significance  that  the  labels 
on  the  recently  dise-overeel  Samaritan  jar-fragments 
emphasize  the  purity  of  the  contents  (11/rrrnrd 
Thcol.  Her.,  1U11,  138-39).  The  extent  of  commer- 
cialism so  overwhelms  Ilosea  that  he  exclaims 
'Ephraim  is  become  a  Canaanite!'  (12  7m).  The 
most  unscrupulous  dealing  is  justified  by  the  plea, 
"Surely  I  am  become;  rich"  (verS).  Isaiah  is  shocked 
at  the  intimate  contracts  made  with  foreigners,  which 
prove  so  profitable  to  the  makers,  but  which  bring 
in  idolatry  (2  6-8).  It  was  in  the  time  of  Isaiah 
that  Assyr  influence  began  to  make1  itself  fe'lt  in 
Judah,  and  the  setting  up  in  the  Temple:  of  a  pat- 
tern of  an  Assyr  altar  (2  K  16  10  f)  must  have 
been  accompanied  with  an  influx  of  Assyr  commod- 
ities of  all  descriptions.  (Similarly,  the  religious 
reaction  under  Hezekiah  we>uld  have>  been  accom- 
panied by  a  boycott  on  Assyr  goods.)  Data  for 
the  following  preexilic  period  are  se-anty,  but  Ezk 
26  2  shows  that  Jems  retained  a  posit iem  of  some 
commercial  importance  up  1e)  the  time  of  her  fall. 
Of  espee-ial  interest  are  Isa  23  and  Ezk  26,  27  with 
their  descriptions  of  the  commere-c  of  Tyre.  Eze'- 
kiel  indeed  confines  himself  to  description,  but  Isaiah 
e-haraeterizes  the  income  of  all  this  trade  as  "the 
hire  of  a  harlot"  (vs  17.18),  a  phrase  that  reappears 
in  Rev  18  3.9 — a  chapter  cowhcd  in  the  genuine 
old  prophetic  tone  and  based  almost  exclusively  em 
Isa  anel  Ezk.  But  it  is  important  te)  note  that 
Isaiah  realizes  (23  18)  that  all  this  enterprise  is 
capable  of  consecration  to  Jeh  and  is  therefore  not 
wrong  in  itself. 

The  deportation  into  Babylon  brought  the  Je'ws 
directly  into  the  midst  of  a  highly  developed  com- 
mercial civilization,  anel,  although  we- 
5.  The  Exile  are:  ignorant  of  the  derails,  they  must 
and  After  have  emteml  into  this  life  to  a  very 
considerable  exte>nt.  Indeed,  it  is  more 
than  probable  that  it  was  here  that  the:  famed  com- 
mercial genius  of  the  Jews  made  its  appearance. 
Certain  it  is  that  exiles  ae-quiml  givat  wealth  and 
rose  to  high  position  (Zee  6  10  f;  Neh  1  11;  5  17, 
etc),  and  that  when  an  opportunity  to  return  to 
Pal  was  opened,  most  of  the  exiles  prefc'rred  to  stay 
where  they  we're  (see  EXILE).  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
the  Palestinian  community  was  beggarly  poor  for 
years  (Zoo  8  10;  Hag  1  6;  Neh  1  3;  Mai  3  10-12, 
etc)  and  could  not  even  pre've'iit  the  sale  of  its  chil- 


Trades 
Transfiguration 


THE  INTERNATIONA!,  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3004 


dron  into  slavery  (Joel  3  G).  Such  Irade  as  existed 
\vas  chiefly  in  the  hands  of  foreigners  (Joel  3  1  t  ; 
Zee  14  2l'),  but  the  repealed  crop-failures  must 
have  forced  many  Jews  into  commerce  to  keep  from 
starving.  The  history  of  the  4th  cent,  is  very  ob- 
scure, but  for  the  later  commercial  history  ol  the 
Jews  the  foundation  of  Alexandria  (332  BC)  \vas  a 
fact  of  fundamental  importance.  Tor  Alexandria 
rapidly  became  the  commercial  center  of  the  world 
and  into  it  the  Jews,  attracted  by  th<>  invitations 
of  the  Ptolemies,  poured  in  streams.  Alexandria  s 
policv  was  closely  copied  by  Antioch  (on  the  period 
see  Ant,  XII,  i,  iii;  cf  ALEXANDRIA;  ANTIOCH),  and 
\td  X  1 1  iv,  shows  that  the  ability  of  the  Jews  was 
duly  recognized  by  the  Gentiles.  But  this  develop- 
ment was  outside  Pal.  Sir  does  not  count  commerce 
among  the  list  of  trades  in  38  21-30  (note,  however, 
the  increased  importance  of  artisans)  and  his  refer- 
ences to  commerce  throughout  are  not  esp.  charac- 
teristic (6  S;  8  K5,  etc;  but  sen-  42  7).  But  even 
the  trade  of  Pal  must  have  been  increasing  steadily. 
Under  the  Maccabees  Joppu  was  captured,  and  the 
opening  of  its  port  for  (if  commerce  is  numbered 
among  Simon's  "glories"  (I  Mace  14  ,r>).  The  uni- 
fication of  the  trade-world  under  Rome,  ot  course, 
gave  Pal  a  share  in  the  benefits.  Herod  was  able  to 
work  commercial  miracles  (Ant,  XV,  vi,  7;  yiu,  1 
ix,  2;  xi,  1 ;  XVI,  v,  3,  etc),  and  the  Pal  of  the  N  I 
is  n  commercial  rather  than  an  agricultural  nation. 
Christ's  parables  touch  almost  every  side  of  com- 
mercial life  and  present  even  the  pearl  merchant  as 
a  not  unfamiliar  figure  (Mt  13  4.1).  Into  theethics 
of  commerce,  however,  He  entered  little  Sharp 
dealings  were  everywhere  (Mk  12  40;  Lk  16  1-1 
etc),  and  the  service  of  Mammon,  which  had  pushed 
its  way  even  into  the  temple  (Mk  11  15-17  and  's), 
was  u'tterly  incompatible  with  the  service  of  God 
(Mt  6  I")  34,  etc).  In  themselves,  however,  the 
things  of  Caesar  and  the  things  of  God  (Mk  12  17 
and'  's)  belong  to  different  spheres,  and  with  finan- 
cial questions  pure  and  simple  He  refused  to  inter- 
fere (Lk  12  13  f).  For  further  details  and  for  the 
(not  very  elaborate-)  teaching  of  the  apostles  see 
ETHICS. 

LITI-HATT-RK.— The  appropriate  sections  in  the  7/.1's 
and  Mih  diets  ,  esp.  (i.  A.  Smith's  indispensable  art. 
"Trade"  in  El  IV.  cols.  5145-99  (1903);  for  the,  later 
p™  OJV*  H,  67-82  (1907),  III  97-102  (1'K)'.,)  Of 
also  Heiv.feld,  Handelsgeachichte  dt-r  Jwlcn  den  Alter- 
thnmx'*  (1S94). 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 
TRADES,  tradz.     See  CHAFTS. 

TRADITION,  tra-dish'un:  The  Gr  word  is  vapd- 
Soffit,  pdrdiloNts,  "a  giving  over,"  either  by  word 
of  mouth  or  in  writing;  then  that  which  is  given 
over,  i.e.  tradition,  the  teaching  that  is  handed 
down  from  one  to  another.  The  word  does  not 
occur  in  the  Heb  OT  (except  in  Jer  39  [32]  4;  41 
[34]  2,  used  in  another  sense),  or  in  LXX  or  Apoc 
(except  in  2  Esd  7  26,  used  in  a  different  sense),  but 
is  found  13  t  in  the  NT  (Mt  15  2.3.6;  Mk  7  3^  8.0. 
13;  1  Cor  11  2;  Gal  1  14;  Col  2  8;  2  Ihcss 
2  l.r>;  3  0). 

The  term  in  the  NT  has  apparently  three  mean- 
ings. It  means,  in  Jewish  theology,  the  oral  teach- 
ings of  the  elders  (distinguished  an- 
1.  Meaning  cestors  from  Moses  on)  which  were 
in  Jewish  reverenced  by  the  late  Jews  equally 
Theology  with  the  written  teachings  of  the  OT, 
and  were  regarded  by  them  as  equally 
authoritative  on  matters  of  belief  and  conduct. 
There  seem  to  be  three  classes  of  these  oral  teach- 
ings: (a)  some  oral  laws  of  Moses  (as  they  supposed) 
given  by  the  great  lawgiver  in  addition  to  the 
written  laws;  (6)  decisions  of  various  judges  which 
became  precedents  in  judicial  matters;  (c)  inter- 
pretations of  great  teachers  (rabbis)  which  came 


to  be  prized  with  the  same  reverence  as  were  the 
OT  Scriptures. 

It  was  against  the  tradition  of  the  elders  in  this 
first  sense  that  Jesus  spoke  so  pointedly  to  thescribes 
and  Pharisees  (Mt  15  2  f ;  Mk  7  3  f).  The  Phari- 
sees charged  Jesus  with  transgressing  "the  tradition 
of  the  elders."  Jesus  turned  on  them  with  the 
question,  "Why  do  ye  also  transgress  the  com- 
mandment of  God  because  of  your  tradition?"  He 
then  shows  how  their  hollow  traditionalism  has 
fruited  into  mere  ceremonialism  and  externalism 
(washing  of  hands,  vessels,  saying  "Corban"  to  a 
suffering  parent,  i.e.  "My  property  is  devoted  to 
God,  and  therefore  I  cannot  use  it  to  help  you," 
etc),  but  He  taught  that  this  view  of  uncleamiess 
was  essentially  false,  since  the  heart,  the  seat  of  the 
soul,  is  the  source-  of  thought,  character  and  con- 
duct (Mk  7  14  f). 

The  word  is  used  by  Paul  when  referring  to  his 

personal    Christian    teachings    to    the    churches    at 

Corinth   and   Thessalonica    (I  Cor  11 

2.  As  Used    2;  2  Thess  2  15;   3  0).     In  this  sense 
in  1  Cor          the    word    in    the    sing,    is   better    trd 
and  2  Thess  "instruction,"   signifying   the  body  of 

teaching  delivered  by  the  apostle  to  the 
church  at  Thessalonica  (2  Thess  3  6).  But  Paul  in 
the  other  two  passaged  used  it  in  the  pi.,  meaning 
the  separate;  instructions  which  he  delivered  to  the 
churches  at  Corinth  and  Thessalonica. 

The  word  is  used  by  Paul  in  Col  2  8  in  a  sense 
apparently  different  from  the  two  senses  above. 

lie  warns  his  readers  against  the  teaeh- 

3.  As  Used    ings  of  the  false  teachers  in  Colossae, 
in  Col  which  are  "after  the  tradition  of  men." 

Olshausen,  Lightfoot,  Dargan,  in  their 
comms.  in  loc.,  maintain  that  the  reference  is  to  the 
Judaist  ic  character  of  1  he  false  teachers.  This  may 
be  true,  and  yet  we  must  see  that  the  word  "tradi- 
tion" has  a  much  broader  meaning  here  than  in  1 
above.  Besides,  it  is  not  certain  that  the  false 
teachings  at  Colossae  are  essentially  Jewish  in  char- 
acter. The  phrase  "tradition  of  men"  seems  to 
emphasize  merely  1  he  li union,  not  necessarily  Jewish, 
origin  of  these  false,  teachings. 

The  vb.  irapaSidufu,  paradidomi,  "to  give  over," 
is  also  used  5  t  to  express  the  impart ation  of  Chris- 
tian instruction:  Lk  1  2,  where  eyewitnesses  are 
said  to  have  handed  down  the  things  concerning 
Jesus;  1  Cor  11  2.23  and  15  3  referring  to  the 
apostle's  personal  teaching;  2  Pet  2  21,  to  instruc- 
tion by  some  Christian  teacher  (cf  1  Pet  1  18). 

LITEUATTTKE.— Broadns,  Allen,  Meyer,  comms.  on 
Mt  (15  2f);  S\vete,  Could,  comms.  on  Mk  (7  •->!); 
Lightfoot,  Meyer,  comms.  on  Gal  (1  14);  Ligntioot, 
Olshausen,  Dargan  (Am.  Comm.),  comms.  on  Col  (2  8); 
Milligan,  comm.  on  1  and  2  Thess  (2  Thess  2  15  and 


3  <>);  Weber,  Jewish  Theology  (Ger.,  Altsyn.  Theol.); 
I'ocoek.  1'ortn  Moxis,  350-402;  Kehiirer,  II J I', ,11,  i.  see. 
25;  Edershelm,  Life  and  Times  of  Jesut  the  Mettian,  n, 
chxxxi;  Jos,  Ant,  XIII,  x,  (>. 

CHARLES  B.  WILLIAMS 

TRAFFIC,     traf'ik,     TRAFFICKER,      trafik-er 

(I?:?  ,  krn<i\in,  "lilC")?  ,  viishar,  "MIC  ,  sahar,  !~OD"} , 
rrkhidlah):  (1)  Kena\in  =  "Canaan,"  and,  as  the 
Canaanited  were  celebrated  merchants,  came  to 
mean  "merchant,"  and  so  "traffic"  (see  CANAAN). 
Ezk  17  4  refers  to  the  great  eagle  who  "cropped  off 
the  topmost  of  the  young  twigs  [of  cedar]  thereof, 
and  carried  it  unto  a  land  of  traffic;  he  set  it  in  a 
city  of  merchants."  (2)  Mishar  means  "trade,"  and 
so '"traffic";  comes  from  a  root  meaning  "to  travel 
round,"  e.g.  as  a  peddler.  1  K  10  15  reads:  "Be- 
sides that  which  the  traders  brought,  and  the  traffic 
of  t  he  merchants."  This  refers  to  the  income  of  Sol- 
omon. (3)  Sahar  means  "to  go  about,"  "occupy 
with,"  "trade,'''  "traffic,"  "merchant,"  and  BO  the 
business  of  the  moving  merchant  or  peddler.  Joseph 


3005 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trades 
Transfiguration 


said  to  liis  brothers:  "So  will  I  deliver  you  your 
brother,  and  ye  shall  traffic  iu  Ilie  laud"  ((Jen  42 
34).  He  evidently  meant  that  they  should  have 
license  to  become1,  throughout  Egypt,  traveling 
traders.  (4)  Rekhulldh,  from  a  root  meaning  "to 
travel  for  trading,"  and  so  a  peddled  traffic,  as  in 
spices,  et  c.  Ezekiel  speaks  against  t  he  prince  of  Tyre : 
"By  thy  great  wisdom  and  by  thy  traffic  hast  thou 
increased  thy  riches"  (28  5);  "and  against  the  king 
of  Tyre:  "in  the  unrighteousness  of  thy  traffic,"  elc. 
(Ezk  28  IS).  See  MARKET;  MERCHANDISE;  SHIPS 
AND  BOATS,  II,  2,  (2);  TRADE. 

WILLIAM  EDWAHD  RAFKETY 

TRAGACANTH,  trag'a-kanth:  For  "spicery" 
in  (Jen  37  25,  RVm  gives  "gum  tragacanth  or 
storax."  See  SPICK;  STORAX. 

TRAIN,  Iran  (vb.  -f:n  ,  hanakh,  "educate"  [Prov 
22  G],  with  adj.  hanlhk  [Gen  14  14]):  In  1  K  10  2 
the  Queen  of  Sheba's  "train,"  the  noun  is  b^H , 
hnyil,  the  usual  word  for  "force,"  "army."  But  in 
Isa  6  1  the  "train"  plttj ,  sJiiil,  "loose  hanging  gar- 
ment") is  that  of  God's  robe  (RVm  "skirts"). 

TRAIN,  tran,  TRAINED,  trand:  The  word  is 
used  in  two  places  in  both  AV  and  RV,  viz.  Gen 
14  14,  where  it  means  "drilled,"  "prepared  for  war," 
and  Prov  22  G.  "Train  up  a  child"  means  more 
than  to  teach,  and  includes  everything  that  pertains 
to  the  proper  development  of  the  child,  esp.  in  its 
moral  and  spiritual  nature.  In  this  broader  sense 
also  RV  substitutes  "train"  for  the  "teach"  of  AV 
in  Tit  2  4  (sophronizo) . 

TRANCE,  trans  (eKo-racris,  c'A-.s/a.s/.s) :  The  con- 
dition expressed  by  this  word  is  a  mental  state  in 
which  the  person  affected  is  partially  or  wholly 
unconscious  of  objective  sensations,  but  intensely 
alive  to  subjective  impressions  which,  however  they 
may  be  originated,  are  felt  as  if  they  were  revela- 
tions from  without.  They  may  take  the  form  of 
visual  or  auditory  sensations  or  else  of  impressions 
of  taste,  smell,  heat  or  cold,  and  sometimes  these 
conditions  precede  epileptic  seizures  constituting 
what  is  named  the  aura  epilcpiica.  The  word 
occurs  5  t  in  AV,  twice  in  the  story  of  Balaam  (Nu 
24  4.16),  twice  in  the  history  of  Peter  (Acts  10  10; 
11  5),  and  once  in  that  of  Paul  (Acts  22  17).  In 
the  Balaam  story  the  word  is  of  the  nature  of  a  gloss 
rather  than  a  tr,  as  the  Heb  ndpfutl  means  simply 
"to  fall  down"  and  is  tr'1  accordingly  in  RV.  Here 
LXX  has  en  kiipno,  "in  sleep"  (see  SLEEP,  DEEP). 
In  Peter's  vision  on  the  housetop  at  Joppa  he  saw 
the  sail  (othone)  descending  from  heaven,  and  heard 
a  voice.  Paul's  trance  was  also  one  of  both  sight 
and  sound.  The  vision  on  the  Damascus  road 
(Acts  9  3-9)  and  that  recorded  in  2  Cor  12  2-4 
were  also  cases  of  trance,  as  were  the  prophetic 
ecstasies  of  Saul,  Daniel  and  Elisha,  and  the  con- 
dition of  John  in  which  he  says  that  he  was  "in  the 
Spirit"  (Rev  1  10). 

The  border  line  between  trance  and  dream  is 
indefinite:  the  former  occurs  while  one  is,  in  a  sense, 
awake;  the  latter  takes  place  in  the  passage  from 
sleep  to  wakefulness.  The  dream  as  well  as  the 
vision  were  supposed  of  old  to  be  channels  of  reve- 
lation (Job  33  15).  In  Shakespearean  Eng.,  trance 
means  a  dream  (Taming  of  the  8 lire w,  I,  i,  182),  or 
simply  a  bewilderment  (Lucrece,  1595). 
_  In  the  phenomena  of  hypnotic  suggestion,  some- 
times affecting  a  number  of  persons  simultaneously, 
we  have  conditions  closely  allied  to  trance,  and 
doubtless  some  of  the  well-authenticated  phantom 
appearances  are  similar  subjective  projections  from 
the  mind  affecting  the  visual  and  auditory  centers 
of  the  brain.  ALEX.  MACALISTEH 


TRANSFIGURATION,  trans-fig-n-ra'shun  (^ra^ 
\i.opfy6o\i.a.i,  mcta7norpkoomai,  "to  be  transformed'';: 
Used  only  with  reference  to  the  transfiguration  of 
Christ  (Mt  17  2;  Mk  9  2)  and  the  change  wrought 
in  the  Christian  personality  through  fellowship  with 
Christ  (Rom  12  2;  2  Cor  3  IS). 

(1)  About  midway  of  His  active  ministry  Jesus, 
accompanied  by  Peter,  James  and  John,  withdrew 
to  a  high  mountain  apart  (probably  Ml.  Hermon; 
see  next  art.)  for  prayer.  "While  praying  Jesus  was 
"transfigured,"  "hisfacedid  shine  as  the  sun,"  "and 
his  garments  became  glistering,  exceeding  white, 
so  as  no  fuller  on  earth  can  whiten  them."  It  was 
night  and  it  was  cold.  The  disciples  were  drowsy 
and  at  first  but  dimly  conscious  of  the  wonder  in 
progress  before  their  eyes.  From  the  brightness 
came  the  sound  of  voices.  Jesus  was  talking  with 
Moses  and  Elijah,  the  subject  of  the  discourse,  as 
the  disciples  probably  learned  later,  being  of  the 
decease  (exodus)  which  Jesus  was  about  to  accom- 
plish at  Jerus.  As  the  disciples  came  to  themselves, 
the  figures  of  Moses  and  Elijah  seemed  to  withdraw, 
whereupon  Peter  impetuously  demanded  tents  to 
be  set  up  for  Jesus  and  His  heavenly  visitants  that 
the  stay  might  be  prolonged  and,  if  possible,  made 
permanent.  Just  then  a  cloud  swept  over  them, 
and  out  of  the  cloud  a  voice  came,  saying,  "This  is 
my  beloved  Son:  hear  ye  him."  In  awe  the  dis- 
ciples prostrated  themselves  and  in  silence  waited. 
Suddenly,  lifting  up  their  eyes  they  saw  no  one, 
save  Jesus  only  (Mt  17  1-13;  Mk  9  2-13;  Lk 
9  28-36). 

Such  is  the  simple  record.  What  is  its  signifi- 
cance? The  Scripture  narrative- offers  no  explana- 
tion, and  indeed  the  event  is  afterward  referred  to 
only  in  the  most  general  way  by  Peter  (2  Pet  1 
16-18)  and,  perhaps,  by  John  (Jn  1  14).  That  it 
marked  a  crisis  in  the  career  of  Jesus  there  can  be 
no  doubt.  From  this  time  lie  walked  consciously 
under  the  shadow  of  the  cross.  A  strict  silence  on 
the  subject  was  enjoined  upon  the  three  witnesses 
of  His  transfiguration  until  after  "the  Son  of  man 
should  have  risen  again  from  the  dead."  This 
means  that ,  as  not  before,  Jesus  was  made  to  realize 
the  sacrificial  character  of  His  mission;  was  made  to 
know  for  a  certainty  that  death,  soon  and  cruel, 
was  to  be  His  portion;  was  made  to  know  also  that 
His  mission  as  the  fulfilment  of  Law  (Moses)  and 
prophecy  (Elijah)  was  not  to  be  frustrated  by  death. 
In  His  heart  now  would  sound  forever  the  Father's 
approval,  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am 
well  pleased."  The  scene,  therefore,  wrought  out 
in  Jesus  a  new  fervor,  a  new  boldness,  a  new  con- 
fidence of  ultimate  victory  which,  as  a  source  of 
holy  joy,  enabled  Him  to  endure  the  cross  and  to 
despise  the  shame  (lie  12  2).  In  the  disciples  the 
scene  must  have  wrought  a  new  faith  in  the  heaven- 
sent leadership  of  Jesus.  In  the  dark  days  which 
were  soon  to  come  upon  them  the  memory  of  the 
brightness  of  that  unforgettable  night  would  be  a 
stay  and  strength.  There  might  be  opposition,  but 
there  could  be  no  permanent  defeat  of  one  whose 
work  was  ratified  by  Moses,  by  Elijah,  by  God  Him- 
self. Indeed,  was  not  the  presence  of  Moses  and 
Elijah  a  pledge  of  immortality  for  all?  How  in  the 
face  of  such  evidence,  real  to  them,  however  it 
might  be  to  others,  could  they  ever  again  doubt 
the  triumph  of  life  and  of  Him  who  was  the  Lord  of 
life?  The  abiding  lesson  of  the  Transfiguration 
is  that  of  the  reality  of  the  unseen  world,  of  its 
nearness  to  us,  and  of  the  comforting  and  inspiring 
fact  that  "spirit  with  spirit  may  meet." 

The  transfigured  appearance  of  Jesus  may  have  owed 
something  to  tho  moonlight  on  the  snow  and  to  the 
drowsiness  of  the  disciples;  but  no  one  who  lias  ever 
seen  the  face  of  a  saint  fresh  from  communion  with  (<od, 
as  in  the  case  of  Moses  (Ex  34  2!t-.'i5)  and  of  Stephen 
(Acts  6  15),  will  have  any  difficulty  in  believing  that 


Transng.,  Mt.  of 
Treasure 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3006 


the  fi"ure  of  Jesus  was  irradiated  with  a  "light  that  never 
was  on  sea  or  land."  See  Tomms.  and  Lives  of  Christ; 
also  a  surest  ive  treatment  in  Westcott  s  Intro  to  I/K; 
Stmly  oft/if  G'»*/"/.s. 

(2)  Tlio  transfiguration  of  C'hrist  ians  is  accom- 
plished by  1li<'  renew  it  if?  of  the  mind  whereby,  in 
utter  abandonment  to  the  will  of  C.od,  the  disciple 
displays  the  mind  of  Christ  (Rom  12  2);  and  1  y 
that  intimate  fellowship  with  Cod,  through  which, 
as  with  unveiled  face  he  beholds  the  glory  of  the 
Lord,  lie  is  "transformed  into  the  same  image  from 
glory  to  glory,  even  as  from  the  Lord  the  Spirit" 
(2  Cor  3  18).  CHAKLKS  M.  STUAKT 

TRANSFIGURATION,  trans-fig-n-ra'shun, 
MOUNT  OF  (referred  to  as  the  "holy  mount"  in 
2  Pet  1  18):  Records  of  the  Transfiguration  are 
found  in  Mt  17  1  IT;  Mk  9  2  IT;  Lk  9  2S  IT. 
From  these  narratives  we  gather  that  .Jesus  went 
with  His  disciples  from  Bctlisaida  to  the  neighbor- 
hood of  Caesarca  Philippi,  where  Peter's  memorable 
confession  was  made.  Some  six  or  eight  days  later 
Jesus  went  up  into  a  high  mountain  to  pray,  taking 
with  Him  Peter,  .James  and  John.  There  He  was 
transfigured  before  them.  Descending  the  next 
day,  He  healed  a  demoniac  boy,  and  then  passed 
through  Calilce  to  Capernaum. 

It   is  quite  evident  that  the  tradition  placing  the  scene 

on   the    Mount  of   Olives   must   be   dismissed.      Another 

tradition,     dating     from     the     4th     cent., 

1     TJr.t  nii       identifies    the    mountain    with   Tabor.      In 

1.  1X  }-_y"~    the   art.    on   TABOK.    MOUNT,    reasons  are 
vet  Of  Tabor  stated     for     rejecting     this     tradition.      It 

was  indeed  possible;  in  the  time  indicated 
to  travel  from  ('aesarea  Philippi  to  Tabor;  but  there  is 
nothing  to  show  why  this  journey  should  have  been 
undertaken;  and,  the' mountain  to])  being  occupied  by  a 
town  or  village,  ti  suitable  spot  could  not  easily  have 
been  found. 

In  recent   years  the  opinion  has  become  general 

that   the  scene  must   be  placed  somewhere  on   Mt. 

Ilermon.     It     is     near     to     Caesarea 

2.  Mt.  Philippi.     It  is  the  mountain    />ar  c.r- 
Hermon         cclloicc  in  that  district   (Lk  9  2s).     It- 
was  easily  possible  in  the  time  to  make 

the  journey  to  Ildxliciyah.  and  up  the  lofty  steeps. 
The  sacred  associations  of  the  mountain  might  lend 
it  special  attractions  (Stanley,  »S  «nnl  I\  3(.)(.l).  This 
is  supported  by  the  transient  comparison  of  the 
celestial  splendor  with  the  snow,  where  alone  it 
could  be  seen  in  Pal  (ib,  400). 

It  seems  to  have  been  forgotten  that  Mt .  TTermon 
lay  beyond  the  boundaries  of  Pal,  and  that  the  dis- 
trict, round  its  base  was  occupied  by  Cent  lies  (//.//', 
II,  i,  133  f).  The  sacred  associations  of  the  moun- 
tain were  entirely  heathen,  and  could  have  lent,  it  no 
fit  ness  for  the  purpose  of  Jesus;  //o,s  chion,  "as  snow," 
in  Mk  9  3,  does  not  belong  to  the  original  text,  and 
therefore  lends  no  support  to  the  identification.  It 
was  evidently  in  pursuance  of  His  ordinary  custom 
that  Jesus  "went  up  into  the  mountain  to  pray" 
(Lk  9  28).  This  is  the  only  indication  of  His  pur- 
pose. It  is  not  suggested  that  His  object  was  to  be 
transfigured.  "As  lie  was  praying,"  the  glory  came. 
There  is  no  hint  that  He  had  crossed  the  border  of 
Pal;  and  it  is  not  easy  to  see  why  in  the  circum- 
stances lie  should  have  made  this  journey  and  toil- 
some ascent  in  heathen  territory.  Next  morning 
as  usual  He  went  down  again,  and  was  met  by  a 
crowd  that  was  plainly  Jewish.  The  presence  of 
"the  scribes"  is  sufficient  proof  of  this  (Mk  9  It,). 
Where  was  such  a  crowd  to  come  from  in  this 
gentile  district?  Matthew  in  effect  ^says  that  the 
healing  of  the  demoniac  took  place  in  Galilee  (Mt 
17  22).  The  case  against  Alt.  Ilermon  seems  not 
less  conclusive  than  that  against  Tabor. 

The  present  writer  has  ventured  to  suggest  an 
identification  which  at  least  avoids  the  difficulties 
that  beset  the  above  (Expos  T,  XVIII,  333  f). 


Among  the  mountains  of  Upper  Galilee  Jcbcl  Jfr- 
»tuk  is  esp.  conspicuous,  its  shapely  form  rising 

full  -1,000  ft.  above  the  sea.  It  is  the 
3.  Jebel  highest  mountain  in  Pal  proper,  and 
Jermuk  is  quite  fitly  described  as  /in/Melon. 

("high").  It  stands  to  the  \V.  over 
against  the  Ktifol  uplands,  separated  from  them  by 


$afed  and  Jebel  J>n, 


a  spacious  valley,  in  the  bottom  of  which  runs  the 
tremendous  gorge,  Wadij  Ltinnln.  It  is  by  far  1  he 
most  striking  feature  in  all  the  Galilean  landscape. 
The  summit  commands  a  magnificent  view,  barred 
only  to  the  S.\Y.  by  other  mountains  of  the  range. 
It  rises  from  the  midst  of  a  district  which  then  sup- 
ported a  large  population  of  Jews,  with  such  im- 
portant Jewish  centers  as  Kcfr  Bikini,  Gishcala, 
Mi  iron,  etc,  around  its  base.  Remote  and  lonely 
as  it.  is,  the  summit  was  just  such  a  place  as  Jesus 
might  have  chosen  for  prayer.  It  was  compara- 
tively easy  to  reach,  and  might  be  comfortably 
climbed  in'  the  evening.  Then  on  His  descent  next 
day  the  crowd  might  easily  assemble  from  the 
country  and  the  villages  near  by.  How  long  Our 
Lord  stayed  near  Caesarea  Philippi  after  the  con- 
versation recorded  in  Mt  16  2 Iff  we  do  not  know. 
From  Jinn  ids  to  (lixhculn,  e.g.  one  could  walk  on 
foot  without  fatigue  in  a  couple  of  days.  If  a  little 
time  were  spent  in  the  Jewish  villages  passed  on 
the  way,  the  six  days,  or  Luke's  "about  eight 
davs,"  are  easily  accounted  for.  From  this  place 
to  Capernaum  He  would  "pass  through  Galilee" 
(Mk  9  30).  W-  EWIXG 

TRANSFORM,  trans-form'  (Horn  12  2;  RV 
2  Cor  3  18  for  |j.eTa(iopc|>6o(j.cu,  metamoTphoomai, 
and  AV  2  Cor  11  13. 14. la  for  |AETCurxil(xaTitaj, 

itirlnxchcinntizo,  RV  "fashion"):  The  comms.  often 
explain  the  former  word  as  connoting  a  change  of 
nature,  while  the  latter  refers  only  to  the  appear- 
ance, but  this  distinction  is  probably  fanciful. 

TRANSGRESSION,  < rans-gresh'un :  From 
"transgress,"  to  pass,  over  or  beyond;  to  overpass, 
as  any  rule  prescribed  as  the  limit  of  duty;  to  break 
or  violate,  as  a  law,  civil  or  moral;  the  act  of  trans- 
gressing; the  violation  of  a  law  or  known  principle 
of  rectitude;  breach  of  command;  offence;  crime; 
sin.  In  the  OT  7CE  ,  pu>hrt\  occurs  SO  t,  rendered 
in  all  VSS  by  "transgression."  Its  meaning  is 
"rebellion";  see  REBELLION.  The  word  "rebellion" 
differs  from  this  word  in  that  it  may  be  in  the  heart , 
though  no  opportunity  should  be  granted  for  its 
manifestation:  "An  evil  man  seeketh  only  rebellion' 
(Prov  17  11).  Here  the  wise  man  contemplates 
an  evil  heart,  looking  for  an  excuse  or  opportunity 
to  rebel. 

The  XT  uses  irapdpaa-is.  pardbasis,  "trespass":  "The 
law  was  added  because  of  transgressions  (Ual 

3    19)  •    "Where  there  is  no  law.  neither  is  then;  trans- 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Transfig.,  Mt.  of 
Treasure 


fjri'ssiou"  (Koni  4  l-~»:  "fur  the  redempl  ion  of  UP- 
transgressions  that  were  under  tin-  lirst  covenant"  (lie 
9  15). 

DAVID  ROBERTS  DI.NCAN 

TRANSLATION,  trans-la'shun:  Tin- vh.  "trans- 
late" is  found  once  in  the  ( )T  ('2  S  3  10  AV,  in  the 
sense  of  "to  transfer")  and  3  f  in  (lie  NT  (Col  1 
13,  fjx0iffTij/j.i,  inc!li'islcnii,  where*  it  means  "!o  trans- 
fer"; twice  in  Ho  11  />,  whore  it  lias  the  quasi- 
technical  sense  of  removing  one  from  the  earthly 
to  the  lieavenly  state  without,  the  intervening  ex- 
perience- of  death). 

The  noun  "translation"  occurs  only  in  He  11  .">, 
^erdtffo-is,  ///r/«'///r,s/.s,  \vhero  it  refers  to  the  transi- 
tion, the  general  nature  of  which  lias  just  been  de- 
scribed in  connection  with  the  vb.  With  their 
customary  reserve  in  regard  to  such  matters,  the 
Scriptures  simply  record  the  fact  of  Enoch's  trans- 
lation without  commenting  either  upon  the  attend- 
ant circumstances,  or  upon  the  nature  of  the  change 
involved  in  his  experience.  Doubtless  what-  Paul 
says  in  1  Cor  15  f)l.;">2  applied  in  the  case;  of 
Enoch  and  also  in  that  of  Elijah  (2  K  2  11). 

.      .  W.    M.    Me'PlIEKTKUS 

TRAP  (il'pTa  ,  mukesh;  Q-i\pa.,  tkfra,  lit,  "hunting," 
used  metaphorically  in  Pss  and  Rom  as  "trap";: 
Any  of  the  methods  for  taking  birds;  see  SNAKK; 
NET;  Cix,  etc.  It  is  probable  that  a  trap  was  more; 
particularly  a  hole  in  the  ground  covered  with 
twigs,  concealed  by  leaves  and  baited  with  food. 
Such  devices  were  common  in  taking  the  largest 
animals  and  may  have  been  used  with  birds  also. 
Trap  is  mentioned  frequently  in  connection  with 
snare  and  in  such  manner  as  to  indicate!  that  they 
were  different  devices;  "Know  for  a  certainly  that 
Jeh  your  Cod  will  no  more  drive  these  nations  from 
out  of  your  sight ;  but  they  shall  be  a  snare  and  a  trap 
unto  you"  (Josh  23  13).  Another  such  reference 
will  be  found  in  Ps  69  22: 

"Let  their  table  before  them  become  a  snare; 
And  when  they  are  in  peace,  let  it,  become  a  trap." 

This  is  quoted  in  Rom  11  9: 

"Let  their  table,  be  made  a  snare,  and  a  trap, 
And  a  stumbling  block,  and  a  recompense  unto  them." 

An  instance  where  a  trap  alone  is  referred  to  can 
l)e  found  in  Jer  5  20:  "They  set  a  trap,  they  catch 
men."  Isa  (42  22)  uses  this  expression,  "snared  in 
holes."  This  might  mean  that  a  snare  was  placed 
in  a  hole,  or  that  the  hole  was  the  snare  to  lure  bird 
or  animal  to  its  death.  The  former  proposition  is 
sustained  by  Job,  who  says,  "A  noose  is  hid  for  him 
in  the  ground,  and  a  trap  for  him  in  the  way"  (18 
10).  This  tr  appears  as  if  it  were  reversed  and 
should  read,  "A  trap  is  hid  for  him  in  the  ground 
a,nd  a  noose  in  the  way." 

GENE  STRATTON-PORTEB 

TRAVAIL,  tniv'al  ("^ ,  yaladh  [Cen  35  10,  etc], 
b^n,  hal,  b^n  fill,  [properly  "writhe,"  Job  15  20, 
etc];  ciSiv,  Odin  [classical  ddis]  [Mt  24  S,  etc],  <o8ivco, 
o'/mo  [Sir  19  11,  etc;  Gal  4  19,  etc]):  "Travail" 
and  its  derivatives  are  used  in  the  primary  sense 
of  the  labor  of  childbirth,  descriptive  of  the  actual 
cases  of  Rachel  (Gen  35  10),  Tamar  (Gen  38  27), 
Ichabod's  mother  (1  S  4  19),  and  the  apocalvptic 
woman  clothed  with  the  sun  (Rev  12  2).  In  the 
majority  of  passages,  however,  "travail"  is  used 
figuratively,  to  express  extreme  and  painful  sorrow 
(9  t  in  Jer),  "as  of  a  woman  in  travail."  It  is  also 
employed  in  the  sense  of  irksome  and  vexatious 
business  (0  t  in  Eccl,  where  it  is  the  rendering  of 
the  word  \nyan).  In  the  same  book  "travail"  is 
used  to  express  the  toil  of  one's  daily  occupation 
(4  4.0),  where  it  is  the  tr  of  *ainal.  In  three  places 
(Ex  18  8;  Nu  20  14;  Lam  3  5)  where  AV  has 
"travel"  RV  has  changed  it  to  "travail,"  as  in  these 
passages  the  word  flunk  refers  to  the  sense  of 


weariness  and  toil,  rather  than  to  the  idea  of  jour- 
neying (in  AV  the  spellings  "travel"  and  "travail" 
were  used  indiscriminately;  cf  Sir  19  1 1 ;  31  ;"». 
The  sorrows  which  are  the  i'niils  of  wickedness  are 
compared  to  the  pain  of  travail  in  Job  15  20  (///7V) 
and  Ps  7  11-  (ljal>/nil),  I  he  word  used  here  meaning 
the  torture  or  twisting  pains  of  labor;  see  also  the 
fanciful  employment,  of  "travail"  in  Sir  19  11. 

In  the  NT  the  travail  of  childbirth  is  used  as  the 
figure  of  the  painful  and  anxious  struggle;  against  the 
evils  of  the  world  in  the  soul's  efforts  to  attain  the 
higher  ideals  of  the  Christian  life  (Jn  16  21  \t>kt<~>\\ 
Horn  8  22;  Gal  4  27; ;  twice,  however,  it,  is  the 
rendering  of  inuclilhnx,  the  ordinary  word  for  "toil," 
"hardship"  or  "distress"  (1  Thess  2  9;  2  Thess 
3  S).  See  BIRTH;  LAHOU. 

Au;x.  MACALISTKR 

TRAVELLER,  trav'el-er:  Jgs  5  OforPQ-r:  !f?n, 
lial/ikh  n'thlhhdlt,  "goers  on  paths";  2  S  12  4  for 
^n,  fu-'lrkh,  lit,  "a  going";  Job  31  32  for  rPX  , 
'drah,  participle  of  a  vb.  meaning  "to  wander";  Sir 
26  12;  42  3  for  bSonropos,  luxioiporua,  "one  making 
a  way."  See  WAYFAUINCJ  MAN. 

TREAD,  trcd.     See  \Yi.\u  PRESS. 

TREASON,  treYn:  The  tr  of  Ttpp  ,  kesher,  in 
EV  1  K  16  20;  2  K  11  11  2  Ch  23  1.3.'  AY.s-//rr 
(from  "ViTp  ;  Ifashar,  "to  bind")  means  "a  conspiracy" 
(2  S  15  12;  2  K  12  20,  etc),  and  the  tr  "treason" 
is  due  to  AV's  love  of  variety. 

TREASURE,  trozh'iir,  TREASURER,  trexh'ur-er, 
TREASURY,  trezh'ur-i  ("ISIS,  'dear,  T:3 ,  g'naz, 
"3 ,  gcnez,  Tf"5  ,  ganzukh,  "CH  ,  fwxoi,  p'E'Ip'Q  , 
nidtmun,  "jSCT? ,  mixk'nah,  ]12Z12 ,  mikhman, 
"P.ny  ,  *athudh,  "jSTW  ,  sap/nut;  v^ta)  yiiza,  0T]a-avp6s, 
thcsauros) : 

/•  In  the  OT. — The  Eng.  word  "treasure"  has  in 

the  OT  at  least  five  somewhat  distinct  meanings  as 

expressed    in    the    words:     "treasure," 

1.  Treas-       (fnaz  (Aram.)  or  ycitcz  (ITeb),  usually 
ure  meaning  "the  thing  stored";  trd  "treas- 
ures"   in    Ezr  6   1,    but   in    5   17   and 

7  20  trri    "treasure-house":     "search   made   in   the 
king's  treasure-house."     In  Est  3  9;    4  7  the  Heb 
form  is  tr'1  "treasury,"  as  is  yunzukk  in  1  Ch  28  11. 

"Storehouse,"  not  the  thing  stored  but  the  place 

of  storage;    'ocar  means  depository,  cellar,  garner, 

armory,    store   or   treasure-house.     In 

2.  Store-        several  places  it  ought  to   be  trd  by 
house  some  of  these;  words.     It  is  the  most 

frequent  word  for  treasure.  ERV 
and  ARV  both  translate  in  some;  instances  by  other 
words,  e.g.  1  K  7  51,  "treasuries  of  the  house  of 
Jeh,"  so  also  2  Ch  5  1 ;  "treasury"  in  Xeh  7  70. 
71,  "gave  to  the  treasury  a  thousand  claries  of  gold"; 
in  Job  38  22,  "treasuries  of  the  snow"  (cf  Prov 

8  21;    Jer  10  13;    51  10;    E/r  2  09). 
"Treasure"  or  something  concealed.     There  are 

3  Heb  words  with  this  meaning  and  all  in  AV  trd 
"treasure."      (1)     Miit-n/utt,    which    lit. 

3.  Hidden      means  "a  secret   storehouse"  and  so  a 
Riches  secreted      valuable',      usually      money 

burieel,  and  so  hidden  riches  of  any 
kind,  hid  treasures:  "treasure1  in  your  sacks"  (Gen 
43  23);  "dig  for  it  more  than  for  hiel  treasures" 
(Job  3  21);  "search  lor  her  as  for  hiel  treasure's" 
(Prov  2  4);  "We  have  stores  hidden  in  the  field, 
of  wheat,"  etc  (Jer  41  S).  (2)  Mikhman,  treasure 
as  hidden,  used  only  in  Did  11  43:  "have  power 
over  the  treasures  of  gold  and  silver."  (3)  Sdpfian, 
meaning  hielden  treasure  or  valuable's  concealed: 
"hidden  treasures  of  the  sand"  (Dt  33  19). 


Treasury 
Tree  of  Life 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3008 


Perhaps  the  strength  of  riches  mid  so  treasure, 
the  Heb  word  being /IOJCH,  from  a  root  meaning  to 

hoard  or  lay  up:  "In  the  house  of  the 
4.  Strength  righteous  is  much  treasure"  (Prov  15 

0);  "Thev  take  treasure  and  precious 
things"  (Ezk  22  2f>). 

"Something  prepared,"  made  ready,  the  lie!) 
word  being  *dthud/i,  meaning  "prepared,"  '"ready," 

therefore  something  of  value  and  so 
6.  Some-  treasure:  "have  robbed  their  troas- 
thing  Pre-  ures,"  fortifications  or  other  things 
pared  "made  ready"  (Isa  10  13). 

In  the  OT  tho  Heb  word  most  often  tr'  " treasure" 
is  'df dr.  It  occurs  in  the  sin^.  us  follows:  Dt  28  1-; 
1  Oi  29  8;  N'eh  10  3S;  1's  17  14;  135  4;  Prov  15 
10;  21  -}0;  Keel  2  S:  Isa  33  0;  Dnl  1  2;  Hos  13 
15;  in  the  pi.:  J)t  32  34;  1  K  14  i-'O:  15  IS;  2  K  12 
is;  14  14;  16  s;  18  15;  20  13.15;  24  13,  etc. 

The  same  word  is  in  AV  trd  "treasuries"  in  1  Ch 
9  20;  28  12;  2  Ch  32  27;  Neh  13  12.13;  Ps 
135  7;  and  "treasury"  in  Josh  6  19.24;  Jer  38  11. 

//.  In  the  NT. — There  are  two  words  tr'1  "treas- 
ure": (idzd  is  of  Pers  origin,  meaning  "treasure." 
Found  only  once  in  Acts  8  27  con- 

1.  Gaza         cerning  the  Ethiopian  "who  was  over 

all  her  [Queen  Candace's]  treasure." 
In  the  compound  ya£o(pv\dKLov,  gazophuldkion, 
"guarding  of  yuzn,"  the  same  word  appears  and  the 
compound  is  tr'1  "treasury"  in  Mk  12  41.43  j|  Lk 
21  1;  Jn  8  20.  See  TEMPLE;  TREASURY  (OF 
TEMPLE). 

The   word   tficstniros,  means  lit.   a    "deposit,"  so 

wealth    and    treasure.     Evidently    throughout    the 

NT  it  has  a  twofold  usage  as  doserib- 

2.  The-          ing  (1)  material  treasure,  either  money 
sauros  or  other  valuable  material  possession, 

and  (.2)  spiritual  treasure,  e.g.  "like 
unto  treasure  hid  in  a  held"  (.Mr  13  44);  "good 
treasure  of  the  heart"  (Mt  12  3.")).  Other  refer- 
ences to  material  treasure  are  Mt  6  21;  13  52;  Lk 
12  21.34,  etc.  References  to  spiritual  treasure  are 
Mt  19  21;  Mk  10  21;  Lk  6  45;  12  33;  18  22; 
pi.  Mt  6  20;  Col  2  3. 

In  Mt  27  G  the  word  for  "treasury"  is  /cop/Saras, 
korbandx;  of  RVm  and  see  COBBAN. 

Treasurer  p?S  ,  'ajw,  "Q~;l ,  gf<Uidbfidr,  "13p  , 
gizbdr,  ")DD ,  sakluin;  otKov6(j.os,  oikono?nos):  (I) 
'A^ar,  meaning  primarily  "to  store  up,"  and  hence 
one  who  lays  up  in  store,  i.e.  a  "treasurer":  "I 
made  treasurers  over  the  treasuries"  (Neh  13  13j. 
(2)  Gedhabhar  (Aram.),  used  only  in  Dnl  3  2.3: 
"treasurers,"  named  with  judges  and  counsellors  as 
recognized  officials.  (3)  Gizbdr,  used  in  Ezr  7  21 
(Aram.)  and  equivalent  in  Ezr  1  8  (Heb):  "treas- 
urers beyond  the  river"  and  "Mithredath  the 
treasurer."  (4)  tidkhan,  primarily  meaning  "one 
who  ministers  to,"  and  hence  a  keeper  of  treasure, 
treasurer:  "(let  thee  unto  this  treasurer"  (Isa  22 
15).  Perhaps  the  idea  of  steward  is  here  intended. 
(5)  Oikonomos,  by  AVtr'1  "chamberlain,"  more  prop- 
erly in  ARV  tr'1  "treasurer":  "Erastus  the  treasurer 
of  the  city  saluteth  you"  (Rom  16  23). 

WILLIAM  EDWARD  RAFFETY 

TREASURY,  trezh'ur-i   (OF  TEMPLE)    ("iriX , 
'ofar,  usually;    ^!?3  ,   ganzakh,   1  Ch  28  11;   va£° 
4>v\aKiov,  gazophuldkion,  Koppavds,  kor- 
1.  Origin       bands):    The  need  of  a   "treasury"  in 
of  the  connection  with  the  house  of  Jeh  would 

Treasury  early  be  felt  for  the  reception  of  the 
offerings  of  the  people,  of  tithes,  and  of 
the  spoils  of  war  dedicated  to  Jeh.  Already  in 
Josh  6  19.24,  therefore,  we  read  of  a  "treasury  of 
the  house  of  Jeh,"  into  which  "the  silver  and  gold, 
and  vessels  of  brass  and  iron,"  taken  at  Jericho, 
were  brought.  In  the  reign  of  David,  and  in  his 
plans  for  the  future  temple,  great  prominence  is 


given  to  the  "treasuries."  In  1  Ch  26  20  ff  are 
given  the  names  of  (hose  who  were  over  "the 
treasures  of  the  house  of  (  lod,"  and  over  "the  treas- 
ures of  the  dedicated  things"  ("the  spoil  won  in 
battles,"  ver  27),  the  latter  being  applied  "to  repair 
the  house  of  Jeh." 

In   David's  plans  for  Solomon  the  "treasuries" 

(ganzakklm)  are  mentioned  with  the  "porch,"  "the 

houses,"  the  "upper  rooms,"  the  "inner 

2.  The  chambers"  of  the  Temple  (1  Ch  28  11); 
Solomonic      and   the  same   distinction  is   made  of 
Temple  "the  treasuries   ['dfrdtft]  of   the  house 

of  (lod,"  and  "the  treasuries  of  the 
dedicated  things"  (ver  12).  In  the  accounts  of  the 
actual  building  of  the  Temple,  "treasuries"  are  not 
mentioned,  but  subsequent  notices  give  ample  evi- 
dence of  their  existence.  In  the  narratives  of  the 
repeated  plunderings  of  the  Temple  (see  TEMPLK), 
constant  allusion  is  made  to  the  carrying  away  of 
"the  treasures  of  the  house  of  Jeh"  and  "the  treas- 
ures of  the  king's  house"  or  palace  (1  Iv  14  2(5; 
15  I/US;  2  K  12  IS;  14  14;  16  8;  18  15;  24  13). 
In  the  episode  of  Jehoash's  repair  of  the  Temple 
(2  K  12;  2  Ch  24),  we  have  a  refreshing  glimpse 
of  the  presence  and  uses  of  the  treasury;  but  this 
brighter  gleam  is  soon  swallowed  up  again  in  dark- 
ness. Of  the  larger  store-chambers  we  get  a  glance 
in  Jer,  where  we  are  told  that  "the  house;  of  the 
king"  was  "under  the  treasury"  (38  11),  i.e.  on  a 
lower  level  under  the  south  wall. 

The    Book    of    Neh    introduces    us    to    treasury- 

chambers  in  the  second  temple  —  now  used  for  the 

voluntary    offerings     (tithes)     of    the 

3.  The  people  —  corn,  and  wine,  and  oil  (Neh 
Second  13  4  if;      of     Mai  3   10).     A     certain 
Temple           Meshullam  had  repaired  the  city  wall 

"over  against  his  chamber"  (Neh  3 
30),  and  he,  witli  other  Levites,  kept  "the  watch 
at  the  storehouses  of  the  gates"  (12  25).  These 
gates  were  probably  gates  of  exit  on  the  southern 
side,  as  in  the  llerodian  temple. 

In    Herod's    temple    the    name    "treasury"    was 

specially  given  to  the  "court  of  the  women"   (see 

TK.MPLK,    HKROD'S),    where    were    13 

4.  Herod's    trumpet-shaped   boxes  for  the  recep- 
Temple  in      tion  of  the  offerings  of  the  worshippers. 
the  NT  It  was  hero  that   Jesus  saw  the  poor 

widow  cast  in  her  two  mites  (Mk  12 
41;  Lk  21  1-4),  and  the  court  is  expressly  named 
the  "treasury"  in  Jn  8  20:  "These  words  spake  he 
in  the  treasury,  as  he  taught  in  the  temple."  It  is 
a  legitimate!  deduction  that  this  court  was  the  ordi- 
nary scene  of  tho  Lord's  ministry  when  teaching  in 
tho  temple.  See  also  TREASURE,  TREASUKER, 
TREASTRY.  W.  SHAW  CALDECOTT 


TREATY,  tre/ti  (m?  ,  l/rith,  PP"!?  PH3  ,  k&rath 
b'nth,  "make  a  covenant,"  "league,"  "treaty"): 
Although  the  Israelites  were  forbidden  to  make 
treaties,  or  enter  into  covenant,  with  the  Canaan- 
it  es  because  of  the  risk  thereby  involved  of  religious 
apostasy  and  moral  contamination  (Ex  23  32;  34 
12;  Dt  7  2;  Jgs  2  2),  they  were  so  situated  in  the 
midst  of  the  nations  that  treaty  relations  of  some 
sort  with  their  neighbors  were  from  time  to  time 
inevitable.  After  the  rise  of  the  monarchy,  treaties 
were  common.  David  and  Solomon  had  friendly 
relations  with  Hiram,  king  of  Tyre  (1  K  5  15  ff); 
Asa,  to  rid  himself  of  the  hostile  approaches  of 
Baasha,  king  of  Israel,  entered  into  a  league  with 
Ben-hadad  of  Syria,  which  the  prophet  Hanani 
denounced  (2  Ch  16  Iff);  Ahab  entered  into  a 
similar  compact  with  Ben-hadad's  son  and  successor, 
and  set  him  at  liberty  when  he  was  his  prisoner  of 
war  (1  K  20  34);  and  at  a  later  time  Jehoshaphat 
joined  Ahab  in  an  expedition  against  Ben-hadad  II 
to  Ramoth-giload  in  which  Ahab  lost  his  life  (1  K 


MOO!) 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Treasury 
Tree  of  Life 


22).  Sometimes  with  Syria  :iti«l  neighboring  state's 
against  the  terrible-  Assyr  power,  and  some-times 
with  Egypt  against  Assyria  or  Babylon,  the  kings  of 
Israel  and  Juelah  entered  into  treaty  to  resist,  their 
advances  and  to  preserve  their  own  independence, 
(2  K  17  4;  II. ,s  711;  Isa  30  1).  Against  such 
alliances  the  prophets  raised  their  testimony  (Isa 
31  1;  Jer  27  :i  IT;.  See  also  WAR,  9;  HOME,  V,  1. 

T.   Niroi, 
TREE,  Ire.     See  BOTANY. 

TREE  OF  LIFE  (Z^n  }*? ,  Vf  hmjy7m;  £v\ov 
rfjs  i>f)s,  xillon  ttx  zot'K):  The  expression  "tree  of 
life"  occurs  in  four  groups  or  connections:  (1)  in 
the  story  of  theGardenof  Eden,  (2)  in  the  Proverbs 
of  the  Wise  Men,  (!ij  in  the  apocryphal  writings,  and 
(4)  in  the  Apocalypse  of  John. 

The  tree  was  in  the  midst  of  the  Garden,  and  its 
fruit  of  such  a  nature  as  to  produce  physical  im- 
mortality (Gen  2  ',);  3  22).  After 
1.  The  Tree  guiltily  partaking  of  the  tree  of  the 
of  Life  in  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  and  the 
the  Garden  sinful  tendency  having  thus  been  im- 
of  Eden  planted  in  their  natures,  the  man  and 
woman  are  driven  forth  from  the 
Garden  lest  they  should  eat  of  the  tree  of  life  and 
live  forever  (3  22).  The  idea  seems  to  be  that,  if 
they  should  eat  of  it  and  become  immortalized  in 
their  sinful  condition,  it  would  be  an  unspeakable 
calamity  to  them  and  their  posterity.  For  sinful 
beings  to  live  forever  upon  earth  would  be  incon- 
ceivably disastrous,  for  the  redemption  and  devel- 
opment of  the  race  would  be  an  impossibility  in 
that  condition.  Earth  would  soon  have  been  a  hell 
with  sin  propagating  itself  forever.  To  prevent 
such  a  possibility  they  were  driven  forth,  cherubim 
were  placed  at  the  entrance  of  the  Garden,  the 
flame  of  a  sword  revolving  every  way  kept  the  way 
ot  the  tree  of  life,  and  this  prevented  the  possibility 
of  man  possessing  a  physical  immortality.  It  is 
implied  that  they  had  not  vet  partaken  of 'this  tree 
and  the  opportunity  is  now  forever  gone.  Im- 
mortality must  be  reached  in  some  other  way. 

The  interpretation  of  the  story  is  a  standing 
problem.  Is  it  mythical,  allegorical,  or  historical? 
Opinions  vary  from  one  of  these  extremes  to  the 
other  with  all  degrees  of  difference  between.  In 
general,  interpreters  may  be  divided  into  three 
classes: 


the  sexual  relation  and  therefore;  the  datY-pah^'came. 
to  be  regarded  as  the;  tree-  of  life-,  anel  {he;  tre-e-  of  the 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil.  But  this  elilfe-re-nce  came; 
in  later  when  the  knowledge  e;f  its  e>rigin  be-came-  obscured 
le  calls  attention  to  the-  fact  that  the  sacre-d  palm  is 
,,'"  -m  the  sanctuary  of  Ea  at  Kridu.  All  such  inte-r- 

(2)  There  are  tlrnse  who  regard  the  entire  story  as 

t'n'ii  fVU°  V?'0  WAnlld,  'a(-tllall>'  imi'art  pliysical  immor- 
tality, the  other  the  knenvledgo  of  evil.  But  this  in- 
volves endless  difficulties  also,  requires  tremendous 
differences  between  the  laws  of  Nature-  then  anel  now, 
vast  differences  in  fruits,  men  anel  animals,  and  an 
equally  vast  difference,  in  God's  dealings  with  man. 

(3)  We  prefer  to  regard  it  as  a  pictorial-spiritual 
story,  the  representing  of  great  spiritual  facts  and 
religious   history  in   the  form  of   n   picture.     This 
is  the  usual  Bible  method.     It  was  constantly  em- 
ployed   by    the-    prophets,    anel    Jesus   continually 

pictured     great  spiritual  facts  by  means  of  mate- 
rial   objects.     Such    were    most    of    His    parables 


John's  Apoe-alypse  is  also  a  serie-s  of  pie-lures  repre- 
senting spiritual  and  moral  histeiry.  So  the-  tree 
of  life-  is  a,  pie-tun;  of  (lie-  glorious  pe>ssibilii  ies  whie-h 
lay  before  primitive;  man,  and  \vhi<  h  might  have- 
been  realizeel  by  him  had  ne>t  his  sin  and  sinful 
condition  pre-vente-d  it.  Geid's  inte-rvention  was 
a  great  mercy  to  the  human  race-.  Immortality 
in  sin  is  rende-red  impossible,  and  this  has  maefe 
possible  an  immortality  thnmgh  re-demptiem;  man 
at  first  is  pictured  as  neither  meirtal  nor  immortal, 
but  both  are-,  possible,  as  represented  by  the  two 
trees.  He  sinne-d  and  be-came  mortal,  and  then 
immortality  was  denied  him.  Ithassine-ebeen  made 
possible  in  a  much  higher  anel  nmre-  gleiriejus  way. 
This  picture  was  not  lost  to  Israel.  The;  "tree 
of  life-,"  became-  a  e-ommon  poe-tic  simile  f  ore  pre -sent 
that  which  may  be-  a  source-  of  great 
2.  A  Com-  blessing.  In  the  Book  of  Prov  the 
mon  Poetic  ceme-e-pi  iem  deepens  from  a  phvsie-al 
Simile  semive;  of  a  mere  physical  immortality 

to  a  moral  anel  spirit  ual  source-  of  a  full 
life,  mental,  moral  and  spiritual,  which  will  poten- 
tially last  forever.  _  Life,  lemg  life,  is  here  attribute-el 
te>  a  certain  possession  e»r  enialit  v  of  mind  and  he-art. 
\Visdom  is  a  source-  and  supply  of  life  le)  man.  This 
wisdom  is  essentially  of  a  moral  quality,  and  this 
moral  force  brings  the  wheile  man  into' right  re-la- 
tions  with  the;  source  of  life.  He-ne-e  a  man  truly 
lives  by  reason  of  this  relationship  (Prov  3  IS). 
The  allusion  in  this  verse  is  doubtless  to  Ge-n  2  <J; 
3  22.  An  expression  very  similar  is  Prov  10  11, 
where  the  mouth  of  the  righteous  is  declared  to  be 
a  fountain  of  life.  Good  words  are  a  power  for 
good,  and  hence  proeluce  ge>od  living.  Prov  11  30 
has  a  like  thought:  "The  fruit  of  the  right e-ous  is  a 
tree-  of  life,"  i.e.  the-  good  life  is  a  seiuree-  of  geieid  in 
its  influence  on  othe-rs.  Pretv  13  12  says:  "Hope 
deferred  maketh  the  he-art  sick;  but  when  the 
desire  cometh,  it  is  a  tre-e  of  life-."  The-  meaning 
seems  to  be  that  the-  grutinVat  ion  of  goeiel  anel  lawful 
desires  produces  those  pleasures  and  activities  which 
make  up  life  anel  its  blessings.  Prov  15  4  says:  "A 
gentle-  tongue  is  a  tree  of  life,"  i.e.  its  beneficent 
influences  help  others  to  a  better  life. 

The  apocryphal  writings  contain  a  few  references  to  the 

tree'  of  life,  but  use  the-  phrase'  in  a  different  sense-  fremi 

that  in  which  it  is  used  in  the  canonical 

3.  The  books:      1  hey  shall  have  the-  tree;  of  life  fe>r 
Apocryphal     an  ointment  of  sweet  savour  "  (2  Ksel  2  12). 
WHtinac          fcclus  1  20  has  only  an  indirect  reference 

te>  it.     Ethiopia  Enoch,  in  his  picture  of  the 

Messianic  age-,  uses  his  imagination  ve-rv 

free-ly  in  describing  it:    "It  has  a  fragrance  be-yonel  all 

fragrances;    its  leaves  anel  bloom  and  we>e>d  wither  not 

forever;    its  fruit   is   beautiful   and  ivscmblcs   the  elate- 

palm"    (24  4).      Slavonic    Knoe'h  spe-aks   thus-    "In   the 

midst  there  is  the  tree  of  life  ....  and  this  tre-e- cannot 

be-  described  for  its  excellence  and  sweet  odeir"    (8  'i) 

Esd  describing  the  future  says :  "Fnto  you  is  paradise 

opened,  the  tree  of  life  is  planted"  (8  52). 

The  Apocalypse  of  John  re-fe-rs  to  the  tre-e  of  life 

in    three   places    (Rev  2  7;     22  2.14).     These    are 

pictures    e)f    the    glorious    possibilities 

4.  The  of  life  which  await  the  redeemed  soul. 
Book  of          In  Ezekiel's  picture  of  the  ieleal  state 
Rev                  and    the:    Ale-ssianic    age-,    there-    flows 

from  the-  sanctuary  of  God  a  life-giving 
river  having  tree's  upon  its  banks  on  either  siele, 
yielding  fruit  every  month.  The  leaf  of  this  tree 
would  not  wither,  nor  its  fruit  fail,  because  that 
which  gave  moisture  to  its  roe>ts  floweel  from  the 
sanctuary.  This  fruit  was  for  food  and  the  leaves 
for  medicine  (47  12).  Very  similar  to  this  and 
probably  an  expansion  of  it  is  John's  picture  in 
Rev:  "To  him  that  ove-rcometh,  to  him  \\ill  I  give 
to  eat  of  the;  tree  of  life,  which  is  in  the  Paradise  of 
God"  (2  7).  This  means  that  all  the  possibilities 
of  a  complete  and  glorious  life  are  open  to  the  one 
that  overcomes,  anel  by  overcoming  is  prepared  to 
become  immortal  in  a  vastly  higher  sense  than  was 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trees,  Goodly 
Trine  Immersion 

possible  1<>  primitive  man.  In  his  picture  of  the 
New  Jerus,  tin;  river  of  water  of  life  has  the  tree 
of  life  on  either  side  (22  2).  Its  leal  never  fades 
and  its  monthly  fruitage  never  fails.  Food  and 
medicine  1  hese  are  1  o  be  to  t lie  world,  supplied  lively 
to  all  that  all  may  enjoy  the  highest  possibilities  ot 
activity  and  blessedness  which  can  come  to  those 
who  are  i'i  right  relationships  with  C-od  and  Jesus 
Christ  In  22  14  John  pronounces  a,  blessing  on 
those  who  wash  Uieir  robes,  who  lead  the  clean  anil 
pure  Christ  life,  for  they  thereby  have  the  right  and 
privilege  of  entering  into  the  gates  of  the  City  and 
partaking  of  the  tree  of  life.  This  means  not  only 
immortal  existence,  but  such  relations  with  Jesi 
Christ  and  the  church  that,  each  has  unrestricted 
access  to  all  that  is  good  in  t  lie  universe  ot  Uoci. 
The  limit  is  his  own  limited  capacity. 

JAMKS  JosiAH   RKEVE 
TREES,  GOODLY.     See  C.oom.Y  Tiu.i.-. 

TREES,  SHADY,  shfi'di.     See  LOTUS  TUF.KS. 
TREES,  THICK.     See  THICK  THKKS. 
TRENCH,  trench,  trensh.     See  SIKCK,  (•">),  (> 

TRESPASS,  tres'pas:  To  pass  over,  to  go  beyond 
one's  right  in  place  or  act;  to  injure  another:  to 
do  that  which  annoys  or  inconveniences  another; 
any  violation  of  law,  civil  or  moral;  it  may  relate 
toaperson,  a  community,  or  the  state,  or  to  offences 
against  Ciod.  The  Hcb  COX,  'uxtulni.  ("sin"),  is 
used  very  frequently  in  the  OT  when  the  trespass 
is  a  violation  of  law  of  which  Cod  is  the  author. 
The  C.r  word  is  irapdirrufM,  pardptorna. 

In  the  OT  an  offering  was  demanded  when  the 
offence  was  against  C.od:  u  female  lamb;  in  other 
cases,  according  to  the  magnitude  of  the  wrong,  a 
ram  or  a  goat ;  the  offering  was  to  be  preceded  by  a 
confession  by  the  one  committing  the  trespass. 
the  trespass 'was  against  a  human  being,  the  wrong- 
doer must  make  it  right  with  the  person,  and  when 
reconciliation  should  have  been  effected,  then  the 
offering  for  sin  was  to  be  made.  See  under  SACRI- 
FICE INT  THH  OT,  "Trespass  Offering."  If  a  person's 
property  has  been  injured,  then  the  trespasser  shall 
add  a  fifth  to  the  value  of  th(-  properly  injured 
and  give  that  to  the  injured  party  (.Lev  6  5).  Zac- 
chaeus,  wanting  to  make  full  restitution,  went 
beyond  the  demands  of  the  Law  (Lk  19  1-9). 

The  NT  teaching  on  the  .subject  is,  first  to  be 
reconciled  to  the  brother  and  then  offer,  or  worship 
(Mt  5  2321).  In  all  cases,  also,  the  offended  party 
must  forgive  if  the  offender  shall  .say,  "I  repent" 
(Mt  6  14;  Eph  4  32;  Col  3  13).  We  have  been 
alienated  by  our  trespasses  from  C.od  Kph  2  1 
It  was  the  Father's  good  will  to  reconcile  all  to 
Himself  through  Christ  (Col  1  20-22).  \\  e  must 
be  reconciled  to  Ciod  (2  Cor  5  20.21).  This  being 
done  our  trespasses  shall  be  forgiven  and  we  shall 
be  justified.  DAVID  ROBERTS  DUNGAN 


TRESPASS  OFFERING. 
OT. 


See  SACRIFICE  IN 


See    COURTS,    JUDICIAL;     SAN-- 


TRIAL,   t  ri 

UK  I)  KIN. 

TRIAL  OF  JESUS.  See  JKSUS,  ARREST  AND 
TRIAL  OF. 

TRIBE,  tiib  (in  the  OT  always  for  nip1)?  ,  mnttch, 
1S3  t,  or  uIlTZJ,  shcbhet,  145  t,  also  spelled  "Jilt1 ; 
shebhet;  Axam.Vy® ,  sh'bhat[Vzr  6  17]):  Both  words 
mean  "staff,"  and'  perhaps  "company  led  by  chief 
with  staff"  (OHL,  (541)  is  the  origin  of  the  meaning 


''tribe."  In  the  Apoc  and  NT  always 
pliulf,  from  <pvu,  i>lit'«~>,  ''beget,"  with  S 
dotk-kdphidon,  "twelve  tribes,"  in  Acts  26  7.  < /f 
the  two  Heb  words,  xhchlict  appears  to  be  consider- 
ably the  older,  and  is  used  in  Ps  74  2;  Jer  10  1(5; 
51  V.)  of  the  whole  people  of  Israel,  and  in  Nil  4  IS; 
Jgs  20  12  (RVin);  1  S  9  21  (RVm)  of  subdivisions 
of  a  tribe  (but  the  text  of  most  of  these  six  verses  is 
suspicious).  Further,  in  Isa  19  13,  shcblict  is  used 
of  the  "tribes"  (nomes?)  of  Egypt  and  phule  m  Mt 
24  30  of  "all  the  tribes  of  the  earth,"  but  otherwise 
xhrhlirl,  wdttrli  and  i>lnilc  refer  exclusively  to  the 
tribes 'of  Israel.  In  2  S  7  7  for  shibh'te,  "tribes, 
read  .s//o/>//'7(",  "judges"  icf  UVm). 

BniTo.N  SCOTT  EASTON 

TRIBULATION,  1  rib-n-lfi'shun  ("1?  ,  ytr,  ~\X  ,  car, 
••staid  "  "narrow,"  "pent  up'';  cf  Nu  22  20):  Closely 
pressed,  as  of  seals   (Job  41  15[7]);    ot 
1    In  the        streams  pent  up  (Isa  59  9m);  of  strength 
OT  limited  (Prov  24  10,  "small").     Hence, 

figuratively,  of  straitened  circumstan- 
ces' variouslv  rendered  "affliction,"  "tribulation," 
"distress"  (Dt  4  30;  Job  15  24;  30  12;  Ps  4  2; 
18  7-  32  7;  44  11,  etc;  78  42;  102  3;  106  44;  119 
1  13;  Isa  26  1(5;  30  20;  Hos  5  l.v,  E/k  30  16).  Fre- 
quently the  fern,  form  (""?£,  cam/;)  is  similarly 
rendeml  "tribulation"  (Jgs  10  14  AV;  1  S  10  10 
VV-  26  24);  in  other  places  "distress,"  "affliction 
(Oen  42  21;  Ps  120  1;  Prov  11  X;  2  Ch  20  9;  Isa 
63  9;  Jer  15  11;  Jon  2  2;  Nah  1  «.);  Zee  10  11). 
The  (lr  is  0\i-^^,  //i /?/;*/*,  a  "pressing  together' 
(as  of  grapes),  squeezing  or  pinching  (from  vb. 
0\i'|3aj,  ihlihtl);  used  figuratively  for  "dis- 
2.  In  the  tress,"  "tribulation";  LXX  for  fur 
NT  and  ^arali;  Vulg  Iribitlatio  prcMiird 

(from  trihuluin,  "a  threshing  sledge"). 
The  vb.  form  is  rendered  "suffer  tribulation"  (.1 
Thess  3  4  \V,  "suffer  affliction"  RV);  "trouble" 
(•>  Thess  1  ti  AV,  "afflict"  RV;  cf  2  Cor  1  (5; 
4  s;  7  />;  1  Tim  5  10;  He  11  37).  The  noun 
form  is  rendered  in  AV  variously  as  "tribulation," 
"affliction,"  "persecution,"  though  more  uniformly 
"tribulation"  in  RV.  The  word  is  used  generally 
of  the  hardships  which  Christ's  followers  would 
suffer  (Mt  13  21;  24  9.21.29;  Mk  4  17;  13  19.. 
24'  Jn  16  33;  1  Cor  7  2S) ;  or  which  they  are 
now  passing  through  (Rom  5  3;  12  12;  2  Cor 
4  17-  Phil  4  14);  or  through  which  they  have 
already  come  (Acts  11  19;  2  Cor  2  4;  Rev  7  14). 

EDWARD  BAGBY  POLLARD 

TRIBUTE,  trib'fit  (&"£  ,  IHHN,  "tribute,"  really 
meaning  "forced  laborers,"  "labor  gang"  Jl  K  4  ti; 
9  l.j.21];  also  "forced  service,"  "serfdom";  possibly 
"forced  payment"  is  meant  in  Est  10  1;  the  idea 
ion! -lined  in  the  modern  word  is  better  given  by 
-TG,  middnh  |Ezr  6  S;  Nch  5  4]):  Words  used 
on'ly  of  the  duty  levied  for  Jeh  on  acquired  spoils  are 
C:1'?,  incklics,  "assessment"  (Nu  31  2S.37.3S.39.40. 
41),  ib?,  b'io,  "excise"  (E/r  4  13.20;  Neh  7  24), 
K'^nO,  «/««««',  "burden"  (2  Ch  17  11),  and  tDJ^ , 
\lnclh,  "fine"  or  "indemnity"  (2  K  23  33;  (f 
Prov  19  19).  The  tr  "tribute"  for  P. El?  ,  missath, 
in  Dt  16  10  is  wrong  (<  f  RVm).  Krjvffos,  A-^/W.S 
(Mt  22  17;  Mk  12  14)  =  "census,"  while  </>opos, 
nhorox  (Lk  20  22;  23  2;  Rom  13  6. 7),  signifies  an 
annual  tax  on  persons,  houses,  lands,  both  being  direct 
t  axes  The  phoroi  were  })-aid  by  agriculturists,  pay- 
ment being  made  partly  in  kind,  partly  in  money,  and 
are  contrasted  with  the  tele  of  the  publicans,  while 
kemsos  is  strictly  a  poll  tax.  The  amount  of  tribute 
required  as  a  poll  tax  by  the  Romans  was  the 
Sidpa^ov,  (li'lrachnmn  (Mt  17  24),  AV  "tribute, 
RV  "half-shekel."  The  ffrar^p,  stater  (ver  2t), 
was  a  tetradrachm,  "one  shekel,"  or  pay  for  two. 
After  the  destruction  of  Jerus,  the  Jews  were  re- 


3011 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trees,  Goodly 
Trine  Immersion 


quired  to  pay  (his  poll  tax  toward  the  support  of  the 
worship  of  Jupiter  Capitolinus.  Different  kinds 
of  personal  taxes  were  raised  by  the  Romans:  (1  ) 
an  income  tax,  (2)  the  poll  tax.  The  latter  must 
be  paid  by  \\omen  and  slaves  as  well  as  by  free  men, 
only  children  and  aged  people  being  exempted.  The 


A  Subject  People  1 'ay ing  Trihut 


payment  exacted  began  with  the  1  1th  year  in  the 
case  of  men  and  the  12th  in  the  ease  of  women,  the 
obligation  remaining  in  force  up  to  the  Goth  year 
iii  the  case  of  both.  For  purposes  of  assessment, 
each  person  was  permitted  to  put  his  own  state- 
ment on  record.  After  public  notice  had  been 
given  by  the  government,  every  citizen  was  ex- 
pected to  respond  without  personal  visitation  by 
an  official  (see  Lk  2  Iff).  On  the  basis  of  the 
records  thus  voluntarily  made,  the  tax  collectors 
would  enforce  the  payment  of  the  tribute.  See 
also  TAX,  TAXIXC.  FHAXK  E.  HIKSCH 

TRIBUTE    MONEY    (TO   v6(jao-(xa   TOV    KT|vcrou,   16 

itoniixnid  (ou  kfnuou  [Mt  22  19],  "the  coin  used 
in  payment  of  the  imperial  taxes"):  Lit.  "the  law- 
ful money  of  the  tax,"  which,  in  the  case  of  the  poll 
tax,  had  to  be  paid  in  current  coin  of  the  realm  (see 
Mt  17  27). 

TRICLINIUM,  trl-klin'i-um  (Lat  from  Or 
TpiK\(viov,  triklinion,  from  tri  and  kiinc,  "a  couch"): 
A  couch  for  reclining  at  meals  among  the  ancient 
Romans,  arranged  along  three  sides  of  a  square, 
the  fourth  side  being  left  open  for  bringing  in  food 
or  tables,  when  these  were  used.  In  the  larger 
Rom  houses  the  dining-rooms  consisted  of  small 
alcoves  in  the  atrium  arranged  to  receive  triclinia. 
In  early  OT  times  people  sat  at  their  meals  (Gen 
27  19;  Jgs  19  6;  1  S  20/>;  1  K  13  20 J.  Reclin- 
ing was  a  luxurious  habit  imported  from  foreign 
countries  by  the  degenerate  aristocracy  in  the  days 
of  the  later  prophets  (Am  2  <S;  6  4).  Still,  we 
find  it  common  in  NT  times  (Mt  9  10;  26  7;  Mk 
6  22.39;  14  3.1  S;  Lk  5  20;  7  3(>.37;  14  10;  17 
7;  .In  12  2;  in  these  passages,  though  EV  reads 
''sat,"  the  (!r  words  are  iin<i/:</ni<ii,  sunandkeimai, 
(i/Kip'i />(<>,  katdkeimai  and  (innklind,  all  indicating 
"reclining";  cf  .In  13  23;  21  20;  here  AV  trans- 
lates these  words  ''lean,"  probably  with  reference 
to  the  Jewish  custom  of  leaning  at  the  Passover 
feast).  In  Jn  2  8.9  the  ruler  or  governor  of  the 
feast  is  called  architriklinos,  that  is,  the  master  of 
t he  triclinium.  See  MEALS,  III.  NATHAN  ISAACS 

TRIM:  The  only  non-modern  use  is  in  Jer  2  33, 
"How  trimmest  thou  thy  way  to  seek  love!"  used 
for  21?^  ,  ydtabh,  "to  make  good,"  here  "to  study 
out,"  and  the  whole  phrase  means  "to  walk  in  an 
artificial  manner,"  "like  a  courtesan." 


TRINE    (TRIUNE)   IMMERSION,  trln  (trl'un) 
i-mur'shun: 

I.  Li\<;nsTic    BASIS 

1.  Immersion 

2.  Triple  Action 

II.     DOCTKI.VAL  ARGUMENT 
III.      HISTORICAL   PHACTICK 

1.  The  Jews 

2.  John  the  Baptist 
:{.    The  Di,l«i-li,- 

4.   Justin  Martyr 
">.    Tertullian 
(>.    Eunomius 
7.    (Jrcek  Church 
LITERATURE 

/.   Linguistic   Basis.      The   meaning   of   the   woid 
pa-n-Tlfa,   hitptizo,    is    "to   dip    repeatedly,"    "to  sub- 
merge"  (Thayer,  (Ir  Lex.   A' 7').      It   is 

1.  Immer-      probably  the   frequentative  of  fid-rrru}. 
sion  bdpto,   "to  dip,"   meaning   "to  dip   re- 
peatedly."    The     word     baptizo     (and 

f3dTTTifffjLa,  bdptisma)  in  the  NT  is  "used  absolutely, 
'to  administer  the  rite  of  ablution,'  'to  baptize'  " 
(ib).  It  is  "an  immersion  in  wafer,  performed 
as  a  sign  of  the  removal  of  sin."  etc  (ib);  "Hd/>lizr>, 
to  dip  in  or  under  water"  (Liddell  and  Scott,  (ir 
Lex.). 

The    threefold     immersion     is    based    upon     the 

Trinity   into  which   the  believer   is  to  be  baptized 

"into  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of 

2.  Triple        the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Spirit"   (ei's 
Action  TO   6vofj.a.  TOV   irarpos  xal   TOV  viov  /ecu   TOV 

ayiov  Tri/ei^a-ros,  cix  16  uttoma  ton  jiulros 
kai  ton  huiou  ka'i  lott  /tar/ion  put  tiniutox,  Mt  28  19). 
(On  the  genuineness  of  this  passage  see  Plummer, 
Coni/n.  on  Ml.) 

II.  Doctrinal  Argument. — Whether   Jesus   spoke 
the  words  of  Mt   28  19  as  a  baptismal  formula  or 
not  does  not  affect  the  question.     The  passages  in 
Acts,  "in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ"  (2  38;   10  48), 
and  "in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus"  (8  16;   19  5), 
are  not  baptismal  formulae,  but  mean  the  confes- 
sion of  Christ  with  all  that  Christ  stands  for,  viz.  the 
fulness  of  (iod  and  His  salvation.     The  idea  of  the 
Trinity  pervades  the  NT  and  many  of  the  earliest 
writings  (cf  1  Cor  12  4-0;    2  Cor  13  14;    Eph  2 
18;     3  14-17;     4  4-0;     2  Thess  2  13-15;     He  6 
4-0;    1  Jn  3  23.24;    4.  2;    Jude  vs  20.21;    Rev  1 
4.5).     "Baptized   into  Christ"    has   the   same  reli- 
gious content   as  Mt  28  19.     Triune  immersion  is 
the  symbol  of  baptism  into  the  Triune  God.     All 
believers  in  the  Trinity  .should  see  the  consistency 
of  this  symbol.     Baptism  is  the  symbol   (1)  of  a 
complete  cleansing,  (2)  of  death,  (3)  of  burial,   (4) 
of  resurrection,  and  (5)  of  entering  into  full  union 
and  fellowship  with  the  Triune  God  as  revealed  by 
Christ.     Triune  immersion  is  the  only  symbol  that 
symbolizes  all  that  baptism  stands  for.     Note  the 
words  of  Sanda\  on  Rom  6  1-14  (comm.  on  Rom, 
ICC,     153):     "Baptism    has    a    double    function: 
(1)    It  brings  the  Christian  into  personal  contact 
with  Christ,  so  close  that  it  may  fitly  be  described 
as    personal    union    with    Him.      (2)     It     expresses 
symbolically  a  series  of  acts  corresponding  to  the 
redeeming  acts  of  Christ.    Immersion  =  Death.    Sub- 
mersion =  Burial  (the  ratification  of  Death).     Emer- 
genco=  Resurrection.     All  these  the  Christian  has 
to  undergo  in  a  moral  and  spiritual  sense,  and  by 
means  of  his  union  with  Christ."      Hence  the  psy- 
chological need  of  a  true  symbol,  triune  immersion, 
to  teach  and  impress  the  significance  of  the  new 
life. 

///.  Historical  Practice. — The  Jews  received  pros- 
elytes by  circumcision,  baptism    (complete   immer- 
sion)   and    sacrifice     (Schtirer,    //./  P, 
1.  The  II,  2,  pp.   319  f;    Edersheim,  LTJM, 

Jews  11,  745,  and  I,  273). 

John  the  Baptist   baptized   "in   the 
river   Jordan"    (Mt  3  6)   and    "in    yEnon   near   to 


Trinity 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3.  The 
Didache 

els    rb    6i>o/J.a 
irveu/j.a.Tos 


4.   Justin 
Martyr 


5.  Ter- 
tullian 


Salim,  because  there  was  much  water  there"  (.In  3 
23).  Philip  and  the  eunuch  "both  went  down 
into  the  water"  and  they  "came  up 
2.  John  the  out  of  the  water."  All  NT  baptisms 
Baptist  were  bv  immersion  (see  also  Rom  6 

1-11). 

The  Didac/H-  (.101)  I-IO  AD)  ch  vii:  "Baptize  into 
the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the 
Holy  Spirit  in  living  [running]  water. 
Hut  if  they  have  not  living  water,  bap- 
tize into  other  water;  and  if  thon 
canst  not  in  cold,  in  warm"  (pa.wTiffa.Te 
TOV  7rar/)6s  Kal  TOV  viou  /ecu  TOV  ayiov 
voaTi  j'Jjirt,  \Hipt'iso.te  (  /.s  16  OHonia  toti 
putros  knl  toil  hnioti  knl  toil  hat/ion,  pn-ci'iiimtoN  en. 
hiidati  zont/").  "Hut  if  t  hou  have  not  eit  her,  pour  out 
water  thrice  [rpt's,  /n'.s]  upon  the  head  into  the  name 
of  the  Father  and  Son  and  Holy  Spirit."  Here  the 
triple  action  is  maintained  throughout,  even  in 
clinical  baptism,  while  immersion  is  the  rule. 

Justin    Martyr     (,.!/>.,    i.  ('>!')     describes     baptism 
which    can    only    be    understood     as     triune    im- 
mersion. 

Terlnllian  (Dc  Corona,  iii)  says, 
''Hereupon  we  are  thrice  immersed" 
(iltliinc  tir  n/i  rij/tn/nur).  Again  (Ad 
I'r/i.nn»i,  xxvi),  "And  lastly  he  commands  them  to 
baptize  into  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Holy 
Spirit,  not  into  a  nnipersonal  Clod. 
And  indeed  it  is  not  only  once;  but 
three  times  that  we  an;  immersed  into 
the  Three  Persons,  at  each  several 
mention  of  their  names"  (mini  )/T  x<  ///</,  wd  tcr, 
ml  xinyiilu  notnina,  in  pcrxotKiii  siliyulos,  ttityitiiiiur). 

Kunomius  (e  :?('>())  introduced  single  immersion  "into 
the  (loath  of  Christ."  This  innovation  \vas  condemned. 

Apos  Const,  "id.  says.  "  If  any  presbyter  or 
6  Euno-  bishop  does  not  perform  the  one  initiation 

with  t  hree  immersions,  but  with  giving  one 
nilUS  immersion  only  into  t  lie  death  of  t  he  Lord. 

let  him  be  deposed."  Single  immersion  was 
allowed  by  (iregory  tho  (Ireat  (c  <>!H  )  to  the  church  in 
Spain  in  opposition  to  the  Arians  \vlio  used  a  trine  (not 
triune.)  immersion  (  A>  /.-•.,  i.  V.',).  This  was  exceptional. 

The  (!r  church  has  always  baptized  by  triune 
The  historical  practice  of  the  Chris- 
tian church  may  well  be  summed  tip 
in  the  words  of  Dean  Stanley  :  "There 
can  be  no  question  that  the  original 
form  of  baptism  —  the  very  meaning 
of  the  word  —  was  complete  immersion  in  the  dee]) 
baptismal  waters;  and  that  for  at  least  four  cen- 
turies, any  other  form  was  either  unknown,  or  re- 
garded, unless  in  the  case  of  dangerous  illness,  as 
an  exceptional,  almost  monstrous  case  .....  A 
fe\v  drops  of  water  are  now  the  western  substitute 
for  the  threefold  plunge  into  the  rushing  river  or 
the  wide  baptisteries  of  the  East''  (Hixt  of  Eastern 
Church,  2Sj.  "For  the  first  three  centuries  the  al- 
most universal  practice  of  baptism  \vas  ....  that 
those  who  were  baptized,  were  plunged,  submerged, 
immersed  into  the  water"  (Chris/inn  Institutions, 
p.  21).  See  further,  BAPTISM;  LITERATTUE,  Suu- 

Al'OSTOI.IC,    I  I,   ;"). 

IjiTKUATruK.  —  James  Quinter,  Triune  Immersion  ax 
the,  A  oostolic  Form  of  (')iristin  n  lin  ]>tix  in:  C.  F.  Voder, 
God's  M  c  n  lift  of  d'l-iii-,.  Brethren  1'ub.  House,  Elgin.  111., 
T.S.A.;  Smith,  J)iet.  of  Christian  A  ntifjuitii  •*,'  Hastings, 
EHE;  Bible  Diets.;  Church  l-'athers;  Church  Histories. 
and  Histories  of  Baptism. 

DAXIKL  WEBSTER  KURTZ 

TRINITY,  trin'i-ti: 

1.  The  Term  "Trinity" 

2.  Purely  a  Revealed  Doctrine 
;?.    Xo  Rational  Proof  of  It 

4.  Finds  Support  in  Reason 

r>.  Xot  Clearly  Revealed  in  the  OT 

(i.  Prepared  for  in  the  OT 

7.  Presupposed  Rather  Than  Inculcated  in  the  NT 

5.  Revealed  in  Manifestation  of  Son  and  Spirit 
9.  Implied  in  the  Whole  NT 

10.   Conditions  the  Whole  Teaching  of  .Jesus 


immerson. 

7.  Greek 
Church 


11.  Father  and  Son  in  Johannino  Discourses 

12.  Spirit  in  Johannino  Discourses 
i:{.  The  Baptismal  Formula 

14.  (Genuineness  of  Baptismal  Formula. 

].">.  Paul's  Trinitarianism 

1C).  Conjunction  of  the  Three  in  Paul 

17.  Trinitarianism  of  Other  NT  Writers 

is.  Variations  in  Nomenclature 

111.  Implications  of  "  Son"  and  "Spirit" 

'M.  The  Question  of  Subordination 

'21.  Witness  of  the  Christian  Consciousness 

'2'2.  Formulation  of  the  Doctrine 

LITERATURE 

The  term  '''Trinity"  is  not   a  Bib.  term,  and  we 

are  not  using  Hib.  language  when  we  define  what  is 

expressed   by   it   as   the  doctrine  that 

1.  The  there   is  one  only  and  true  (lod,   but 
Term  in  the  unity  of  the  Godhead  there  are 
"Trinity"        three  coeternal  and   coequal   Persons, 

the  same  in  substance  but  distinct  in 
subsistence.  A  dot-trine  so  defined  can  be  spoken 
of  as  a  Bib.  doctrine  only  on  the  principle  that  the 
sense  of  Scripture  is  Script ure.  And  the  definition 
of  a  Bib.  doctrine  in  such  un-Bib.  language  can  be 
justified  only  on  the  principle  that  it  is  better  to 
preserve!  the  truth  of  Scripture  than  the  words  of 
Scripture.  The  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  lies  in 
Scripture  in  solution;  when  it  is  crystallized  from 
its  solvent  it  dues  not  cease  to  be  Scriptural,  but 
only  comes  into  <  learer  view.  Or,  to  speak  without 
tigure,  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  is  given  to  us  in 
Scripture,  not  in  formulated  definition,  but  in  frag- 
mentary allusions;  when  we  assemble  the  di.ycctd 
nii'inhrn  into  their  organic  unity,  we  are  not  passing 
from  Scripture,  but  entering  more  thoroughly  into 
the  meaning  of  Scripture.  We  may  state  the  doc- 
trine in  technical  terms,  supplied  by  philosophical 
reflection;  but  the  doctrine  stated  is  a  genuinely 
Scriptural  doctrine. 

In  point  of  fact,  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  is 
purely  a  revealed  doctrine.  That  is  to  say,  it 

embodies  a  truth  which  has  never  been 

2.  Purely  a    discovered,   and   is   indiscoverable,   by 
Revealed       natural  reason.     With  all  his  search- 
Doctrine         ing,  man  has  not  been  able  to  find  out 

for  himself  the  deepest  things  of  (!od. 
Accordingly,  ethnic  thought  has  never  attained  a 
Trinitarian  conception  of  (lod,  nor  does  any  ethnic; 
religion  present  in  its  representations  of  the  Divine 
being  any  analogy  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity. 

Triads  of  divinities,  no  doubt,  occur  in  nearly  all 
polytheistic  religions,  formed  under  very  various  in- 
fluences. Sometimes,  as  in  the  Egyp  triad  of  Osiris, 
Isis  and  Ilorus,  it  is  the  analogy  of  the  human  family 
with  its  father,  mother  and  son  which  lies  at  their  basis. 
Sometimes  they  are  the  effect  of  mere  syncretism,  three 
deities  worshipped  in  different  localities  being  brought 
together  in  the  common  worship  of  all.  Sometimes,  as 
iti  the  Hindu  triad  of  Brahma,  Vishnu  and  Shiva,  they 
represent  the  cyclic  movement  of  a  pantheistic  evolu- 
tion, and  symbolize  tho  three  stages  of  Being,  Becoming 
and  Dissolution.  Sometimes  they  are  the  result  appar- 
ently of  nothing  more  than  an  odd  human  tendency  to 
think  in  threes,  which  has  given  the  number  three  wide- 
spread standing  as  a  sacred  number  (so  II.  L'sener). 
It  is  no  more  than  was  to  be  anticipated,  that  one  or 
another  of  these;  triads  should  noyv  and  again  be  pointed 
to  as  the  replica  (or  even  the  original)  of  the  Christian 
doctrine  of  the  Trinity.  Gladstone  found  the  Trinity  in 
tho  Homeric  mythology,  the  trident  of  Poseidon  being 
its  symbol.  Hegel  very  naturally  found  it  in  the  Hindu 
Trimurti,  which  indeed  is  very  like  his  pantheizing 
notion  of  what  the  Trinity  is.  Others  have  perceived 
it  in  the  Buddhist  Triratna  (Soderbloin) ;  or  (despite 
their  crass  dualism)  in  some  speculations  of  Parsee- 
ism;  or,  more  frequently,  in  the  notional  triad  of  Platon- 
ism  (e.g.  Knapp);  while  Jules  Martin  is  quite  sure  that 
it  is  present  in  Philo's  neo-Stoical  doctrine  of  tho 
"powers,"  esp.  when  applied  to  the  explanation  of 
Abraham's  three  visitors.  Of  late  years,  eyes  have 
been  turned  rather  to  Babylonia;  and  H.  Zimmern 
finds  a  possible  forerunner  of  the  Trinity  in  a  Father, 
Son,  and  Intercessor,  which  he  discovers  in  its  my- 
thology. It  should  be  needless  to  say  that  none  of  these 
triads  has  the  slightest  resemblance  to  the  Christian 
doctrine;  of  the  Trinity.  The  Christian  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity  embodies  much  more  than  the  notion  of  "three- 
ness,"  and  beyond  their  "threeness"  these  triads 
have  nothing  in  common  with  it. 


301I3 


THIO  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trinity 


As  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  is  indiscoverable 
bv  reason,  so  it  is  incapable  of  proof  from  reason. 

There  are  no  analogies  to  it  in  Nature, 
3.  No  not  even  in  the  spiritual  nature  of  man, 

Rational  who  is  made  in  the  image  of  God.  In 
Proof  of  It  His  trinitarian  mode  of  being,  (Jod  is 

unique;  and,  as  there  is  nothing  in  the 
universe  like  Him  in  this  respect,  so  there  is  nothing 
\\hieh  can  help  us  to  comprehend  Him.  Many 
attempts  have,  nevertheless,  been  made  to  con- 
struct a  rational  proof  of  the  Trinity  of  the  Cod- 
head.  Among  these  there  arc;  two  which  are  par- 
ticularly attractive1,  and  have  therefore  been  put 
forward  again  and  again  by  speculative  thinkers 
through  all  the  Christian  ages.  These  are  derived 
frorn  the  implications,  in  the  one  case,  of  self- 
consciousness;  in  the  other,  of  love.  Both  self- 
consciousness  and  love,  it  is  said,  demand  for  their 
very  existence  an  object  over  against  which  the 
self  stands  as  subject.  If  we  conceive  of  Clod  as 
self-conscious  and  loving,  therefore,  we  cannot  help 
conceiving  of  Him  as  embracing  in  His  unity  some 
form  of  plurality.  From  this  general  position  both 
arguments  have  been  elaborated,  however,  by 
various  thinkers  in  very  varied  forms. 

The  former  of  thorn,  for  example,  is  developed  by  a 
great  1  "til-cent,  theologian — Bartholomew  Keckermaim 
(1014) — as  follows:  God  is  self-conscious  thought;  and 
God's  thought  must  have  a  perfect  object,  existing 
eternally  before  it;  this  object  to  be  perfect  must  be 
itself  God;  and  as  God  is_  one,  this  object  which  is 
God  must  be  the,  God  that  is  one.  It  is  essentially  the 
same  argument  which  is  popularized  in  a  famous  para- 
graph (§7:5)  of  Lessing's  The  Education  of  the  Human 
Ifd/'f.  Must  not  God  have  an  absolutely  perfect  repre- 
sentation of  Himself — that  is,  a  representation  in  which 
everything  that  is  in  Him  is  found?  And  would  every- 
thing that  is  in  God  be  found  in  this  representation  if 
His  necessary  reality  were  not  found  in  it?  If  every- 
thing, everything  without  exception,  that  is  ill  God  is  to 
be  found  in  this  representation,  it  cannot,  therefore, 
remain  a  mere  empty  image,  but  must  bean  actual  dupli- 
cation of  God.  It  is  obvious  that  arguments  like;  this 
prove  too  much.  If  God's  representation  of  Himself, 
to  be  perfect,  must  possess  the  same  kind  of  reality  that 
He  Himself  possesses,  it  does  not  seem  easy  to  deny  that 
His  representations  of  everything  else  must  possess  ob- 
jective reality.  And  this  would  bo  as  much  as  to  say 
that  the  eternal  objective  coexistence  of  all  that  God 
can  conceive  is  given  in  the  very  idea  of  God;  and  that 
is  open  pantheism.  The  logical  flaw  lies  in  including  in 
the  perfection  of  a  representation  qualities  which  are 
not  proper  to  representations,  however  perfect.  A  perfect 
representation  must,  of  course,  have  all  the  reality 
proper  to  a  representation;  but  objective  reality  is  so 
little  proper  to  a  representation  that  a  representation 
acquiring  it  would  cease  to  be  a  representation.  This 
fatal  flaw  is  not  transcended,  but  only  covered  up, 
when  the  argument  is  compressed,  as  it  is  in  most  of  its 
modern  presentations,  in  effect  to  the  mere  assertion 
that  the  condition  of  self-consciousness  is  a  real  dis- 
tinction between  the  thinking  subject  and  the  thought 
object,  which,  in  God's  case,  would  be  between  the  sub- 
ject ego  and  the  object  ego.  Why,  however,  we  should 
d.'iiy  to  God.  the  power  of  self-contemplation  enjoyed  by 
e\  ery  finite  spirit,  save  at  the  cost  of  the  distinct  hypos- 
tat  izing  of  the  contemplant  and  the  contemplated  self, 
it  is  hard  to  understand.  Nor  is  it  always  clear  that 
what  we  get  is  a  distinct  hypostati/.ation  rather  than  a 
di  -liiiet  substantializing  of  the  contemplant  and  con- 
templated ego:  not  two  persons  in  the  Godhead  so  much 
as  two  Gods.  The  discovery  of  the  third  hypostasis — 
t  he  Holy  Spirit — remains  meanwhile,  to  all  these  attempts 
rationally  to  construct  a  Trinity  in  the  Divine  Being, 
a  standing  puzzle  which  finds  only  a  very  artificial 
solution. 

The  case  is  much  the  same  with  the  argument  derived 
from  the  nature  of  love.  Our  sympathies  go  out  to  that 
old  Valentinian  writer — possibly  it  was  Valentinus 
himself — who  reasoned — perhaps  he  was  the  first  so  to 
reason — that  "God  is  all  love,"  "but  love  is  not  love 
unless  then;  be  an  object  of  love."  And  they  go  out 
more  richly  still  to  Augustine,  when,  seeking  a  basis, 
not  for  a  theory  of  emanations,  but  for  the  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity,  he  analyzes  this  love  which  ( Jod  is  into  the  triple 
implication  of  "the  lover,"  "the  loved"  and  "the  love 
itself,"  and  sees  in  this  trinary  of  love  an  analogue  of 
the  Triune  God.  It  requires,  however,  only  that  the 
argument  thus  broadly  suggested  should  be  developed 
into  its  details  for  its  artificiality  to  become  apparent. 
Richard  of  St.  Victor  works  it  out  as  follows:  It  belongs 
to  the  nature  of  nmur  that  it  should  turn  to  another  as 
caritas.  This  other,  in  God's  case,  cannot  be  the  world; 


since  such  love  of  the  world  would  be  inordinate.  It 
can  only  he  a  person;  and  a  person  who  is  God's  equal 
in  eternity,  power  and  wisdom.  Since,  however,  there 
cannot  be  two  Divine  substances,  these  two  Divine 
persons  must  form  one  and  the  same  substance.  The 
best  love  cannot,  however,  confine  itself  to  those  two 
persons;  it  must  become  comlil,  r/,'o  by  the  desire  that 
a  third  should  be  equally  loved  as  they  love  one  another. 
Thus  love,  when  perfectly  conceived,  leads  necessarily 
to  the  Trinity,  and  since  God  is  all  Ho  can  be,  this 
Trinity  must  be  real.  Modern  writers  (Sartorius, 
Sehoberlein,  .1.  Miiller,  Liebner,  most  lately  H.  H.  Griitz- 
macher)  do  not  seem  to  have  essentially  improved  upon 
such  a  statement  as  this.  And  after  all  is  said,  it  does 
not  appear  clear  that  God's  own  all-perfect  Being  could 
not  supply  a  satisfying  object  of  His  all-perfect  love. 
To  say  that  in  its  very  nature  love  is  self-communicat  i ve, 
and  therefore  implies  an  object  other  than  self,  seems  an 
abuse  of  figurative  language. 

Perhaps  the  ontological  proof  of  the  Trinity  is  nowhere 
more  attractively  put  than  by  Jonathan  Edwards.  The 
peculiarity  of  his  presentation  of  it  lies  in  an  attempt  to 
add  plausibility  to  it  by  a  doctrine  of  the,  nature  of  spirit- 
ual ideas  or  ideas  of  spiritual  things,  such  as  thought,  love, 
fear,  in  general.  Ideas  of  such  tilings,  he  urges,  are  just 
repetitions  of  them,  so  that  he  who  has  an  idea  of  any  act 
of  love,  fear,  anger  or  any  other  act  or  motion  of  the  mind, 
simply  so  far  repeats  the  motion  in  question;  and  if  the 
idea  bp  perfect  and  complete;,  the  original  motion  of  the 
mind  is  absolutely  reduplicated.  Edwards  presses  this 
so  far  that  he  is  ready  to  contend  that  if  a  man  could 
have  an  absolutely  perfect  idea  of  all  that  was  in  his 
mind  at  any  past  moment,  he  would  really,  to  all  intents 
and  purposes,  be  over  again  what  ho  was  at  that  moment. 
And  if  he  could  perfectly  contemplate  all  that  is  in  his 
mind  at  any  given  moment,  as  it  is  and  at  the  same  time 
that  it  is  there  in  its  first  and  direct  existence,  ho  would 
really  be  two  at  that  time,  he  would  be  twice  at  once: 
"The  idea  he  has  of  himself  would  be  himself  again." 
This  now  is  the  case  with  the  Divine  Being.  "God's 
idea  of  Himself  is  absolutely  perfect,  and  therefore;  is  an 
express  and  perfect  image;  of  Him,  exactly  like  Him  in 

every    respect But    that    which    is    the    express, 

perfect  image  of  God  and  in  every  respect  like  Him  is 
God,  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  because  there  is  nothing 
wanting:  there  is  nothing  in  the  Deity  that  renders  it 
the  Deity  but  what  has  something  exactly  answering  to 
it  in  this  image,  which  will  therefore  also  render  that  the 
Deity."  The  Second  Person  of  the  Trinity  being  thus 
attained,  the  argument  advances.  "The  Godhead 
being  thus  begotten  of  God's  loving  [having?]  an  idea 
of  Himself  and  showing  forth  in  a  distinct  Subsistence 
or  Person  in  that  idea,  there  proceeds  a  most  pure  act, 
and  an  infinitely  holy  and  sacred  energy  arises  between 
the  Father  and  the  Son  in  mutually  loving  and  delighting 

in  each  other The   Deity   becomes  all  act,   the 

Divine  essence  itself  flows  out  and  is  as  it  wore  breathed 
forth  in  love  and  joy.  So  that  the  Godhead  therein 
stands  forth  in  yet  another  manner  of  Subsistence,  and 
there  proceeds  the  Third  Person  in  the  Trinity,  the  Holy 
Spirit,  viz.  the  Deity  in  act,  for  then;  is  no  other  act  but 
the  act  of  the  will."  The  Inconclusiveness  of  the  reason- 
ing lies  on  the  surface.  The  mind  does  not  consist  in  its 
states,  and  the  repetition  of  its  state's  would  not,  there- 
fore, duplicate  or  triplicate  it.  If  it  did,  \ye  should  have 
a  plurality  of  Be>ings,  not  of  Persons  in  one  Being. 
Neither  God's  perfect  idea  of  Himself  ne>r  His  perfect 
love  of  Himself  reproduces  Himself.  He  differs  from 
His  idea  and  His  love  of  Himself  precisely  by  that  which 
distinguishes  His  Being  from  His  acts.  When  it  is  said, 
then,  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  Deity  which  renders 
it  the  Deity  but  what  has  something  answering  to  it  in 
its  image  e>f  itse-If,  it  is  enough  to  respond — except  the 
Deity  itself.  What  is  wanting  to  the  image  to  make  it 
a  second  Deity  is  just  objective  reality. 

Inconclusive  as  all  such  reasoning  is,  however, 
considered  as  rational  demonstration  of  the  reality 
of  the  Trinity,  it  is  very  far  from 
4.  Sup-  possessing  no  value.  It  carries  home 
ported  by  to  us  in  a  very  suggestive  way  the 
Reason  superiority  of  the  Trinitarian  concep- 

tion of  God  to  the  conception  of  Him 
as  an  abstract  monad,  and  thus  brings  important 
rational  support  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity, 
when  once  that  doctrine  has  been  given  us  by  reve- 
lation. If  it  is  not  quite  possible  to  say  that  we 
cannot  conceive  of  God  as  eternal  self-conscious- 
ness and  eternal  love,  without  conceiving  Him  as  a 
Trinity,  it  does  seem  quite  necessary  to  say  that 
when  we  conceive  Him  as  a  Trinity,  new  fulness, 
richness,  force  are  given  to  our  conception  of  Him 
as  a  self-conscious,  loving  Being,  and  therefore  we 
conceive  Him  more  adequately  than  as  a  monad, 
and  no  one  who  has  ever  once  conceived  Him  as  a 
Trinity  can  ever  again  satisfy  himself  with  a  monad- 


Trinity 


TIIIO  INTFRXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3014 


6.  Not 
Clearly 
Revealed 
in  the  OT 


istic  conception  of  Clod.  Reason  thus  not  only 
performs  the,  important-  negative  service  to  faith  in 
the  Trinity,  of  showing  the  self-consistency  of  the 
doctrine  :uid  its  consistency  with  ot  her  known  truth, 
but  brings  t  his  posit  ive  rat  ional  support,  to  it  of  dis- 
covering in  it  the  only  adequate  concept  ion  of  God 
as  self-conscious  spirit  and  living  love.  Difficult, 
therefore,  as  the  idea  of  the  Trinity  in  itself  is,  it 
does  not  come  to  us  as  an  added  burden  upon  our 
intelligence;  it  brings  us  rather  the  solution  of  the 
deepest  and  most  persistent  difficulties  in  our  con- 
ception of  God  as  infinite  moral  Being,  and  illumi- 
nates, enriches  and  elevates  all  our  thought  of  God. 
It  has  accordingly  become;  a  commonplace  to  say 
that  Christian  theism  is  the,  only  stable  theism. 
That  is  as  much  as  to  say  that  theism  requires  the 
enriching  conception  of  the  Trinity  to  give  it  a  per- 
manent hold  upon  the  human  mind — the  mind 
finds  it  difficult  to  rest  in  the  idea  of  an  abstract 
unity  for  its  (!od;  and  that  the  human  heart  cries 
out  for  the  living  God  in  whose  Being  there  is  that 
fulness  of  life  for  \vhich  the  conception  of  (lit;  Trinity 
alone  provides. 

So  strongly  is  it  felt  in  wide  circles  that  a  Trinitarian 
conception  is  essential  to  u  worthy  idea  of  Cod.  that 
there  is  abroad  a  deep-seated  unwilling- 
ness to  allow  that  Cod  could  ever  have 
made  Himself  known  otherwise  than  as 
a  Trinity.  From  this  point  of  view  it, 
is  inconceivable  that  the  OT  revela- 
tion should  know  not  hint,'  of  the  Trinity. 
Accordingly,  I.  A.  Dorner.  for  example, 
reasons  thus:  "If.  however  -and  this  is  ihc  faith  of 
universal  Christendom — a  living  idea  of  Cod  must  be 
thought  in  some  way  after  a  Trinitarian  fashion,  it 
must  be  antecedently  probable  that  traces  of  the  Trinity 
cannot  be  lacking  in  the  OT.  since  its  idea  of  Cod  is  a 
living  or  historical  one."  Whether  there  really  exist 
traces  of  the  idea  of  the  Trinity  in  the  OT,  however,  is 
a  nice  question.  Certainly  we  cannot  speak  broadly  of 
the  revelation  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  in  the  OT. 
It  is  a  plain  matter  of  fact  that  none  \\  h.>  have  depended 
on  the  revelation  embodied  in  the  OT  alone  have  e\er 
attained  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  it  is  another 
question,  however,  whether  there  may  not  exist  in  the 
pages  of  the  OT  turns  of  expression  or  records  of  occur- 
rences in  which  one  already  acquainted  with  the  doctrine 
of  the  Trinity  may  fairly  see  indications  of  an  under- 
lying Implication  of  it.  The  older  writers  discovered 
intimations  of  the  Trinity  in  such  phenomena  as  the  pi. 
form  of  the  Divine  name  Kt<~>h l m,  the  occasional  employ- 
ment with  reference  to  Cod  of  pi.  pronouns  ("Let 
us  make  man  in  our  image."  (fen  1  20;  3  22;  11  7; 
[sa  6  <S),  or  of  pi.  verbs  (Cen  20  i:'>;  35  7),  certain 
repetitions  of  the  name  of  God  which  seem  to  distin- 
guish between  Cod  and  Cod  (Cen  19  27;  Ps  45  <>.7; 
110  1;  Hos  1  7),  threefold  liturgical  formulas  (l)t  16 
4;  Nil  6  24.2G;  Isa  6  '•*•),  a  certain  tendency  to  hy- 
postatize  the  conception  of  Wisdom  (Prov  8).  and  esp. 
the  remarkable  phenomena  connected  with  the  appear- 
ances of  the  Angel  of  Jeli  (Cen  16  2-i:i;  22  11. Hi; 
31  11. Ki;  48  15.1(1;  Kx  3  2.4.5;  Jgs  13  20-22).  The 
tendency  of  more,  recent  authors  is  to  appeal,  not  so 
much  to  specific  texts  of  the  OT.  as  to  t  lie  very  "organ- 
ism of  revelation"  in  the  OT.  in  which  there  is  perceived 
an  underlying  suggestion  "that  all  things  owe  their 
existence  and  persistence  to  a  threefold  cause,"  both 
with  reference  to  the  first  creation,  and,  more  plainly, 
with  reference  to  the  second  creation.  Passages  like 
Ps  33  (>;  Isa  61  1 :  63  9-12;  Hag  2  5.6,  in  which  God 
and  His  Word  and  His  Spirit  are  brought  together, 
co-causes  of  effects,  are  adduced.  A  tendency  is  pointed 
out  to  hypostati/,e  the  Word  of  God  on  the  one  hand 
(e.g.  (fen  1  :i;  Ps  33  f,;  107  20;  119  S7;  147  15-1S; 
Isa  55  11);  and,  esp.  in  K/,k  an  1  the  later  Prophets, 
the  Spirit  of  God,  on  the.  other  (e.g.  Gen  1  2;  Isa  48  K'>; 
63  l();  Kzk  22;  8  3;  /ce  7  12).  Suggestions — in 
Isa  for  instance  (7  14;  9  fl) — of  the  Deity  of  the  Mes- 
siah are  appealed  to.  And  if  the  occasional  occurrence 
of  pi.  verbs  and  pronouns  referring  to  God,  and  the  pi. 
form  of  the  name  Klohlm,  are  not  insisted  upon  as  in 
themselves  evidence  of  a  multiplicity  in  the  Godhead, 
yet  a  certain  weight  is  lent  them  as  witnesses  that  "the 
God  of  revelation  is  no  abstract  unity,  but  the  living, 
true  (fod,  who  in  the  fulness  of  His  life  embraces  the 
highest  variety  "  (Bavinck).  The  upshot  of  it  all  is  that 
it  is  very  generally  felt  that,  somehow,  in  the  OT  devel- 
opment of  the  idea  of  God  there  is  a  suggestion  that  the 
Deity  is  not  a  simple  monad,  and  that  thus  a  preparation 
is  made  for  the  revelation  of  the  Trinity  yet  to  come. 
It  would  seem  clear  that  we  must  recognize  in  the  OT 
doctrine  of  the  relation  of  God  to  His  revelation  by  the 
creative  Word  and  the  Spirit,  at  least  the  germ  of  the 
distinctions  in  the  Godhead  afterward  fully  made  known 


in  the  Christian  revelation.  And  we  can  scarcely  stop 
there.  After  all  is  said,  in  the  light  of  the  later  revela- 
tion, the  Trinitarian  interpretation  remains  the  most 
natural  one  of  the  phenomena  which  the  older  writers 
frankly  interpreted  as  intimations  of  the  Trinity;  esp. 
of  those  connected  with  the  descriptions  of  the  Angel  of 
Jeh,  no  doubt,  but  also  even  of  such  a  form  of  expression 
as  meets  us  in  the  "  Let  us  make  man  in  our  image"  of 
Cen  1  2(> — for  surely  ver  27:  "And  God  created  man 
in  his  own  image,"  does  not  encourage  us  to  take  the 
preceding  verse  as  announcing  that  man  was  to  bo 
created  in  the  image  of  the  angels.  This  is  not  an  ille- 
gitimate reading  of  XT  ideas  back  into  the  text  of  the 
OT;  it  is  only  reading  the  text  of  the  OT  under  the 
illumination  of  the  NT  revelation.  The  OT  may  be 
likened  to  a  chamber  richly  furnished  but  dimly 
lighted;  the  introduction  of  light  brings  into  it  nothing 
which  was  not  in  it  before;  but  it  brings  out  into  clearer 
\iew  much  of  what  is  in  it  but  was  only  dimly  or  even 
not  at  all  perceived  before.  The  mystery  of  the  Trinity 
is  not  revealed  in  the  OT;  but  the  mystery  of  the  Trinity 
underlies  the  OT  revelation,  and  here  and  there  almost 
comes  into  view.  Thus  the  OT  revelation  of  Cod  is  not 
corrected  by  the  fuller  revelation  which  follows  it,  but 
only  perfected,  extended  and  enlarged. 

It   is  an  old  saying  that  what  becomes  patent  in 

the  XT  was  latent  in  the  OT.     And  it  is  important 

that  the  cont  inuity  of  the  revelation  of 

6.  Prepared  God  contained  in  the  two  Testaments 
for  in  should  not  be  overlooked  or  obscured. 
the  OT  If  we  find  some  difficulty  in  perceiving 

for  ourselves,  in  the,  OT,  definite  points 
of  attachment  for  the  revelation  of  tin;  Trinity,  we 
cannot  help  perceiving  with  great  clearness  in  the; 
NT  abundant  evidence,  that  its  writers  felt  no  in- 
congruity whatever  between  their  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity  and  the  OT  conception  of  God.  The  XT 
writers  certainly  were  not  conscious  of  being  "set  ters 
forth  of  strange  gods."  To  their  own  apprehen- 
sion they  worshipped  and  proclaimed  just  the  God 
of  Israel;  and  they  laid  no  less  stress  than  the  OT 
itself  upon  His  unity  (.In  17  M;  1  Cor  8  4;  1  Tim 
2  .")).  They  do  not,  then,  place  two  new  gods  by 
the  side  of  Jeh,  as  alike  with  Him  to  be  served  and 
worshipped;  they  conceive  Jeh  as  Himself  at  once 
Father,  Son  and  Spirit.  In  presenting  this  one 
Jeh  as  Father,  Son  and  Spirit,  they  do  not  oven 
betray  any  lurking  feeling  that,  they  are  making 
innovations.  'Without  apparent  misgiving  they 
take  over  OT  passages  and  apply  them  to  Father, 
Son  and  Spirit  indifferently.  Obviously  they  under- 
stand themselves,  and  wish  to  be  understood,  as 
setting  forth  in  the  Father,  Son  and  Spirit  just  the 
one  God  that  the  God  of  the  OT  revelation  is;  and 
they  are  as  far  as  possible  from  recognizing  any 
In-each  between  themselves  and  the  Fathers  in  pre- 
senting  their  enlarged  conception  of  the  Divine 
Being.  This  may  not  amount  to  saying  that  they 
saw  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  everywhere  taught 
in  the  OT.  It  certainly  amounts  to  saying_  that 
they  saw  the  Triune  God  whom  they  worshipped 
in  the  God  of  the  OT  revelation,  and  felt  no  incon- 
gruity in  speaking  of  their  Triune  God  in  the  terms 
of  the  OT  revelation.  The  God  of  the  OT  was  their 
God,  and  their  God  was  a  Trinity,  and  their  sense 
of  the  identity  of  the  two  was  so  complete  that  no 
question  as  to  it  was  raised  in  their  minds. 

The  simplicity  and  assurance  with  which  the  XT 

writers  speak  of  God  as  a  Trinity  have,  however, 

a  further  implication.     If  they  betray 

7.  Pre-  no  sense  of  novelty  in  so  speaking  of 
supposed        Him,  tin's  is  undoubtedly  in  part  be- 
in  the  NT       cause  it  was  no  longer  a  novelty  so  to 

speak  of  Him.  It  is  clear,  in  other 
words,  that,  as  we  read  the  XT,  we  are  not  wit- 
nessing the  birth  of  a  new  conception  of  God.  What 
we  meet  with  in  its  pages  is  a  firmly  established 
conception  of  God  underlying  and  giving  its  tone 
to  the  whole  fabric.  It  is  not  in  a  text  here  and 
there  that  the  XT  bears  its  testimony  to  the  doc- 
trine of  the  Trinity.  The  whole  book  is  Trinitarian 
to  the  core;  all  its  teaching  is  built  on  the  assump- 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBL1-;  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trinity 


(ion  of  the  Trinity;  and  its  allusions  to  the'  Trinity 
are  frequent,  cursory,  easy  and  confident.  It  is 
with  a  view  to  the  cursoriness  of  the  allusions  to  it 
in  the  NT  that  it  has  been  remarked  that,  "the  doc- 
trine of  the  Trinity  is  not  so  much  heard  as  over- 
heard in  the  statements  of  Script  ure."  It  would  he 
more  exact  to  say  that,  it  is  not  so  much  inculcated 
as  presupposed.  The  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  does 
not  appear  in  the  NT  in  the  making,  hut  as  already 
made.  It,  takes  its  place  in  its  pages,  as  (iimkel 
phrases  it,  with  an  air  almost  of  complaint,  already 
"in  full  completeness''  (ritlliij  f>>iii/),  leaving  no 
trace  of  its  growth.  "There  is  nothing  more  won- 
derful in  the  history  of  human  thought,"  says  Sun- 
day, with  his  eye  on  the  appearance  of  the  doctrine 
of  the  Trinity  in  the  NT,  "than  the  silent  and 
imperceptible  way  in  which  this  doctrine,  to  us 
so  difficult,  took  its  place;  without  struggle — and 
without  controversy — among  accepted  Christian 
truths."  The  explanation  of  this  remarkable 
phenomenon  is,  however,  simple.  Our  XT  is  not 
a  record  of  the  development  of  the  doctrine  or  of  its 
assimilation.  It  everywhere  presupposes  the  doc- 
trine as  the  fixed  possession  of  the  Christian  com- 
munity; and  the  process  by  which  it  became  the 
possession  of  the  Christian  community  lies  behind 
the  XT. 

We  cannot  speak  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity, 
therefore,  if  we  study  exactness  of  speech,  as  re- 
vealed in  the  NT,  any  more  than  we 
8.  Mani-  can  speak  of  it  as  revealed  in  the  ( )T. 
fested  in  The  OT  was  written  before  its  reve- 
Son  and  Lit  ion;  the  NT  after  it.  The  revela- 
Spirit  tion  itself  was  made  not  in  word  but 

in  deed.  It  was  made  in  the  incar- 
nation of  (iod  the  Son,  and  the  outpouring  of  Cod 
the  Holy  Spirit.  The  relation  of  the  two  Testa- 
ments to  this  revelation  is  in  the  one  case  that  of 
preparation  for  it,  and  in  the  other  that  of  product 
of  it.  The  revelation  itself  is  embodied  just  in 
Christ  and  the  Holy  Spirit.  This  is  as  much  as  to 
say  that  the  revelation  of  the  Trinity  was  incidental 
to,  and  the  inevitable  effect  of,  the  accomplishment 
of  redemption.  It  was  in  the  coming  of  the  Son  of 
Cod  in  the  likeness  of  sinful  flesh  to  offer  Himself 
a  sacrifice  for  sin;  and  in  the  coming  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  to  convict  the  world  of  sin,  of  righteousness 
and  of  judgment,  that  the  Trinity  of  Persons  in  the 
I'nity  of  the  Codhead  was  once  for  all  revealed  to 
men.  Those  who  knew  Cod  the  Father,  who  loved 
them  and  gave  His  own  Son  to  die  for  them;  and 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ ,  who  loved  them  and  deliv- 
ered Himself  up  an  offering  and  sacrifice  for  them; 
and  the  Spirit  of  Grace,  who  loved  them  and  dwelt 
within  them  a  power  not  themselves,  making  for 
righteousness,  knew  the  Triune  Cod  and  could  not 
think  or  speak  of  (iod  otherwise  than  as  triune. 
The  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  in  other  words,  is 
simply  the  modification  wrought  in  the  conception 
of  the  OIK;  only  Cod  by  His  complete  revelation  of 
Himself  in  the  redemptive  process.  It  necessarily 
waited,  therefore',  upon  the  completion  of  the  re- 
demptive process  for  its  revelation,  and  its  revela- 
tion, as  necessarily,  lay  complete  in  the  redemptive 
process. 

From  this  central  fact  we  may  understand  more  fully 
several  circumstances  eomieeti'd  with  the  revelation  of 
tho  Trinity  to  which  allusion  has  been  made.  Wo  may 
from  it  understand,  for  example,  why  tho  Trinity  was 
not  revealed  in  the  OT.  It  may  carry  us  a  littlo  way 
to  remark,  as  it  lias  been  customary  to  remark  since 
the  time  of  Gregory  of  Nazianzus,  that  it  was  tho  task 
of  tho  OT  revelation  to  fix  firmly  in  tho  minds  and 
hearts  of  the  people  of  (!od  the  groat  fundamental  truth 
of  tho  unity  of  the  Godhead;  and  it  would  have  been 
dangerous  to  speak  to  them  of  tho  plurality  within  this 
unity  until  this  task  had  boon  fully  accomplished.  The 
real  reason  for  the  delay  in  the  revelation  of  the  Trinity. 
however,  is  grounded  in  tho  secular  development  of 
the  redemptive  purpose  of  God:  tho  times  were  not 


ripo  for  the  revelation  of  the  Trinity  in  the  unity  of 
the  Godhead  until  the  fulness  of  the  time  had  come  for 
(iod  to  send  forth  His  Son  unto  redemption,  and  His 
Spirit  unto  sanctilication.  The  revelation  in  word  must 
needs  wait  upon  the  revelation  in  fact,  to  which  it  brings 
its  necessary  explanation,  no  doubt,  but  from  which  also 
it  derives  its  own  entire  significance  and  value.  The 
revelation  of  a  Trinity  in  the  Divine  unity  as  a  mere 
abstract  truth  without  relation  to  manifested  fact,  and 
without  signilicance  to  the  development  of  the  kingdom 
of  God,  would  have  been  foreign  to  the  whole  method  of 
the  Divine  procedure  as  it  lies  exposed  to  us  in  the  pages 
of  Scripture.  Here  the  working-out  of  the  Divine  pur- 
pose supplies  the  fundamental  principle  to  which  all  else, 
even  the  progressive  stages  of  revelation  itself,  is  sub- 
sidiary; and  advances  in  revelation  are  ever  closely 
connected  with  the  advancing  accomplishment  of  the 
redemptive  purpose.  We  may  understand  also,  however, 
from  the  same  central  fact,  why  it  is  that  the  doctrine 
of  the  Trinity  lies  in  the  XT  rather  in  the  form  of  allu- 
sions than  in  express  teaching,  why  it  is  rather  every- 
where presupposed,  coming  only  here  and  there  into 
incidental  expression,  than  formally  inculcated.  It  is 
because  the  revelation,  having  been  made  in  the  actual 
occurrences  of  redemption,  was  already  the  common 
property  of  all  Christian  hearts.  In  speaking  and  writ- 
ing to  one  another,  Christians,  therefore,  rather  spoke 
out  of  their  common  Trinitarian  consciousness,  and  re- 
minded one  another  of  their  common  fund  of  belief, 
than  instructed  one  another  in  what  was  already  the 
common  property  of  all.  We  are  to  look  for,  and  we 
shall  lind,  in  the  NT  allusions  to  the  Trinity,  nil  her  evi- 
dence of  how  the  Trinity,  believed  in  by  all,  was  con- 
ceived by  tho  authoritative  teachers  of  the  church,  than 
formal  attempts,  on  their  part,  by  authoritative  declara- 
tions, to  bring  the  church  into  the  understanding  that 
God  is  a  Trinity. 

The  fundamental  proof  that  Cod  is  a  Trinity  is 
supplied  thus  by  the  fundamental  revelation  of  the 

Trinity  in  fact:  that  is  to  say,  in  the 
9.  Implied  incarnation  of  Cod  the  Son  and  the 
in  the  outpouring  of  Cod  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Whole  NT  In  a  word,  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Holy 

Spirit  are  the  fundamental  proof  of 
the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity.  This  is  as  much  as  to 
say  that  all  the  evidence  of  whatever  kind,  and  from 
whatever  source  derived,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  Cod 
manifested  in  the  flesh,  and  that  the  Holy  Spirit  is 
a  Divine  Person,  is  just,  so  much  evidence  for  the 
doctrine  of  the  Trinity;  and  that  when  we  go  to  the 
NT  for  evidence  of  the  Trinity  we  are  to  seek  it,  not 
merely  in  the  scattered  allusions  to  the  Trinity  as 
such,  numerous  and  instructive  as  they  are,  but 
primarily  in  the  whole;  mass  of  evidence  which  the 
NT  provides  of  the  Deity  of  Christ  and  the  Divine 
personality  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Y\  hen  we  have  said 
this,  we  have  saiel  in  effect  that  the  whole  mass  of 
the  NT  is  evidence  for  the  Trinity.  For  the  NT 
is  saturated  with  evidence  e>f  the  Deity  of  Christ 
and  the  Divine1  personality  of  the>  Holy  Spirit. 
Precisely  what  the  NT  is,  is  the  documentation  of 
the  re'ligiem  of  the  incarnate'  Son  and  of  the  out- 
poured  Spirit,  that  is  to  say,  of  the-  re'ligiem  of  the; 
Trinity,  and  what  we  mean  by  the;  doctrine  of  the; 
Trinity  is  nothing  but  the  formulation  in  exact 
language  of  the'  conception  of  Ce>el  presupposed  in 
the  religion  e>f  the  incarnate;  Son  and  outpoured 
Spirit.  We  may  analyze  this  conception  and 
adduce  proof  fe>r  every  constituent  element  of  it 
from  the'  NT  declarations.  We  may  shew  thai  the- 
NT  everywhere  insists  on  the;  unity  of  the  Cod- 
head;  that  it  constantly  recognizes  the  Father  as 
Cod,  the  Son  as  Cexl  and  the;  Spirit  as  God;  and 
that  it  cursorily  presents  these  three  to  us  as  dis- 
tinct Persons.  It  is  not  nee-essary,  hewever,  to 
enlarge;  here  em  facts  so  obvious.  We  may  cemtent 
ourselves  with  simply  observing  that  te>  the1  NT 
there  is  but  one-  only  living  and  true  Cod;  but  that 
to  it  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Holy  Spirit  are;  eae-h  Getel 
in  the  fullest  sense  of  the;  term;  and  yet  Father, 
Son  and  Spirit  stand  over  against  each  other  as  1, 
and  Thou,  and  He.  In  this  composite:  fact  the  NT 
gives  us  the  doctrine  e>f  the  Trinity.  Fe>r  the'  ele>c- 
trine  e>f  the  Trinity  is  but  the  statement  in  we'll- 
guarded  language  of  this  composite  fact.  Through- 


Trinity 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3016 


out,  the  whole  course  of  Iho  miiny  efforts  to  formu- 
late the  doctrine  exactly,  which  have  followed  one 
another  during  the  entire  history  of  the  church, 
indeed,  the  principle  which  has  ever  determined 
the  result  has  always  been  determination  to  do 
justice  in  conceiving  the  relations  of  God  the 
Father,  (!od  the  Son  and  God  the  Spirit,  on  the 
one  hand  to  the  unity  of  God,  and,  on  the  other,  to 
the  true  Deity  of  the  Son  and  Spirit  and  their  dis- 
tinct personalities.  When  we  have  said  these  three 
things,  then — that  there  is  but  one  CJod,  that  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Spirit  is  each  God,  that 
the  Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Spirit,  is  each  a  dis- 
tinct person — we  have  enunciated  the  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity  in  its  completeness. 

That  this  doctrine  underlies  the  whole  NT  as  its 
constant  presupposition  and  determines  everywhere 
its  forms  of  expression  is  the  primary  fact  to  be 
noted.  Wo  must  not  omit  explicitly  to  note,  how- 
ever, that  it  now  and  again  also,  as  occasion  arises 
for  its  incidental  enunciation,  comes  itself  to  ex- 
pression in  more  or  less  completeness  of  statement. 
The  passages  in  which  the  three  Persons  of  the 
Trinity  are  brought  together  are  much  more  numer- 
ous than,  perhaps,  is  generally  supposed;  but  it 
should  be  recognized  that  the  formal  collocation 
of  the  elements  of  the  doctrine  naturally  is  rela- 
tively rare  in  writings  which  are  occasional  in  their 
origin  and  practical  rather  than  doctrinal  in  their 
immediate  purpose.  The  three  Persona  already 
come  into  view  as  Divine  Persons  in  the  annun- 
ciation of  the  birth  of  Our  Lord:  'The  Holy  Ghost 
shall  come  upon  thee,'  said  the  angel  to  Mary,  'and 
the  power  of  the  Most,  High  shall  overshadow  thee: 
wherefore  also  the  holy  thing  which  is  to  be  born 
shall  be  called  the  Son  of  God'  (Lk  1  35m;  cf  Mt 
1  18  ff).  Here  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the  active  agent 
in  the  production  of  an  effect  which  is  also  ascribed 
to  the  power  of  the  Most  High,  and  the  child  thus 
brought  into  the  world  is  given  the  great  desig- 
nation of  "Son  of  God."  The  three  Persons  are 
just  as  clearly  brought  before  us  in  the  account  of 
Mt  (1  18  ff),  though  the  allusions  to  them  are  dis- 
persed through  a  longer  stretch  of  narrative,  in  the 
course  of  which  the  Deity  of  the  child  is  twice  inti- 
mated (ver  21:  It  is  He  that  shall  save  His  people 
from  their  sins';  ver  23:  'They  shall  call  His  name 
Immanuel;  which  is,  being  interpreted,  (lod-irilh- 
?/*')•  I'1  the  baptismal  scene  which  finds  record  by 
all  the  evangelists  at  the  opening  of  Jesus'  minis- 
try (Mt  3  16.17;  Mk  1  10.11;  Lk  3  21.22;  Jn 
'\.  32-34),  the  three  Persona  are  thrown  up  to  sight 
in  a  dramatic  picture  in  which  the  Deity  of  each  is 
strongly  emphasized.  From  the  open  heavens  the 
Spirit  descends  in  visible  form,  and  'a  voice  came 
out  of  the  heavens,  Thou  art  my  Son,  the  Beloved, 
in  whom  I  am  well  pleased.'  Thus  care  seems  to 
have  been  taken  to  make  the  advent  of  the  Son  of 
God  into  the  world  the  revelation  also  of  the  Triune 
God,  that  the  minds  of  men  might  as  smoothly  as 
possible  adjust  themselves  to  the  preconditions  of 
the  Divine  redemption  which  was  in  process  of 
being  wrought  out. 

With  this  as  a  starting-point,  the  teaching  of 
Jesus  is  Trinitarianly  conditioned  throughout.  He 
has  much  to  say  of  God  His  Father, 
10.  Condi-  from  whom  as  His  Son  He  is  in  some 
tions  the  true  sense  distinct,  and  with  whom  He 
Whole  is  in  some  equally  true  sense  one.  And 

Teaching  of  He  has  much  to  say  of  the  Spirit,  who 
Jesus  represents  Him  as  He  represents  the 

Father,  and  by  whom  He  works  as 
the  Father  works  by  Him.  It  is  not  merely  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jn  that  such  representations  occur  in  the 
teaching  of  Jesus.  In  the  Synoptics,  too,  Jesus 
claims  a  Sonship  to  God  which  is  unique  (Mt  11 
27;  24  36;  Mk  13  32;  Lk  10  22;  in  the  following 


passages  the  title  of  "Son  of  God"  is  attributed  to 
Him  and  accepted  by  Him:  Mt  46;  8  29;  14  33; 
27  40.43.54;  Mk  3  11;  12  6-8;  15  30;  Lk  4  41; 
22  70;  cf  Jn  1  34.49;  9  35;  11  27),  and  which  in- 
volves an  absolute  community  between  the  two  in 
knowledge,  say,  and  power:  both  Mt  (11  27)  and  Lk 
(10  22)  record  His  great  declaration  that  He  knows 
the  Father  and  the  Father  knows  Him  with  perfect 
mutual  knowledge:  "No  one  knoweth  the  Son,  save 
the  Father;  neither  doth  any  know  the  Father,  save 
the  Son."  In  the  Synoptics,  too,  Jesus  speaks  of 
employing  the  Spirit  of  God  Himself  for  the  per- 
formance of  His  works,  as  if  the  activities  of  God 
were  at  His  disposal:  "I  by  the  Spirit  of  God" — or 
as  Lk  has  it,  ''by  the  finger  of  God" — "cast  out 
demons"  (Mt  12  "28;  Lk  11  20;  cf  the  promise  of 
the  Spirit  in  Mk  13  11;  Lk  12  12). 

It  is  in  the  discourses  recorded  in  Jn,  however,  that 
Jesus  most  copiously  refers  to  tho  unity  of  Himself,  as 
the  Son,  with  tho  Father,  and  to  the  mis- 
11  TTa+Vior  s'otl  °f  t'10  Spirit  from  Himself  as  tho 
j.i.  rctiner  dispenser  of  the  Divine  activities.  Hero 
and  Son  in  Hi-  not  only  with  great  directness  declares 
Tohannine  that  He  and  the  Father  are  one  (10  30; 
fv  ,  Cf  17  11.21.22.25)  with  a  unity  of  inter- 

'  penetration  ("  Tho  Father-  is  in  me,  and  I  in 
the  Father,"  10  3S;  cf  16  10.11),  so  that 
to  have  soon  Him  was  to  have  seen  the  Father  (14  9;  cf 
15  21);  hut  He  removes  all  doubt  as  to  the  essential 
nature  of  His  oneness  with  the  Fat  her  by  explicitly  assert- 
ing His  eternity  ("Before  Abraham  was  born,  I  am,"  Jn 
8  58),  His  co-eternity  with  (lod  ("had  with  thee  before 
the  world  was."  17  -r>:  cf  17  IS;  6  <>2),  His  eternal  par- 
ticipation in  the  Divine  glory  itself  ("tho  glory  which 
I  had  with  thee,"  in  fellowship,  community  with  Thee 
"before  the  world  was,"  17  5).  So  clear  is  it  that  in  speak- 
ing currently  of  Himself  as  God's  Son  (5  25;  9  35;  11  4; 
cf  10  30),  H(5  meant,  in  accordance  with  the  underlying 
significance  of  the  idea  of  sonship  in  Sem  speech  (founded 
on  the  natural  implication  that  whatever  the  father  is 
that  the  son  is  also;  cf  16  l-r>:  17  10),  to  make  Himself, 
as  the  Jews  with  exact  appreciation  of  His  meaning  per- 
ceived, "equal  witli  God  "  (5  IS'),  or,  to  put  it  brusquely, 
just  "God"  (10  33).  How  lie,  being  thus  equal  or  rather 
identical  with  God,  was  in  the  world,  He  ex  plains  as  involv- 
ing a  coming  forth  (e'fijAflor,  exfltlmn)  on  Plis  part,  not 
merely  from  the  presence  of  God  (arro,  ni>6,  16  -50;  cf  13 
3)  or  from  fellowship  with  God  (irapd,  p/in'i,  16  27;  17  S), 
but  from  out  of  God  Himself  (e\,  ek,  8  42;  16  2S).  And 
in  the  very  act  of  thus  asserting  that  His  eternal  home 
is  in  tho  depths  of  the  Divine  Being.  He  throws  up,  into 
as  strong  an  emphasis  as  stressed  pronouns  can  convey, 
His  personal  distinctness  from  the  Father.  'If  God 
were  your  Father,'  says  He  (8  42),  'ye  would  love  me: 
for  I  came  forth  and  am  come  ont  of  God;  for  neither 
havo  I  come  of  myself,  but  it  was  He  that  sent  me.' 
Again,  Ho  says  (16  20.27):  'In  that  day  ye  shall  ask 
in  my  name:  'and  I  say  not  unto  you  that  7  will  make 
request  of  the  Father  for  you;  for  the,  Father  Ilimtclf 
loveth  you,  because  yo  have  loved  me,  and  have  believed 
that  it'was  from  fellowship  with  the  Father  that  /  came 
forth;  I  came  from  out  of  tho  Father,  and  have  come 
into  tho  world.'  Less  pointedly,  but  still  distinctly, 
He  says  again  (17  8):  'They  know  of  a  truth  that  it 
was  from  fellowship  with  Thee,  that  I  camo  forth,  and  1  hoy 
believed  that  it  was  Thou  that  didst  send  me.'  It  is 
not  necessary  to  illustrate  more  at  large  a  form  of  expres- 
sion so  characteristic  of  the  discourses  of  Our  Lord  re- 
corded by  Jn  that  it  meets  ns  on  every  page:  a  form  of 
expression  which  combines  a  clear  implication  of  a  unity 
of  Father  and  Son  which  is  identity  of  Being,  and  ah 
equally  clear  implication  of  a  distinction  of  Person  be- 
tween them  such  as  allows  not  merely  for  the  play  of 
emotions  between  them,  as,  for  instance,  of  love  (17  24; 
cf  15  9  [3  35];  14  31),  but  also  of  an  action  and  reaction 
upon  one  another  which  argues  a  high  measure,  if  not 
of  exteriority,  yet  certainly  of  exteriorization.  Thus, 
to  instance  only  one  of  the  most  outstanding  facts  of 
Our  Lord's  discourses  (not  indeed  confined  to  those  in 
John's  Gospel,  but  found  also  in  His  sayings  recorded  in 
the  Synoptists,  as  e.g.  Lk  4  43  [cf  j  Mk  1  38];  9  48; 
10  in;  4  34;  5  32;  7  19;  19  10),  He  continually  rep- 
resents Himself  as  on  the  one  hand  sent  by  God,  and  as, 
on  the  other,  having  come  forth  from  the  Father  (e.g. 
Jn  8  42;  10  36;  17  3;  5  23,  et  saepe). 

It  is  more  important  to  point  out  that  these  phe- 
nomena of  interrelationship  are  not  confined  to  the 
Father  and  Son,  but  arc  extended  also  to 
12.  Spirit  in  the  Spirit.  Thus,  for  example,  in  a  con- 
Tnhanninp  tvat  in  which  Our  Lord  had  emphasized 
jonann  jn  tjle  strongest  manner  His  own  essen- 

DlSCOurseS  tial  unity  and  continued  interpenetration 
with  the  Father  ("  If  ye  had  known  me,  ye 
would  have  known  my  Father  also"  ;  "He  that  hath  seen 
me  hath  seen  the  Father";  "I  am  in  the  Father,  and  the 
Father  in  me";  "The  Father  abiding  in  me  doethhis 


3017 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trinity 


works,"  Jti  14  7.0.101.  wo  read  ;is  follows  (Jn  14  1<>-2C»: 
'And  /  will  make  request,  of  the  Fatlnr.  and  He  shall 
give  you  nnnthiT  [thus  sharply  distinguished  from  Our 
Lord"  as  a  distinct  Person]  Advocate,  that  lie  may  be 
with  you  forever,  the  Spirit  of  Truth  ....  He  ahideth 
with  you  and  shall  bo  in  you.  I  will  not  leave  you 

orphans;  I  come  unto  you In  that  day  ye  shall 

know  that  I  am  in  the  Father If  a  man  love  me, 

he  will  keep  my  word;  and  my  Father  will  love;  him  and 
we  [t  hat  is,  but  h  Fat  her  and  Son]  will  come,  unto  him  and 

make  our  abode;  with  him These  things  have  I 

spoken  unto  you  while  abiding  with  you.  But  the 
Advocate,  the  Holy  Spirit,  whom  the  Father  will  send 
in  my  name,  II i-  shall  teach  you  all  things,  and  bring  to 
your  remembrance  all  that  7  said  unto  you.'  It  would 
be  impossible  to  speak  more  distinctly  of  three  who  were 
yet  one.  The  Father,  Son  and  Spirit  are  constantly 
distinguished  from  one  another — the  Son  makes  request 
of  the  Father,  and  the  Father  in  response  to  this  request 
gives  an  Advocate,  "another"  than  the  Son,  who  is  sent 
in  the  Son's  name.  And  yet  the  oneness  of  these  three 
is  so  kept  in  sight  that  the  coming  of  this  "another  Ad- 
vocate" is  spoken  of  without  embarrassment  as  the 
coming  of  the  Son  Himself  (vs  IS. 19. 20. 21 ),  and  indeed 
as  the  coming  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  (ver  23).  There 
is  a  sense,  then,  in  which,  when  Christ  goes  away,  the 
Spirit  comes  in  His  stead;  there  is  also  a  sense  in  which, 
when  the  Spirit  comes,  Christ  comes  in  Him;  and  with 
Christ's  coming  the  Father  comes  too.  There  is  a  dis- 
tinction between  the  Persons  brought  into  view;  and 
with  it  an  identity  among  them;  for  both  of  which 
allowance  must  bo  made.  The  same  phenomena  meet 
us  in  other  passages.  Thus,  wo  read  again  (15  20): 
'  But  when  there  is  come  the  Advocate  whom  I  will  send 
unto  you  from  [fellowship  with]  the  Father,  the  Spirit 
of  Truth,  which  goeth  forth  from  [fellowship  with]  the 
Father,  He  shall  bear  witness  of  inc.'  In  the  compass 
of  this  single  verso,  it  is  intimated  that  the  Spirit  is  per- 
sonally distinct  from  the  Son,  and  yet,  like  Him,  has  His 
eternal  homo  (in  fellowship)  with  the  Father,  from  whom 
He,  like  the  Son,  comes  forth  for  His  saying  work,  being 
sent  thereunto,  however,  uot  in  this  instance  by  the 
Father,  but  by  the  Son. 

This  last  feature  is  even  more  strongly  emphasized  in 
yet  another  passage  in  which  the  work  of  the  Spirit  in 
relation  to  the  Son  is  presented  as  closely  parallel  with 
the  work  of  the  Son  in  relation  to  the  Father  (16  -r,  fT). 
'But  now  I  go  unto  Him  that  sent  me Never- 
theless /  tell  you  the  truth;  it  is  expedient  for  you  that 
7  go  away;  for,  if  I  go  not  away  the  Advocate;  will  not 
come  unto  you;  but  if  I  go  I  will  send  Him  unto  you. 
And  HP,  after  Ho  is  come,  will  convict  the  world  .... 
of  righteousness  because  I  go  to  the  Father  and  ye  be- 
hold mo  no  more I  have;  yet  many  things  to  say 

unto  you,  but  ye  cannot  bear  them  now.  Howbeit  when 
He,  the  Spirit  of  truth  is  come,  He  shall  guide  you  into 
all  the  truth;  for  He  shall  not  speak  from  Himself;  but 
what  things  soever  He  shall  hear,  Ho  shall  speak,  and 
Ho  shall  declare  unto  you  the  things  that  are  to  come. 
He  shall  glorify  me:  for  He  shall  take  of  mine  and  shall 
show  it  unto  you.  All  things  whatsoever  the  Father 
hath  are  mine:  therefore  said  I  that  Ho  taketh  of  mine, 
and  shall  declare  it  unto  you.'  Hero  the  Spirit  is  sent 
by  the  Son,  and  comes  in  order  to  complete  and  apply 
the  Son's  work,  receiving  His  whole  commission  from  the 
Son — not,  however,  in  derogation  of  the  Father,  because 
when  we  speak  of  the  things  of  the  Son,  that  is  to  speak 
of  the  things  of  the  Father. 

It  is  not  to  bo  said,  of  course,  that  the  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity  is  formulated  in  passages  like  these,  with  which 
the  whole  mass  of  Our  Lord's  discourses  in  Jn  are  strewn; 
but  it  certainly  is  presupposed  in  them,  and  that  is,  con- 
sidered from  the  point  of  view  of  their  probative  force, 
even  better.  As  wo  road  wo  are  kept  in  continual  con- 
tact with  three  Persons  who  act,  each  as  a  distinct  per- 
son, and  yet  who  an;  in  a  deep,  underlying  sense,  one. 
There  is  but  one;  God — there  is  never  any  question  of 
that — and  yet  this  Son  who  has  been  sent  into  the  world 
by  God  not  only  represents  God  but  is  God,  and  this 
Spirit  whom  the  Son  has  in  turn  sent  unto  the  world  is 
also  Himself  God.  Nothing  could  bo  clearer  than  that 
the  Son  and  Spirit  are  distinct  Persons,  unless  indeed  it 
b"  that  the  Son  of  Cod  is  just  God  the  Son  and  the  Spirit 
of  <  iod  just  God  the  Spirit. 

Meanwhile,  the  nearest  approach  to  a  formal 
announcement  of  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  which 

is  recorded  from  Our  Lord's  lips,  or, 
13.  The  perhaps  we  may  say,  which  is  to  he 
Baptismal  found  in  the  whole  compass  of  the  NT, 
Formula  lias  been  preserved  for  us,  not  by  John, 

but  by  one  of  the  synoptists.  It  too, 
however,  is  only  incidentally  introduced,  and  has 
for  its  main  object  something  very  different  from 
formulating  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity.  It  is  em- 
bodied in  the  great  commission  which  the  resur- 
re:-tcd  Lord  gave  His  disciples  to  be  their  "marching 
orders"  "even  unto  the  end  of  the  world":  "Go 


ye  therefore,  and  make  disciples  of  all  the  nations, 
baptizing  them  into  the  name  of  the  Father  and 
of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Spirit"  (Mt  28  I'.);. 
In  seeking  to  estimate  the  significance  of  this  great 
declaration,  we  must  bear  in  mind  the  high  solem- 
nity of  the  utterance,  by  which  we  are  required  to 
give  its  full  value  to  every  word  of  it .  Its  phrasing 
is  in  any  event,  however,  remarkable.  It  does  not 
say,  "In  the  names  [plural]  of  the  Father  and  of  the 
Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost";  nor  yet  (what  might 
be  taken  to  be  equivalent  to  that ),  "In  1  he  name  of 
the  Father,  and  in  the  name  of  the  Son,  and  in  the 
name  of  the  Holy  Ghost,"  as  if  we  had  to  deal  with 
three _  separate  Beings.  Nor,  on  the  other  hand, 
does  it  say,  "In  the  name  of  the  Father,  Son  and 
Holy  Ghost,"  as  if  "the  Father,  Son  and  Holy 
Ghost1'  might  be  taken  as  merely  three  designat  ions 
of  a  single  person.  With  stately  impressiveness  it 
asserts  the  unity  of  the  three  by  combining  them 
all  within  the  bounds  of  the  single  Name;  and  then 
throws  up  into  emphasis  the  distinctness  of  each 
by  introducing  them  in  turn  with  the  repeated 
article:  "In  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost"  (AV).  These  three,  the 
Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  each  stand 
in  some  clear  sense  over  against  the  others  in  dis- 
tinct personality:  these  three,  the  Father,  and  the 
Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  all  unite  in  some  profound 
sense  in  the  common  participat  ion  of  the  one  Name. 
Fully  to  comprehend  the  implication  of  this  mode 
of  statement,  we  must  bear  in  mind,  further,  the 
significance  of  the  term,  "the  name,"  and  the  asso- 
ciations laden  with  which  it  came  to  the  recipients 
of  this  commission.  For  the  Hebrew  did  not  think 
of  the  name,  as  we  are  accustomed  to  do,  as  a  mere 
external  symbol;  but  rather  as  the  adequate  ex- 
pression of  the  innermost  being  of  its  bearer.  In 
His  Name  the  Being  of  God  finds  expression;  and 
the  Name  of  God — "this  glorious  and  fearful  name, 
Jeh  thy  God"  (Dt  28  58) — was  accordingly  a  most 
sacred  thing,  being  indeed  virtually  equivalent  to 
God  Himself.  It  is  no  solecism,  therefore,  when 
we  read  (Isa  30  27),  "Behold,  the  name  of  Jeh 
comet  h";  and  the  parallelisms  are  most  instruct- 
ive when  we  read  (Isa  69  19):  'So  shall  they  fear 
the  Name  of  Jeh  from  the  west,  and  His  glory  from 
the  rising  of  the  sun;  for  He  shall  come  as  a  stream 
pent  in  which  the  Spirit  of  Jeh  drivel  h.'  So  preg- 
nant was  the  implication  of  the  Name,  that  it  was 
possible  for  the  term  to  stand  absolutely,  without 
adjunction  of  the  name  itself,  as  the  sufficient  rep- 
resentative of  the  majesty  of  Jeh:  it  was  a  terrible 
thing  to  'blaspheme  the  Name'  (Lev  24  11).  All 
those  over  whom  Jeh's  Name  was  called  were  His, 
His  possession  to  whom  He  owed  protection.  It  is 
for  His  Name's  sake,  therefore,  that  afflicted  Judah 
cries  to  the  Hope  of  Israel,  the  Saviour  thereof  in 
time  of  trouble:  'O  Jeh,  Thou  art  in  the  midst  of 
us,  and  Thy  Name  is  called  upon  us;  leave  us  not' 
(Jer  14  9);  and  His  people  find  the  appropriate 
expression  of  their  deepest  shame  in  the  lament, 
'We  have  become  as  they  over  whom  Thou  never 
barest  rule;  as  they  upon  whom  Thy  Name  was 
not  called'  (Isa,  63'  19);  while  the  height  of  joy 
is  attained  in  the  cry,  'Thy  Name,  Jeh,  God  of 
Hosts,  is  called  upon  me'  (Jer  15  1(1;  cf  2  Ch  7 
14;  Dnl  9  1S.19).  When,  then-fore,  Our  Lord 
commanded  His  disciples  to  baptize  those  whom 
they  brought  to  His  obedience  "into  the  name  of 
....,"  He  was  using  language  charged  to  them  with 
high  meaning.  He  could  not  have  been  understood 
otherwise  than  as  substituting  for  the  Name  of 
Jeh  this  other  Name  "of  t  he  Father,  and  of  the 
Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost";  and  this  could  not 
possibly  have  meant  to  His  disciples  anything  C!M' 
than  that  Jeh  was  now  to  be  known  to  I  hem  by  the 
new  Name,  of  t  he  Father,  and  the  Son,  and  thelloh 


Trinity 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3018 


Ghost.  The  only  alternative  would  have  been  that, 
for  the  community  which  He  was  founding,  Jesus 
was  supplanting  -Jeh  by  a  new  God;  and  this  alter- 
native is  no  less  than  monstrous.  There  is  no 
alternative,  therefore,  to  understanding  Jesus  hero 
to  be  giving  for  His  community  a  new  Name  to 
Jeh,  and  that  new  Name  to  be  the  threefold  Name 
of  "the  Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost." 
Nor  is  there  room  for  doubt  that  by  "the  Son"  in 
this  threefold  Name,  He  meant  just  Himself  with 
all  the  implications  of  distinct  personality  which 
this  carries  with  it;  and,  of  course,  that  further 
carries  with  it  the  equally  distinct  personality 
of  "the  Father"  and  "the  Holy  Ghost,"  with 
whom  "the  Son"  is  here  associated,  and  from  whom 
alike  "the  Son"  is  here  distinguished.  This  is  :i 
direct  ascription  to  Jeh,  the  God  of  Israel,  of  a  three- 
fold personality,  and  is  therewith  the  direct  enun- 
ciation of  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity.  Wo  are  not 
witnessing  hen;  the  birth  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity;  that  is  presupposed.  What  wo  are  wit- 
nessing is  the  authoritative  announcement  of  the 
Trinity  as  the  God  of  Christianity  by  its  Founder, 
in  one  of  the  most  solemn  of  His  recorded  declara- 
tions. Israel  had  worshipped  the  one  only  true  God 
under  the  Name  of  Jeh;  Christians  are  to  worship 
the  same  one  only  and  true  God  under  the^Name 
of  "the  Father,  and  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost." 
This  is  the  distinguishing  characteristic  of  Chris- 
tians; and  that  is  as  much  as  to  say  that,  the  doc- 
trine of  the  Trinity  is,  according  to  Our  Lord's  own 
apprehension  of  it,  the  distinctive  mark  of  the  reli- 
gion which  He  founded. 

\  passage  of  such  range  of  implication  ha*.  <>f  course, 

not  ivcaped  criticism  and  challenge.      An  attempt  which 

cannot    lie    characterized    as    other    than 

.,  .     ~  frivolous    has  even   hern    Tiia.de   to  dismiss 

14.  Lren-         it-    f,.om    the    text    of    Matthew's    Gospel, 
llineness  of    Against,  this,   the   whole   body   of  external 
'RantiQmal        evidence  cries  out;     and   the  internal  cvi- 

,  dence  is  of  itself  not  less  decisive  to  the  same 

formula  rireet.  When  the  " universalism,"  "ec- 
clesiasticism."  and  "high  theology"  of 
the  passage  are  pleaded  against  its  genuineness,  it  is  for- 
gotten that  to  the  Jesus  of  Mt  there  are  attributed  not 
only  such  parables  as  those  of  the  heaven  and  the  Mustard 
Seed,  but  such  declarations  as  those  contained  in  8  ll.li>; 
21  4:5'  24  it;  that  in  this  Gospel  alone  is  Jesus  recorded 
as  speaking  familiarly  about  His  church  (16  is;  18  I7i; 
and  that,  after  the  great  declaration  of  11  27  If,  nothing 
remained  in  lofty  attribution  to  be  assigned  to  Him. 
When  these  same  objections  are  urged  against  recog- 
ni/.ing  the  passage  as  an  authentic  saying  of  Jesus'  own. 
it  is  quite  obvious  that  the  Jesus  of  the  evangelists 
cannot  be  in  mind.  The  declaration  here  recorded  is 
quite  in  character  with  the  Jesus  of  Matthew's  Gospel, 
as  has  just,  been  intimated  ;  and  no  less  with  the  Jesus  of 
the  whole  NT  transmission.  It  will  scarcely  do,  first  to 
construct  a  priori  a  Jesus  to  our  own  liking,  and  then  to 
discard  as  "  unllistorical"  all  in  the  NT  transmission 
which  would  be  unnatural  to  such  a  Jesus.  It  is  nut 
these  discarded  passages  but  our  a  priori  Jesus  which  is 
unllistorical.  In  the  present  instance,  moreover,  the 
historicity  of  the  assailed  saying  is  protected  by  an  im- 
portant historical  relation  in  which  it  stands.  It  is  not 
merely  Jesus  who  speaks  out  of  a  Trinitarian  conscious- 
ness, 'but  all  the  XT  writers  as  well.  The  universal 
possession  by  His  followers  of  so  firm  a  hold  on  such  a 
doctrine  requires  the  assumption  that  some  such  teaching 
as  is  hero  attributed  to  Him  was  actually  contained  in 
Jesus'  instructions  to  His  followers.  Even  had  it  not 
been  attributed  to  Him  in  so  many  words  by  the  record, 
we  should  have  had  to  assume!  that  some  such  declara- 
tion had  been  made  by  Him.  In  these  circumstances, 
there  can  be  no  good  reason  to  doubt  that  it  was  made 
by  Him.  when  it  is  expressly  attributed  to  Him  by  the 
record. 

When  we  turn  from  the  discourses  of  Jesus  to  the 

writings  of  His  followers  with  a  view  to  observing 

how   the  assumption   of   the  doctrine 

15.  Paul's      of   the   Trinity   underlies   their   whole 
Trinita-          fabric  also,  wo  naturally  go  first  of  all 
rianism          to  the  letters  of  Paul.     Their  very  mass 

is  impressive;  and  the  definiteness  with 
which  their  composition  within  a  generation  of  the 
death  of  Jesus  may  be  fixed  adds  importance  to 
them  as  historical  witnesses.  Certainly  they  leave 


nothing  to  bo  desired  in  the  richness  of  their  testi- 
mony to  the  Trinitarian  conception  of  God  which 
underlies  them.  Throughout  the  whole  series,  from 

1  Thess,  which  comes  from  about  52  AD,  to  2  Tim, 
which  was  written  about  OS  AD,  the  redemption, 
which  it  is  their  one  business  to  proclaim  and  corn- 
mend,  and  all  the  blessings  which  enter  into  it  or 
accompany  it  are  referred  consistently  to  a  three- 
fold   Divine    causation.     Everywhere,    throughout 
their  pages,  God  the  Father,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  the  Holy  Spirit  appear  as  the  joint  objects  of 
all  religious  adoration,  and  the  conjunct  source  of 
all  Divine  operations.     In  the  freedom  of  the  allu- 
sions which  are  made  to  them,  now  and  again  one 
alone  of  the  three  is  thrown  up  into  prominent  view; 
but  more  often  two  of  them  are  conjoined  in  thanks- 
giving or  prayer;    and   not    infrequently   all   three 
arc  brought  together  as  the  apostle  strives  to  give 
some  adequate  expression  to  his  sense  of  indebt- 
edness to  the  Divine  source  of  all  good  for  blessings 
received,  or  to  his  longing  on  behalf  of  himself  or 
of  his  readers  for  further  communion  with  the  God 
of  grace.     It  is  regular  for  him  to  begin  his  Epp. 
with  a  prayer  for  "grace  and  peace"  for  his  readers, 
"from  God  our  Father,  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ," 
as   the   joint   source  of   these   Divine  blessings  by 
way  of  eminence  (Rom  17;    1  Cor  1  3;   2  Cor  1 
2;  "Gal  1  3;   Eph  1  2;    Phil  1  2;  2  Thess  1  2;    1 
Tim  1  2;    2  Tim  1  2;    Philem  ver  3;    of  1   Thess 
11).     It  is  obviously  no  departure  from  this  habit 
in    the  essence  of  the  matter,  but  only  in   relative 
fulness  of  expression,  when  in  the  opening  words  of 
the  Ep.  to  the  Col,  the  clause  "and  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ"  is  omitted,  and  we  read  merely:    "Grace  to 
you   and   peace   from   God   our   Father."     So  also 
it    would   have  been   no  departure  from   it  in    the 
essence  of  the  matter,  but  only  in  relative  fulness  of 
expression,  if  in  any  instance  the  name  of  the;  Holy 
Spirit  had  chanced  to  be  adjoined  to  the  other  two, 
as  in  the  single  instance  of  2  Cor  13  14  it  is  ad- 
joined to  them  in  the  closing  prayer  for  grace  with 
which  Paid  ends  his  letters,  and  which  ordinarily 
takes  the  simple  form  of,  "the  grace  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  be  with  you"  (Rom  16  20;    1  Cor  16 
23;   Gal  6  IS;   Phil  4  23;    1  Thess  5  28;   2  Thess 
3  18;    Philem  ver  2o;   more  expanded  form,  Eph 
6  23.24;     more    compressed,    Col  4  18;      1  Tim  6 
21;  2  Tim  4  22;  Tit  3  If)).     Between  these  open- 
ing and  closing  passages  the  allusions  to  God  the 
Father,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  Holy  Spirit 
are  constant  and  most  intricately  interlaced.     Paul's 
monotheism  is  intense:   the  first  premise  of  all  his 
thought  on  Divine  things  is  the  unity  of  God  (Rom 
3  30;     1  Cor  8  4;     Gal  3  20;     Eph  4  G;     1  Tim 

2  :>;    cf  Rom  16  22;    1  Tim  1  17).     Yet  to  him 
God  the  Father  is  no  more  God  than  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ    is   God,   or   the   Holy   Spirit   is   God.     The 
Spirit  of  God  is  to  him  related  to  God  as  the  spirit 
of  man  is  to  man  (1    Cor  2   11),  and  therefore  if  the 
Spirit  of  God  dwells  in  us,  that  is  God  dwelling  in 
us  (Rom  8  lOffj,  and  we  are  by  that  fact  consti- 
tuted temples  of  God   (1  Cor  3  10).     And  no  ex- 
pression is  loo  strong  for  him  to  use  in  order  to 
assert,  the  Godhead  of  Christ :  He  is  "our  great  God" 
(Tit  2  13);   He  is  "God  over  all"  (Rom  9  5);   and 
indeed  it  is  expressly  declared  of  Him  that  the  "ful- 
ness  of    the    Godhead,"    that   is,    everything   that 
enters  into  Godhead  and  constitutes  it  Godhead, 
dwells  in  Him.     In  the  very  act  of  asserting  his 
monotheism    Paul    takes    Our    Lord    up   into   this 
unique   Godhead.      "There  is   no   God   but    one," 
lie  roundly  asserts,  and  then  illustrates  and  proves 
this  assertion  by  remarking  that  the  heathen  may 
have  "gods  many,  and  lords  many,"  but  "to  us  there 
is  one  God,  the  Father,  of  whom  are  all  things,  and 
we  unto  him;    and  one  Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  through 
whom  are  all  things,  and  we  through  him"  (1  Cor 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trinity 


8  (»).  Obviously,  I  his  "one  God,  the  Father,"  and 
"one  Lord,  .Jesus  Christ,"  are  embraced  together  in 
the  one  God  who  alone  is.  Paul's  conception  of  the- 
one  C.od,  whom  alone  he  worships,  includes,  in  other 
words,  a  recognition  that  within  the  unity  of  His 
Being,  there  exists  such  a  distinction  of  Persons  as 
.is  given  us  in  the  "one  (lod,  the  Father"  and  the 
"one  Lord,  Jesus  Christ ." 

In  numerous  passages  scattered  through  PauFs 
Epp.,  from  the  earliest  of  them  (1  Thess  1  2  f>; 
'2  Thess  2  KM  1)  to  the  latest  (Tit 
16.  Con-  3  1  0;  2  Tim  1  3.13.1 4),  all  three 
junction  of  Persons,  (lod  the  Father,  the  Lord 
the  Three  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  are 
in  Paul  brought  together,  in  the  most  inci- 

dental   manner,    as    co-sources    of    all 
the   saving    blessings    which    come    to    believers    in 
Christ.     A   typical  series  of  such  passages  may  be 
found  in  Ep'h  2  is;  3  2-5.14.17;  4  4-0;  6  1S-20. 
But  the  most,   interesting  instances  an;  offered   to 
us  perhaps  by  the  Epp.  to  the  Cor.      In   1  Cor  12 
4-6  Paul  presents  the  abounding  spiritual  gifts  with 
which  the  church  was  blessed  in  a  threefold  aspect, 
and  connects  these  aspects  with  the  three  Divine 
Persons.     "Now  there  are  diversities _ of  gifts,  _but 
the  same  Spirit.     And  there  are  diversities  of  minis- 
trations, and  the  same  Lord.     And  there  are  diver- 
sities of  workings,  but  the  same  Clod,  who  worketh 
all  things  in  all."     It  may  be  thought  that  there  is  a 
measure  of  what  might  almost  be  called  artificiality 
in  assigning  the  endowments  of  the  church,  as  they 
are  graces  to  t  he  Spirit ,  as  t  hey  are  services  to  Christ , 
and  as  they  an;  energi/ings  to  (lod.     But  thus  there 
is  only  the  more  strikingly  revealed  the  underlying 
Trinitarian  conception  as  dominating  the  structure 
of  the  clauses:    Paul  clearly  so  writes,  not  because 
'"gifts,"   "workings,"   "operations"  stand  out  in  his 
thought  as  greatly  diverse  things,  but  because  Cod, 
the  Lord,  and  the  Spirit  lie  in  the  back  of  his  mind 
constantly  suggesting  a  threefold  causality  behind 
every  manifestation  of  grace.     The  Trinity  is  al- 
luded to  rather  than  asserted;    but  it-  is  so  alluded 
to  as  to  show  that  it  constitutes  the  determining 
basis  of  all  Paul's  thought  of  the  God  of  redemption. 
Even  more  instructive  is  2  Cor  13  14,  which  has 
passed  into  general  liturgical  use  in  the  churches  as 
a  benediction:  "The  grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  the  love  of  God,  and  the  communion  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  be  with  you  all."     Here  the  three  highest 
redemptive    blessings    are    brought    together,    and 
attached  distributively  to  the  three  Persons  of  the 
Triune  God.     There  is   again   no   formal  teaching 
of  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity;   there  is  only  another 
instance  of  natural  speaking  out  of  a  Trinitarian 
consciousness.     Paul    is    simply    thinking    of    the 
Divine   source   of    these   great    blessings;     but    IK; 
habitually  thinks  of  this  Divine  source  of  redemptive 
blessings  after  a  trinal  fashion.     He  therefore  does 
not  say,  as  he  might  just  as  well  have  said,  "The 
grace  and  love  and  communion  of  God  be  with  you 
all,"  but  "The  grace  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
the  love  of  God,  and  the  communion  of  the  Holy 
Spirit,  be  with  you  all."     Thus_  he  bears,  almost 
unconsciously  but  most  richly,  witness  to  the  trinal 
composition  "of  the  Godhead  as  conceived  by  Him. 
The  phenomena  of  Paul's  Epp.  are  repeated  in 
the  other  writings  of  the  NT.     In  these  other  writ- 
ings also  it  is  everywhere  assumed  that 
17.  Trini-      the  redemptive  activities  of  God  rest 
tarianism  of  on    a    threefold    source    in    God    the 
Other  NT      Father,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the 
Writers          Holy  Spirit;    and  these  three  Persons 
repeatedly   come  forward   together   in 
the  expressions  of  Christian  hope  or  the  aspirations 
of  Christian   devotion   (e.g.   He  2  3.4;    6  4-6;    10 
29-31;   1  Pet  1  2;  2  3-12;  4  13-19;   1  Jn  6  4-S; 
Jude  vs  20.21;     Rev  1  4-6).     Perhaps  as  typical 


instances  as  any  are  supplied  by  the  l\vo  following: 
"According  to  the  foreknowledge  of  God  I  he  !•  at  her, 
in  sanctification  of  the  Spirit,  unto  obedience  and 
sprinkling  of  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ."  (1  Pet  1  2j; 
"Praying  in  the  Holy  Spirit,  keep  yourselves  in  the 
love  of  God,  looking  for  t  he  mercy  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  unto  eternal  life"  (Jude  vs  20.21  ).  To  t  he<e 
may  be  added  the  highly  symbolical  instance  irorn 
(lie  Apocalypse:  'Grace  to  you  and  peace  from 
Him  which  is  and  was  and  which  is  to  come;  and 
from  the  Seven  Spirits  which  arc  before  His  throne; 
and  from  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the  faithful  \silness, 
the  firstborn  of  the  dead,  and  the  ruler  of  the  kings 
of  the  earth'  (Rev  1  4.f>i.  Clearly  these  writers, 
too,  write  out  of  a  fixed  Trinitarian  consciousness 
and  bear  their  testimony  to  the  universal  under- 
standing current  in  apostolical  circles.  Everywhere 
and  by  all  it  was  fully  understood  that  the  one  God 
whom  Christians  worshipped  and  from  whom  alone 
they  expected  redemption  and  all  that  redemption 
brought,  with  it,  included  within  His  iindiminished 
unity  the  three:  God  the  Father,  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  the  Holy  Spirit,  whose  aetivitie-s  rela- 
tively to  one  another  are  conceived  as  distinctly 
personal.  This  is  the  uniform  and  pervasive  testi- 
mony of  the  NT,  and  it  is  the  more  impressive  that 
it  is  given  with  such  unstudied  naturalness  and 
simplicity,  with  no  effort  to  distinguish  between 
what  have  come  to  be  called  the  ontological  and  the 
economical  aspects  of  the  Trinitarian  distinctions, 
and  indeed  without  apparent  consciousness  of  the 
existence;  of  such  a  (list  inct  ion  of  aspects.  Whethi-r 
God  is  thought  of  in  Himself  or  in  His  operations, 
the  underlying  conception  runs  unaffectedly  into 
trinal  forms. 

It    will   not    have   escapee 
Trinitarian    terminology    of 

writers    of    the 

iele-ntical    with 

recorded    for 


18.  Varia- 
tions in 
Nomen- 
clature 


1   observation    that    the 

Paul    and    the    either 

NT    is    not    pree-iscly 

that    of    Our    Lorel    as 

us     in     His    discourses. 


Paul,  for  example — anel  the  same'  is 
true;  of  the  other  NT  writers  (except 
John) — does  not  speak,  as  Our  Lorel 
is  rccoreled  as  speaking,  of  the  Father,  the-  Son,  and 
the  Holy  Spirit,  so  much  as  of  Goel,  the'  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  anel  the  He)ly  Spirit.  This  difference  of 
terminology  finds  its  account  in  large  measure  in 
the  different  reflations  in  which  the>  speakers  stand 
to  the;  Trinity.  Our  Lorel  coulel  not  naturally 
speak  of  Himself,  as  one  of  the  Trinitarian  Persons, 
by  the  designation  of  "the  Lord,"  whil<>  the  desig- 
nation of  "the  Son,"  expressing  as  it  eloe-s  His  con- 
sciousness of  e'leise1  relation,  anel  indeed  of  exact 
similarity,  to  Goel,  came  naturally  to  His  lips.  But 
He  was  Paul's  Lord;  and  Paul  naturally  thought 
anel  spe)ke  of  Him  as  such.  In  point  of  fact ,  "Lorel" 
is  erne  of  Paul's  favorite  designations  of  Christ,  anel 
indee;d  has  become;  with  him  practically  a  preiper 
name  fe>r  Christ,  and  in  pe>int  of  fae-t,  his  Divine 
Name  for  Christ.  It  is  naturally,  therefore,  his 
Trinitarian  name  fe>r  Christ.  Because  when  he 
thinks  of  Christ  as  Divine'  he  calls  Him  "Lord," 
he  naturally,  when  he  thinks  of  the  three  IVrsor.s 
toge'ther  as  the  Triune  Cod,  sets  Him  as  "Lorel" 
by  the  side  of  Ce>el — Paul's  constant  name  for  ''the 
Father" — and  the  Heily  Spirit .  Question  may  no 
doubt  be  raised  whether  it  wemld  have  been  possible 
for  Paul  te>  have  done  this,  esp.  with  the-  constane-y 
with  which  he  has  deme  it,  if,  in  his  conception  of 
it,  the  very  essence  of  the  Trinity  were  enshrined  in 
the  terms  "Father"  and  "Son."  Paid  is  thinking  yf 
the  Trinity,  to  be  sure1,  from  the  point  of  view  of  a 
worshipper,  rather  than  from  that  of  a  systematizer. 
He  designates  the-  Persons  of  the  Trinity  there-fe ire- 
rat  her  from  his  relations  to  them  than  from  their 
relations  te>  one  another.  He-  sees  in  the  Trinity 
his  God,  his  Lord,  and  the  Holy  Spirit  who  elwe-lls 


Trinity 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3020 


in  him;  :tinl  naturally  ho  so  speaks  currently  of  < he 
throe1  Persons.  It  remains  remarkable,  neverthe- 
less, if  the  very  essence  of  the  Trinity  \vere  thought 
of  by  him  as  resident,  in  the  terms,  "Father,"  "Son," 
that  in  his  numerous  allusions  to  the  Trinity  in  the 
Coelhe'ad,  he  never  betrays  any  sense  of  this.  It.  is 
not  iceable  also  that  in  their  allusions  to  the  Trinity, 
there  is  preserved,  neither  in  Paul  nor  in  the  other 
writers  of  the  NT,  the  order  of  the  names  as  they 
stand  in  Our  Lord's  great,  declaration  (Alt-  28  19). 
The  reverse  order  occurs,  indeed,  occasionally,  as, 
for  example,  in  1  Cor  12  4-0  (ef  Eph  4.  4  ('»;  and 
this  may  bo  understood  as  a  climactic  arrangement 
and  so  far  a  testimony  to  the  order  of  Mt  28  11). 
But  the  order  is  very  variable;  and  in  the  most 
formal  enumeration  of  the  three  Persons,  that  of 
2  Cor  13  14,  it  stands  \\ui<:  Lord,  (!od,  Spirit. 
The  question  naturally  suggests  itself  whether  the 
order  Fat  her,  Son,  Spirit  was  esp.  significant  to 
Paul  and  his  fellow-writers  of  the  NT.  If  in  their 
conviction  the  very  essence;  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity  was  embodied  in  this  order,  should  we  not 
anticipate  that  there  should  appear  in  their  num- 
erous allusions  to  the  Trinity  some  suggestion  of 
t  his  convict  ion? 

Such  facts  as  these  have  a  bearing  upon  the  tes- 
timony of  the  XT  to  the  interrelations  of  (he  Per- 
sons of  the  Trinity.  To  the  fact  of 
19.  Impli-  the  Trinity — to  the  fact,  that  is,  that 
cations  of  in  the  unity  of  the  tlodhead  there  siib- 
"Son"  and  sist  three;  Persons,  each  of  whom  has 
"Spirit"  his  particular  part  in  the  working  out 
o(  salvation — the  NT  testimony  is 
clear,  consistent,  pervasive  and  conclusive.  There 
is  included  in  this  testimony  constant  and  decisive 
\vitness  to  the  complete  and  undiminished  1  )eit  v 
of  each  of  these  Persons;  no  language1  is  too  exalted 
to  apply  to  each  of  them  in  turn  in  the  effort  to 
give  expression  to  the  writer's  sense  of  His  Deity: 
the  name  that  is  given  to  each  is  fully  understood 
to  be  "t  he  name  that  is  above;  every  name."  When 
\ve  attempt  to  press  the  inquiry  behind  the  broad 
fact,  however,  with  a  view  to  ascertaining  exact Iv 
how  the  NT  writers  conceive  the  three  Persons  to 
be  related,  the1  one  to  the  other,  we  meet  with  great 
difficulties.  Nothing  could  seem  more  natural,  for 
example,  than  to  assume  that,  the  mutual  relations 
of  the;  Persons  of  the;  Trinity  are  revealed  in  the 
designations,  "the  Father,  the  Se>n,  and  the  Holy 
Spirit,"  which  are;  given  them  by  Our  Lord  in  the 
solemn  formula  of  Alt  28  19.  Our  confidence  in 
this  assumption  is  somewhat  shaken,  however, 
when  we  observe',  as  we  have  just  observed,  that 
these  designations  are1  not  carefully  preserved  in 
their  allusions  to  the;  Trinity  by  the  writers  of  the 
NT  at  large',  but  are  e-liaracterist  ic  only  e>f  Our 
Lord's  allusions  anel  those1  of  John,  whose  modes  e>f 
speech  in  general  very  closely  resemble  those  of 
Our  Lonl.  Our  confidence  is  still  further  shaken 
when  we  observe  that  the  implications  with  respect 
to  the;  mutual  relations  of  the  Trinitarian  Porse>ns, 
which  are1  ordinarily  derived  fremi  those  desig- 
nations, elo  not  so  certainly  lie  in  them  as  is  com- 
monly supposed. 

It  may  be  very  natural  to  see  in  the;  designation 
"Son"  an  intimation  of  subordination  and  deriva- 
tion e>f  Being,  and  it  may  not  be  difficult  te>  ascribe 
a  similar  connotation  to  the  term  "Spirit."  But  it 
is  quite1  certain  that  this  was  not  the  denotation  e>f 
either  term  in  tin;  Som  consciousness,  which  under- 
lies the  phraseology  e>f  Scripture;  and  it  may  even 
be  thought  doubtful  whether  it  was  included  even 
in  their_  remoter  suggestions.  What  underlies  the 
conception  of  sonship  in  Scriptural  speech  is  just 
"likeness";  whatever  the  father  is  that  the  son  is 
also.  The  emphatic  application  of  the  term  "Son" 
to  one  of  the  Trinitarian  Persons,  accordingly, 


asserts  rather  His  equality  with  the  F:ithor  than 
His  subordination  to  t  he  Fa  I  her;  anel  if  t  here  is  any 
implication  of  dorivatiem  in  it,  it  would  appear  to 
be'  very  distant.  The  adjum-tion  eif  the  adjective 
"only  begotten"  (Jn  1  1-1;  3  Iti-lS;  1  Jn  4  9) 
need  add  only  the  idea  of  uniqueness,  not  of  deriva- 
tion (Rs  22  21;  25  l(i;  35  17;  Wisd  7  22m);  and 
even  such  a  phrase  as  "Cod  only  begotten"  (Jn  1 
IS  m)  may  contain  no  implication  of  derivation,  but 
only  eif  absolutely  unique  consubstantiality;  as 
also  such  a  phrase  as  'the  first -begot  ten  eif  all 
creation'  (Col  1  l.'ij  may  convey  no  intimation  eif 
coming  into  being,  but  merely  assort  priority  of 
existence.  In  like  manner,  the  elesignation  "Spirit 
of  Goel"  or  "Spirit  of  Joh,"  which  meets  us  fre- 
quently in  the:  ( )T,  certainly  eleie'S  not  convey  the' 
idea  there:  either  eif  dorivatiein  or  eif  subordination, 
but,  is  just  the:  executive  name  of  Ceid — the  desig- 
nat  ion  of  ( lod  from  the  point  of  view  of  His  activity 
— and  imports  accordingly  identity  with  God;  anil 
there  is  no  reason  to  suppose  that,  in  passing  from 
the  OT  to  (he  NT,  the  ((Tin  has  taken  on  an  essen- 
tially different  meaning.  It  happens,  oddly  enough, 
moreover,  that  we  have:  in  the  NT  itself  what 
amounts  almost  to  formal  definitions  of  the  two 
terms  _"Son"  and  "Spirit,"  and  in  both  cases  the 
stress  is  laid  on  the  tuition  of  equality  or  sameness. 
In  Jn  6  IS  we  road:  'On  this  account,  therefore, 
the:  Jews  sought  the  more  to  kill  him,  because,  not 
only  elid  he  break  the  Sabbath,  but  also  called  God 
his  own  Father,  making  himself  equal  to  God.' 
The:  point,  lie's,  of  course,  in  the  adj.  "own."  Jesus 
was,  rightly,  understood  to  call  God  "his  own 
Father,"  that  is,  to  use  the  feTins  "Father"  anel 
"Son"  not  in  a  merely  figurative  sense,  as  when  Israel 
was  called  ( leid'sson,  but  in  the  real  .sense.  And  this 
was  understood  te>  be  claiming  to  be  all  that  God  is. 
To  be:  the1  Sem  of  God  in  any  sense:  was  to  be  like 
God  in  that  se'nse';  to  be:  Ceid's  oirn  Sem  was  to  be 
exactly  like  Coel,  to  be  "equal  with  Coel."  Simi- 
larly, we  road  in  1  Ceir  2  10.11:  Tor  the  Spirit 
searcheth  all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  Cod. 
For  who  of  men  knowoth  the  things  of  a  man,  save 
the:  spirit  of  man  which  is  in  him?  Even  so  the 
things  of  God  nemo  knowoth,  save  the  Spirit  of 
Goel.'  He-re1  the1  Spirit  appears  as  the  substrate 
of  the  Divine  self-consciousness,  the  principle  of 
God's  knowledge  eif  Himself:  He  is,  in  a  worel,  just 
Coel  Himself  in  the  innermost  ossone-e  eif  His  Being. 
As  (he  spirit  of  man  is  the:  seat  of  human  life1,  the 
very  life  eif  man  itself,  so  the  Spirit  of  God  is  His 
very  life-element.  How  can  He:  be:  supposed,  then, 
to  be  subordinate  to  Goel,  or  to  derive  His  Being 
from  Ce>d?  If,  howoveT,  the:  subordination  of  the 
Sou  and  Spirit  to  t  he1  Fat  her  in  meides  eif  subsistence 
and  the'ir  derivatiem  from  the1  Father  are  not  impli- 
cate's of  their  designation  as  Sem  anel  Spirit,  it  will 
l)e  hard  tei  find  in  the  NT  compelling  evidence  of 
their  subordination  and  derivation. 

There  is,  of  course,  no  question   that    in  "moeles  of 
operation,"  as  it  is  technically  called — that  is  to  say,  in 
the  functions  ascribeel   te>  the  several  Per- 
20    Thf»  sons  eif  the1  Trinity  in  the1  redemptive  proc- 

ess,  anel,  more:  broadly,  in  the  entire  ele'al- 
OI  ing  e>f  (!od  with  thei  world — the  principle: 
of  subordination  is  clearly  expressed.  The 
Father  is  tirst,  the  Son  is  second,  and  the: 
Spirit  is  third,  in  the  operatiems  eif  Ceiel  as 
revealed  to  us  in  general,  anel  ve-ry  esp.  in 
those  operatiems  by  which  redemption  is  accomplished. 
Whatever  the  Father  does,  He  does  through  the  Sem  (Horn 
2  10;  3  22;  5  1.11.17.21;  Eph  1  5;  1  Thess  5  9;  Tit  3 
f>)  by  the  Spirit.  The  Son  is  sent  by  the:  Father  and  does 
His  Father's  will  (Jn  6  38);  the  Spirit  is  sent  by  the  Sem 
anel  de>cs  not  speak  from  Hirnse-lf ,  but  only  takes  eif  ( '  hrist  's 
and  shows  it  unto  His  people  (Jn  17  7  it);  anel  we:  have 
Our  Lord's  own  weird  for  it  that  'erne  that  is  sent  is  not 
greater  than  he  that  sent  him*  (Jn  13  16).  In  crisp 
decisiveness,  Our  Lord  oven  declares,  ineleed:  'My  Father 
is  greater  than  I '  (Jn  14  28) ;  and  Paul  tells  us  that  Christ 
is  (rod's,  even  as  we  are:  Christ's  (1  Cor  3  23),  and  that  as 
Christ  is  "the:  head  of  every  man,"  so  God  is  "the;  head 


Subordi- 
nation 


THK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trinity 


of  Christ"  (1  Cor  11  .'{).  But  it  is  not  so  clear  Unit  tlio 
principle  of  subordination  rules  also  in  "modes  of  sub- 
sistence," us  it,  is  technically  phrased;  that,  is  to  say, 
in  the  necessary  relation  of  I  hi1  Persons  of  t  lie  Trinity  to 
one  another.  Tin-  very  richness  and  variety  of  the 
expression  of  their  subordination,  the  one  to  the  other, 
in  modes  of  operation,  create  a  dilllculty  in  attaining 
certainty  whether  they  arc  represented  as  also  subordi- 
nate the  one  to  tho  other  in  modes  of  subsistence. 
Question  is  raised  in  each  case  of  apparent  intimation 
of  subordination  in  modes  of  subsistence,  whether  it  may 
not,  after  all,  be  explicable  as  only  another  expression  of 
subordination  in  modes  of  operation.  It  may  bo  natural 
to  assume  that  a  subordination  in  modes  of  operation 
rests  on  a  subordination  in  modes  of  subsistence;  that 
tho  reason  why  it  is  tho  Father  that  sends  the  Son  and 
tho  Son  that  sends  the  Spirit  is  that  tho  Son  is  subordi- 
nate to  tho  Father,  and  tho  Spirit  to  tho  Son.  But  wo 
are  bound  to  bear  in  mind  that  these  relations  of  sub- 
ordination in  modes  of  operation  may  just  as  well  be  due 
to  a  convention,  an  agreement,  between  tho  Persons  of 
tho  Trinity — a  "Covenant"  as  it  is  technically  called  — 
by  virtue  of  which  a  distinct  function  in  the  work  of 
redemption  is  voluntarily  assumed  by  each.  It  is 
eminently  desirable,  therefore,  at  the  least,  that  somo 
definite  evidence  of  subordination  in  modes  of  subsist- 
ence should  be  discoverable  before  it  is  assumed,  in 
tho  case  of  the  relation  of  the  Son  to  tho  Father,  there  is 
the  added  dilliculty  of  the  incarnation,  in  which  the  Son, 
by  the  assumption  of  a  creaturely  nature  into  union  with 
Himself,  enters  into  new  relations  with  the  Father  of  a 
definitely  subordinate  character.  Question  lias  even  been 
raised  whether  the  very  designations  of  Father  and  Son 
may  not  bo  expressive  of  these  new  relations,  and  there- 
fore without  significance  with  respect  to  the  eternal 
relations  of  the  Persons  so  designated.  This  question 
must  certainly  be  answered  in  the  negative.  Although, 
no  doubt,  in  many  of  the  instances  in  which  the  terms 
"Father"  and  "Son"  occur,  it  would  be  possible  to  take 
them  of  merely  economical  relations,  there  ever  remain 
somo  which  are  intractable  to  this  treatment,  and  we  may 
bo  sure  that  "Father"  and  "Son"  are  applied  to  their 
eternal  and  necessary  relations.  But  these  terms,  as 
wo  have  seen,  do  not  appear  to  imply  relations  of  first 
and  second,  superiority  and  subordination,  in  modes  of 
subsistence;  and  the  fact  of  the  humiliation  of  tho  Son 
of  God  for  His  earthly  work  does  introduce  a  factor  into 
the  interpretation  of  the  passages  which  import  His 
subordination  to  tho  Father,  which  throws  doubt  upon 
the  inference  from  them  of  an  eternal  relation  of  sub- 
ordination in  the  Trinity  itself.  It  must  at  least  be  said 
that  in  the  presence  of  the  great  NT  doctrines  of  the 
Covenant  of  Redemption  on  the  one  hand,  and  of  the 
Humiliation  of  the  Son  of  God  for  His  work's  sake  and 
of  the  Two  Natures  in  the  constitution  of  His  Person  as 
incarnated,  on  the  other,  the  dilliculty  of  interpreting 
subordinationist  passages  of  eternal  relations  between  tho 
Father  and  Son  becomes  extreme.  The  question  con- 
tinually obtrudes  itself,  whether  they  do  not  rather  find 
their  full  explanation  in  the  facts  embodied  in  the  doc- 
trines of  the  Covenant,  the  Humiliation  of  Christ,  and 
tho  Two  Natures  of  His  incarnated  Person.  Certainly 
in  such  circumstances  it  were  thoroughly  illegitimate  to 
press  such  passages  to  suggest  any  subordination  for  the 
Son  or  tho  Spirit  which  would  in  any  manner  impair  that 
complete  identity  with  the  Father  in  Being  and  that 
complete  equality  with  the  Father  in  powers  which  are 
constantly  presupposed,  and  frequently  emphatically, 
though  only  incidentally,  asserted  for  them  throughout 
the  whole  fabric  of  the  NT. 

The  Trinity  of  tho  Persons  of  tho  Godhead,  shown 
in  the  incarnation  and  the  redemptive  work  of  God 

the  Son,  and  the  descent  and  saving 
21.  Witness  work  of  God  the  Spirit,  is  thus  every- 
of  the  where  assumed  in  the  NT,  and  comes 

Christian  to  repeated  fragmentary  hut  none  the 
Conscious-  less  emphatic  and  illuminating  ex- 
ness  pression  in  its  pages.  As  the  roots  of 

its  revelation  are  set  in  the  threefold 
Divine  causality  of  the  saving  process,  it  naturally 
finda  an  echo  also  in  the  consciousness  of  everyone 
who  has  experienced  this  salvation.  Every  re- 
deemed soul,  knowing  himself  reconciled  with  God 
through  His  Son,  and  quickened  into  newness  of 
life  by  His  Spirit,  turns  alike  to  Father,  Son  and 
Spirit  with  the  exclamation  of  reverent  gratitude 
upon  his  lips,  "My  Lord  and  my  God!"  If  he  could 
not  construct  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  out  of  his 
consciousness  of  salvation,  yet  the  elements  of  his 
consciousness  of  salvation  are  interpreted  to  him 
and  reduced  to  order  only  by  the  doctrine  of  the 
Trinity  which  he  finds  underlying  and  giving  their 
significance  and  consistency  to  the  teaching  of  the 
Scriptures  as  to  the  processes  of  salvation.  By  means 


of  this  doctrine  he  is  able  to  think  clearly  and  con- 
sequently of  his  threefold  relation  to  the  saving 
God,  experienced  by  him  as  K;iihorly  love  sending  a 
Redeemer,  as  redeeming  love  executing  redemption, 
as  saving  love  applying  redemption:  all  manifes- 
tations in  distinct  methods  and  by  distinct  agencies 
of  the  one  seeking  and  saving  love  of  God.  Without 
the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  his  conscious  Christian 
life  would  be  thrown  into  confusion  and  left  in  dis- 
organization if  not ,  indeed,  given  an  air  of  unreality; 
with  the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity,  order,  significance 
and  reality  an;  brought  to  every  element  of  it. 
Accordingly,  tho  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  and  the 
doctrine  of  redemption,  historically,  stand  or  fall 
together.  A  Unitarian  theology  is  commonly 
associated  with  a  Pelagian  anthropology  and  a 
Soeinian  sotoriology.  It,  is  a  striking  testimony 
which  is  borne  bv  E.  Koenig  (Offenburung&begriff 
das  AT,  1882,  I,  125):  "I  have  learned  that  many 
cast  off  the  whole  history  of  redempt  ion  for  no  other 
reason  than  because  they  have  not  attained  to  a 
conception  of  the  Triune  God."  It  is  in  this  inti- 
macy of  relation  between  the  doctrines  of  the 
Trinity  and  redemption  that  the  ultimate  reason 
lies  why  the  Christian  church  could  not  rest  until 
it  had  attained  a  definite  and  well-compacted  doc- 
trine of  the  Trinity.  Nothing  else  could  be  ac- 
cepted as  an  adequate  foundation  for  the  experience 
of  the  Christian  salvation.  Neither  the  Sabellian 
nor  the  Arian  construction  could  meet  and  satisfy 
the  data  of  the  consciousness  of  salvat  ion,  any  more 
than  either  could  meet  and  satisfy  the  data  of  the 
Scriptural  revelation.  The  data  of  the  Scriptural 
revelation  might,  to  be  sure,  have  been  left  unsat- 
isfied: men  might  have  found  a  modus  viwndi  with 
neglected,  or  even  with  perverted  Scriptural  teach- 
ing. But  perverted  or  neglected  elements  of  Chris- 
tian experience  are  more  clamant  in  their  demands 
for  attention  and  correction.  The  dissatisfied  Chris- 
tian consciousness  necessarily  searched  the  Scrip- 
tures, on  the  emergence  of  every  new  attempt  to 
state  the  doctrine  of  the  nature  and  relations  of  God, 
to  see  whether  these  things  were  true,  and  never 
reached  contentment  until  the  Scriptural  data  were 
given  their  consistent  formulation  in  a  valid  doc- 
trine of  the  Trinity.  Here  too  the  heart  of  man 
was  restless  until  it  found  its  rest  in  the  Triune 
God,  the  author,  procurer  and  applier  of  salvation. 
The  determining  impulse  to  the  formulation  of 
the  doctrine  of  the  Trinity  in  the  church  was  the 

church's  profound  conviction  of  the 
22.  Formu-  absolute  Deity  of  Christ,  on  which 
lation  of  the  as  on  a  pivot  the  whole  Christian  con- 
Doctrine  eeption  of  God  from  the  first  origins 

of  Christianity  turned.  The  guiding 
principle  in  the  formulation  of  the  doctrine  was 
supplied  by  the  Baptismal  Formula  announced  by 
Jesus  (Mt  28  19),  from  which  was  derived  the 
ground-plan  of  the  baptismal  confessions  and  "rules 
of  faith"  which  very  soon  began  to  be  framed  all 
over  the  church.  It  was  by  those  two  fundamental 
principia — the  true  Deity  of  Christ  and  the  Baptis- 
mal Formula — that  all  attempts  to  formulate  the 
Christian  doctrine  of  God  were  tested,  and  by  their 
molding  power  that  the  church  at  length  found  itself 
in  possession  of  a  form  of  statement  which  did  full 
justice  to  the  data  of  the  redemptive  revelation  as 
reflected  in  the  NT  and  the  demands  of  the  Chris- 
tian heart  under  the  experience  of  salvation. 

In  the  nature  of  the  case  the  formulated  doctrine  was 
of  slow  attainment.  The  influence  of  inherited  con- 
ceptions and  of  current  philosophies  inevitably  showed 
itself  in  the  efforts  to  construe  to  the  intellect  the  imma- 
nent faith  of  Christians.  In  the  2d  cent,  the  dominant 
neo-Stoic  and  neo-Platonic  ideas  deflected  Christian 
thought  into  subordinationist  channels,  and  produced 
what  is  known  as  the  Logos-Christology,  which  looks 
upon  tho  Son  as  a  prolation  of  Deity  reduced  to  such 
dimensions  as  comported  with  relations  with  a  world  of 


Trinity 
Trophimm 


Till-]  IXTKRXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3022 


time  and  space;    meanwhile,  to  a  great  extent,  tho  Spirit 

.1  iioloaetica/h/  Considered,   London  and  New  York,   1907; 

was   neglected  altogether.      A   reaction   which,   under  t  he 

A.    F.    W.    Ingram,    The-    Lone,   of  the    Trinity,    Now   York, 

name  of  Moiiarchiaiiism,  identified  the  Father,  Son.  and 

190S. 

Spirit  so  completely  that  they  were  thought  of  only  as 

[XoTi-:.  —  In  this  art.   the  author  has   usually  given  his 

dilfereiit  aspects  or  ditEoront  moments  in  the  life  of  the  one 

own   renderings   of    original    passages,    and   not   those   of 

Divine  Person,  calh-d  now  Father,  now  Son,  now  Spirit, 

any  particular  VS.  —  EDITORS.] 

as    His   several   activities  came  successively  into    \te\s, 
almost  succeeded  in  establishing  itself  in  the  :M  cent,  as 
the  doctrine  of  tho  church  at  large.     In  the  conflict  be- 

BKX.IAMI.V 15.  WARFIELD 

TRIPOLIS,  trip'o-lis  (TpiiroXis,   Tripoli*,  _  "triple 

tween    these  two  opposite  tendencies   the  church   grad- 

city";:   Demetrius  the  son  of  Seloueus,  having  fled 

ually  found  its  wav,  under  the  guidance  of  the  Baptismal 

from    Rome,  collected    "a   mighty  host   and  fleet," 

Formula  elaborated  into  a  "  Rule,  of  Faith,"  to  a  better 
and  more  well-balanced  conception,  until  a  real  doctrine 
of  the  Trinitv  at  length  came  to  expression,  particularly 

sailed  into  tho  haven  of  Tripolis,  took  tho  city,  ob- 
tained possession  of  the  country,  and  put  to  death 

in  the  AVest,  through  the  brilliant  dialectic  of  Tertullian. 

Ids  cousin,   Antiochus   V,   along  with  his  guardian 

It  was  thus  ready  at  hand,  when,  in  the  early  years  of 
tho  4th  cent.,  the  Logos-Christology,   in  opposition   to 
dominant    Sabellian   tendencies,   ran  to  seed   in   what    is 

Lysias    (2  Mace  14   1  IT;     Jos,     An/,    XII,    x,    J). 
After    a    period    of    unsuccessful    guerrilla    warfare 

known   as  Arianism,   to  which   the   Son  was  a  creature, 

against    llyrcanus    in    Samaria,     Antiochus    Cy/,i- 

though  exalted  above  all  other  creatures  as  their  Creator 
and  Lord;  and  the  church  was  thus  prepared  to  assert 

cenus   retired    to    Tripolis    (Ant,   XII,   x,   2).     The 

its    settled   faith   in    a    Triune    dod.    one    in    being,    but 

city  was  founded   by  tho   Phoenicians  and  was  a 

in    whoso    unity    there    subsisted    three    consubstantial 

member  of  the  Phoeu  league.     It  was  divided  into 

Persons.      Under  the  leadership  of  Athanasius  this  doc- 
trine was  proclaimed  as  tho  faith  of  the  church  at  the 

3  quarters  by  walls  —  hence  the  name  "triple  ^eity" 

Council  of  Xieo  in  :iii~>  AD,  and  by  his  strenuous  labors 

—  and   these  were  occupied  by  settlers  from  Tyre, 

and  those  of  "the  three  great  Cappadocians,"   the  two 

Sidon,     and     Aradus,     respectively.     The     federal 

(iregories  and    Basil,   it  gradually   won  its   way  to  the 
actual  acceptance!  of  the  entire  church.     It  was  at  tho 

council  of  these  states  sat  here.     Its  position  on  the 

hands  of  Augustine,   however,  a  century  later,   that  tho 

I'hoen  seacoast  ,  with  easy  access  to  the  interior,  gave 

doctrine!   thus   become    the   church   doctrine   in   fact   as 
well  as  in  theorv,  received  its  most  complete  elaboration 
and   most  carefully   grounded   statement.      In   the   form 
which  he.  gave  it,  and  which  is  embodied  in  that  "battle- 

it    inanv  advantages  from  tho  commercial  point  of 
view.    'The   Solenoid   inonarchs,   tho   Romans,   and 
Herod  tho  (Ireat  did  much  to  beautify  the  city;  the 

hymn   of    the   early    church,"    the,  so-called   Athanasian 

last-named  building  a  gymnasium  (Jos,  />'./  ',  I,  xxi, 

Creed,  it  has  retained  its  place  as  the  fit  expression  of  the 
faith  of   the  church   as   to   the   nature  of   its   God    until 

11).      When  attacked  by  the  Arabs  the  inhabitants 

today       The   language   in   which   it  is   couched,   even   in 

took   ship   and   escaped.      Later   their   places   were 

this  'final    declaration,    still    retains    elements    of   speech 

taken    bv    Jews    and    Persians.     Ca.pt  tired    by    the 

which  owe  their  origin  to  the  modes  of  thought  charac- 
t  'fistic  of  tin!   Logos-Christology  of  tho  iM  cent.,  fixed 

Crusaders  in   1109,  it  was  taken  by  the  Egyptians 

in  tho  nomenclature  of  the  church  by  the  Nicene  Creed  of 

in  12X9.     The  ancient,  city  was  surrounded  on  three 

325  \I>    though  carefully  guarded  then!  against  the  snb- 

sides  by  tho  sea.     Tho  site  is  now  occupied  by  d- 

ordinationism    inherent    in    the    Logos-Christology,    and 
made  the  vehicle  rather  of  the   Nieeiio  doctrines  of  the 
eternal  generation  of  the  Son  and  procession  of  the  Spirit, 

Mln/i,  'the  harbor   of   the   modern   city,    Tarabulus, 
which  stands  on  the  bank  of  \<i/tr  Kaillx/m,  about  2 

with  the  consequent  subordination  of  tho  Son  and  Spirit 

miles  awav.     The  inhabitants  number  about  23,000. 

to  the  Father  in  modes  of  subsistence  as  well  as  of  oper- 
ation.     In  the  Athanasian  Cieed.  however,  the  principle 

The;  town'gives  its  name  to  a  district  under  the  rilu- 
ijct  of  Beirut,  which  has  always  been  famous  for  its 

of   the    equalization    of    tin;    three    Persons,    which    was 

already  the  dominant  motive  of  tho  Xieene  Creed  —  the 

fruit  fulness.                                                  W.  EWI.M; 

homooTisia     is  so  strongly  emphasized  as  practically  to 

push    out  of  sight,   if   not  quite  out  of  existence,    these 

remanent  suggestions  of  derivation   and   subordination. 

TRIUMPH,   trl'umf    (9pia(if3£tia),    thruDnlieuo,   "to 

It  has  been  found  necessary,  nevertheless,  from  time  to 
time,   vigorously  to  reassert  the  principle  of  equaliza- 
tion, over  against  a  tendency   unduly  to  emphasize  the 

lead   in   triumph"):    The  word  is  used  by  Paul  to 
express    an    idea    very    familiar    to    antiquity,    and 

elements  of  subordinationism   which  still   hold  a  place 

to   tho   churches   at   Corinth   and    Colossac:    "But 

thus   in    the   traditional    language   in   which   the  church 

thanks   be   unto   Clod,    who   always   loadoth   us    in 

states  its  doctrine  of  the  Trinity.      In  particular,  it  fell 
to  Calvin,  in  the  interests  of  the  true  Deity  of  Christ—  the 

triumph    in    Christ"    (2  Cor  2   It);     "Having    de- 

constant motive  of  the  whole;  body  of  Trinitarian  thought 

spoiled  the  principalities  and  the  powers,  he  made  a 

—  to  reassert  and  make  good  the  attribute  of  self-exist- 

show of  them  openly,  triumphing  over  them  in  it" 

ence   (antotheotiis)   for  the  Son.     Thus  Calvin  takes  his 

1  (  1  ,  1    O     \  ~\\ 

place,  alongside  of  Tertullian,  Athanasius  and  Augustine, 

(^ot  ft   io}. 

as  one  of  the  chief  contributors  to  the  exact  and  vital 

A  triumph  in  Rome  was  a  magnificent  procession 

statement  of  the  Christian  doctrine  of  the  Triune  God. 

in   honor  of   a  victorious  general,  and    the  highest 

LiTKRvrriu:.  —  !•'.  C.  Baur,  Din  christliehe  Lclirc  von  der 
Dreiein'uikt-it  Gottrx,  :j  vols,  Tubingen,  1S4  1—1:5;  Dionysius 
Pet  a  vi  us   l)c  Trinitate.  (vol  II,  of  De  Theoloi/icis  Dogmaticix, 

military  distinction  which  IK;  could  obtain.     It  was 
granted  bv  the  senate  only  to  one  who  had  held  the 

Paris    1(147);  (f.  Hull,  A  Defence  of  the  Nicene  Creed  (1685\, 

ofliee  of  dictator,   consul,   or  praetor,  and  after  a 

2  vols,  Oxford,  1S51  ;  Cr.  S.  Faber,  The.  .t  postolicity  of  Trini- 
tiirinnism,  2   vols,    1SIV2;    Augustine,    On  the  Holy   Trinity 
(vol  HI  of  Nicene  and  I'ont-Nicene  Fathers  of  the  Christian 

decisive  victory  in  tho  complete  subjugation  of  a 
province.      In  a  Rom  triumph  the  victorious  general 

Church,  1-2'JS),  N'ew  York,  1SS7{  Calvin,  Institutes  of  the 

entered  the  city  in  a  chariot  drawn  by  four  horses. 

Christ/an  Relii/ion,  I.chxiii;  C.  Hodge.,  Si/ntemntic  Theoloi/i/ 
and   Index,    I,    New   York,    1S73,   442-S2;    H.    Bavinck, 

C.erefor  inen-ile,    Dui/matick-,    11,     Kampen,    190X,   2t>()   :!17 

lie  was  crowned  with  laurel,  having  a  scepter  in 
one  hand  and  a  branch  of  laurel  in  the  other.     He 

(gives    excellent    references    to    literature);     S.    Harris, 

was  preceded  by  the  senate;  and  magistrates,  musi- 

God    Creator,    and    Lord    of    All,    New    York,    1S9G;     R. 
Hocholl,    Der    christliehe    Gottesbegriff,   Gottingen,    1900; 
\V.    F.  Adeney,    The  Christian  Conception  of  Cod,  London, 

cians,  the  spoils  of  his  victory,  and  the  captives  in 
fetters;   and  followed  by  his  army  on  foot,  in  march- 

l')0<>    215—46;    J.    Lebreton,    Lm    oriuincs    dn    dni/me   de 

ing   order.     The    procession    thus   advanced   along 

la   Trinite,  Paris,  1910;    J.  C.  K.  Hofmann,   Der  Sehrift- 
beweix\    NOrdlingen,   lS57-(it),    1,   85-111;    J.   L.  S.   LuU, 
liililixche    Dmiinatik,    Pforzheim,    1S17,    319—94;     U.    W. 

the  Via  Sacra  to  the  Capitol,  where  a  bull  was  sac- 
rificed to  Jupiter,  and  the  laurel  wreath  deposited 

Latldis,    A    J'lea  for  the.    Catholic.   Doctrine   of  the    Trinity, 

in  the  lap  of  the  god.     During  the  triumphal  entry 

Philadelphia,  1S:V2;  E.  TI.  Bickerstoth,  The  Hock  of  Ar/c*, 
etc,    London,    ixiil),    New    York,    18(11;    K.    Kiggenbach, 
••Der  trinitarische  Taufbefehl,  Mt  28  10"   (in  Schlatter 

the  priests  burned  incense,  and  hence  the  reference 
of  the  apostle:    "For  we  are  a  sweet  savor  of  Christ 

and   Cremer,    Hcitriii/e    znr    FOrderung    christlicher    Theo- 

unto  God,  in  them  that  are  saved,  and  in  them  that 

lo./ic,  1903,  VII;    also  190(1,  X);    F.  J.  Hall,  The  Trinity, 
London  and  New  York,  1910.  100-141;    J.  Pearson,   An 
Exposition  of  the  Creed,  ed  Chevallier  and  Sinker,  Cam- 
bridge, 1S99;  J.  Howe,  "Calm  Discourse  on  the  Trinity," 

perish  ;  to  the  one  a  savor  from  deat  h  unto  deat  h  ;  to 
theother  a  savor  from  life  unto  life"  (2  Cor  2  LUG). 
The  incense  that  was  to  the  victor  the  "savor"  of  his 

in  Works,  ed  Hint,  London,  1810-22;  J.  Owen,  "Vindi- 
cation of  the  Doet  rine  of  the  Holy  Trinity."  and  "Saint's 
Fellowship  with  tho  Trinity,"  in  Works,  Gould's  cd,  Lon- 
don,   1850-55;     J.    Edwards,    Observations   concerning   the 

triumph  would  be  to  the  wretched   captives  the 
"savor,"  or  intimation,  of  a  rapidly  approaching 
death  in  the  Rom  arena  or  in  the  damp  vaults  of 

Scripture   Economy  of  the   Trinity,  etc,  Now  York,   1880, 
also     \.n    Unpublished   Essay   on   the    Trinity,   New  York, 
1903;     J.    H.    Illingworth,    The    Doctrine    of  the    Trinity 

the  Tullianum.     Thus  the  "incense,"  or  influence, 
of  the  apostolic  gospel  would  be  to  the  believer  the 

3023 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trinity 
Trophimus 


assurance  of  redemption  through  Christ,  and  to  the 
unbeliever  the  assurance  of  spiritual  death. 

After  the  suicide  of  Antony  in  Alexandria  CiO  BO 
Augustus  Caesar  succeeded  in  getting  Cleopatra  into 
his  power.  She  had  hoped  to  subdue  him  by  her  charms, 
but  without  avail.  Aware  that  she  was  doomed,  si  i. 
revolted  against  tho  thought  of  being  led  in  triumph  t  > 
Koine,  and,  as  tradition  states,  took  her  own  life  1)  • 
allowing  an  asp  to  bite  her,  saying,  "I  will  nut  be  led 
in  triumph";  see  Shakespeare's  Antony  and  (,'li'upatrt  , 
V,  ii: 

"He'll  lead  me,  then,  in  triumph  ?  .... 

Thou,  an  Kgyptian  puppet,  shall  be  shown 
In   Koine  as  well  as   1:    mechanic  slaves, 
With  greasy  aprons,  rules,  and  hammers  shall 
I'plift   us   to   the    view " 

AIITIU'II  WALWYN  EVANS 

TROAS,  tiT/as  (Tpoxxs,  Trod 8):  Tho  chief  city 
in  tho  N.W.  of  Asia  Minor,  on  the  coast  of  Mysia 
in  tho  Rom  province  of  Asia.  From  here,  accord- 
ing to  Acts  16  S,  Paul  sailed.  Here,  also,  accord- 
ing to  Acts  20  5-12,  Paul  raised  Eutychus  from  the 
dead.  The  name  Troas  was  not  confined  to  the 
town  itself,  but  it  was  also  applied  to  the  surround- 
ing district,  or  to  that  part  of  the  coast  which  is 
now  generally  known  as  the  Troad.  In  its  early 
history  it  bore  the  name  of  Antigona  Troas,  which 
was  given  it  by  its  founder  Antigonus,  but  after 
300  BC  it  was  generally  known  to  the  classical 
writers  as  Alexander  Troas,  a  name  given  to  it  by 
Lysimachus.  For  a  time  the  Seleucid  kings  made, 
their  homes  at  Troas.  Later,  when  the  city  became 
free,  it  struck  its  own  coins,  of  which  vast  numbers 
are  found;  a  common  type  is  one  upon  which  is 
stamped  a  grazing  horse.  In  133  BC  Troas  came 
into  the  possession  of  the  Romans,  and  later,  during 
the  reign  of  Augustus,  it  was  made  a  Rom  colonia, 
independent  of  the  Rom  governor  of  the  province 
of  Asia.  Its  citizens  wore  then  exempt  from  poll 
and  land  tax.  During  Byzantine  times  Troas  was 
the  seat  of  a  bishopric. 

The  ruins  of  Troas,  now  bearing  the  name  of 
Exki  titdinbid,  are  extensive,  giving  evidence  of  the 
great  size  and  importance  of  the  ancient  city. 
They  have,  however,  long  been  used  as  a  (marry, 
and  the  columns  of  the  public  buildings  were  taken 
to  Constantinople  for  use  in  tho  construction  of  the 
mosque  known  as  the  Ycni  Vulidch  Janii.  The  site 
is  now  mostly  overgrown  with  oaks,  but  from  tho 
higher  portions  of  (he  ruins  there  is  an  extensive 
view  over  the  sea  and  the  neighboring  islands.  It 
is  only  with  difficulty  that  one  may  now  trace  the 
city  walls  and  locate  the  square  towers  which  flanked 
them  at  intervals.  Within  t  he  walls  are  the  remains 
of  the  theater,  the  temple  and  the  gymnasium,  which 
was  provided  with  baths.  The  port  from  which 
Paul  sailed  was  constructed  by  means  of  a  mole, 
with  an  outer  and  an  inner  basin.  The  most  impos- 
ing of  tho  ruins,  however,  is  a  large  aqueduct  which 
was  built  in  the  time  of  Trajan.  E.  J.  BANKS 

TROGYLLIUM,  tro-jil'i-urn,  trO-gil'i-urn  (Tpw- 
•yvXXiov,  Trogtillion):  According  to  Acts  20  15  AV, 
ARYrn,  the  ship  in  which  Paul  sailed  to  Caesa- 
rea  on  his  return  from  his  3d  missionary  journey 
tarried  at  Trogyllium.  Several  of  the  early  MSS 
omit  the  words,  "tarried  at  Trogyllium"  (W1I 
omits  as  "Western"  interpolation);  yet,  whether 
the  words  belonged  to  the  text  or  not,  Paul  evi- 
dently passed  the  promontory,  and  probably  stopped 
there.  From  the  coast  near  Miletus  the  promon- 
tory projects  into  the  sea  toward  the  island  of 
Samos;  the  strait  separating  tho  mainland  from  the 
island  is  scarcely  a  mile  wide.  It  was  in  this  strait 
which  is  now  called  Kutcltuk  Boghaz  by  the  Turks 
that  the  battle  of  Mycale  was  fought  in  479  BC. 
The  promontory  now  bears  the  name  of  Santa  Maria, 
and  the  place  of  anchorage  is  called  Saint  Paul's 
port.  E.  J.  BANKS 


TROOP,  troop. 


See 


TROPHIMUS,  Irof'i-mus  (Tpo^ipios,  Tn>i>liiinnx, 
lit.  "a  foster  child"  [Acts  20  4;  21  2'.  I;  2  Tim 
4  20|j:  An  Asiatic  Christian,  a  friend  and  com- 
panion-in-t  ravel  of  the  apostle  Paul. 

In  the  first  of  the  three  passages  in  which  Trophi- 
mus is  mentioned,  he  and  Tychicus  are  called 
A.siuH(/i,  that  is,  natives  of  1  he  Rom 

1.  An  province  of  Asia;    and  making  it  still 
Ephesian        more    definite,    in    Acts  21  2(.t,    he    is 

termed  an  ''Ephosinn."  T.  was  one  of 
eight  friends,  who  accompanied  Paul  at  the  close  of 
his  3d  missionary  journey,  and  traveled  with  him 
from  dreeee  through  Macedonia  into  Asia,  and 
onward  by  sea  until  Jorus  was  reached  (see  TYCIII- 
ci's).  T.  went  with  Paul  all  the  way,  for,  in  the 
.second  of  the  passages  referred  to,  he  is  mentioned 
as  being  with  Paul  in  Jorus  immediately  on  the  close 
of  this  journey. 

He  was  the  innocent  cause  of  Paid  being  assaulted 
in  the  courts  of  (he  temple  by  (he  Jewish  mob,  and 

then    of    his    being    arrested    and    im- 

2.  Cause  of  prisoned  by  the  Romans.     The  occa- 
Paul's  sion  of  this  outrage  was  that  tin;  Jews 
Arrest  supposed     that    Paul     had     ''brought 

Creeks  also  into  the  temple,  and  .... 
defiled  this  holy  place"  (Acts  21  2S).  'The  modi- 
cum of  fact  lying  a!  (he  root  of  this  false  accusation 
was  that  they  had  seen  Paul  and  T.  in  each  other's 
company  in  the  city.  On  this  slender  basis  ''(hey 
supposed"  that  Paul  had  brought  T.  past  the  barrier 
or  middle  wall  of  partition  (Eph  2  14;  .see  PARTI- 
TION), beyond  which  no  Centile  was  allowed  to 
penetrate  on  pain  of  death.  They  .supposed  that 
T.,  who  was  neither  a  Jew  nor  a  proselyte,  but  a 
gentile  Christian,  had  been  introduced  in(o  tho 
temple  itself  by  Paul — which  would  have  boon 
profanation.  Hence  their  fury  against  tho  apostle. 

I  low  strongly  they  insisted  on  the  crime  which 
Trophimus  was  falsely  alleged  to  have  committed 
on  that  occasion,  is  seen  again  in  (he  way  in  which 
(he  orator  Tertullus  repeated  the  charge  against 
Paul  before  the  Rom  governor  Felix,  ''who  more- 
over assayed  i<>  profane  the  temple"  (Acts  24  6). 

The   third   reference   to   T.  is   in    2    Tim    4    20, 

"Trophimus    I   left   at   Miletus   sick."      This  final 

notice  shows  1  hat  he  was  again — several 

3.  At  years  after  (he  date  indicated   in  the 
Miletus  previous  passages — traveling  with  Paul 

on  one  of  the  missionary  journeys 
which  the  apostle  undertook  after  being  liberated 
from  his  lirst  imprisonment  in  Rome.  It  is  exceed- 
ingly difficult,  perhaps  impossible,  to  trace  the 
course  of  the  different  journeys  which  Paul  now 
made,  as  then;  is  no  such  narrative  as  is  given  in 
Acts  for  the  former  journeys,  but  merely  incidental 
notices  of  his  later  travels,  in  the  Pastoral  Epp.  In 
this,  the  last  of  all  his  letters — 2  Tim — Paul  indicates 
various  places  which  he  had  visited,  and  also  the 
names  of  friends  who  traveled  with  him  on  this  the 
last  of  his  apostolic  journeys. 

Among  other  places,  he  had  visited  Miletus,  a  city  on 
the  coast  of  the  province  of  Asia;  and  then;  his  old  friend 
T.  had  been  laid  down  with  illness,  so  severe  that  he 
could  travel  no  farther,  but  Paul  left  him  "at  Miletus 
sick."  It  is  to  be  noted  that  Miletus  was  not  far  from 
Kphosus,  which  was  T.'s  native  city.  Then;  would  be 
much  intercourse  between  the  two  cities  (set;  Acts  20 
17,  where  Paul  sends  for  the  elders  of  the  church  at 
Kphesus  to  come  to  him  at  Miletus,  which  they  did). 
T.,  therefore,  in  his  sickness,  could  easily  reach  Kphesus, 
or  his  friends  from  that  city  could  <|iiickly  come  to  him 
at  Miletus,  and  give  him  whatever  attention  and  nursing 
ho  might  require. 

It  has  been  conjectured  that  T.  is  to  be  identified 
with  the  person  mentioned  in  2  Cor  8  10-24. 
Paul  there  speaks  in  the  highest  terms  of  one  of  his 
companions — but  without  giving  his  name — whom 


TI1K   IXTKKXATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trough 
Truth 

h<-  sent   with  Titus.      Titus  and  this  disciple  were 
evidently   those   to  whose  care  Paul  intrusted  the 
carrying    of    the    Second    Lp.    to    the 
4    The  Cor    to    its   destination.     The    apostle 

Description  says  of  this  unnamed  brother,  not  only 
of  2  Cor  t  hat  his  praise  is  in  1  he  gospel  through- 
8-18  out  all  the  churches,  but  also  that  he 

was  chosen  by  the  churches  to  travel 
with  him,  i.e.  with  Paul,  with  this  grace,  i.e.  with  the 
contribution  of  money  collected  in  the  gentile 
churches  for  the  poor  saints  in  Jems. 

Now  it  is  certain  that  at  the  close  of  his  3d  missionary 
Journey    Paul  carried  these  m  ts  to  ..lerus   <,       ™    '  ! 
brinx  alms  to  iiiv  nation,  and  offerings, 
and  some  of  the  eight  fri(>nds  who  accompanied  him  on 
the  iouracy  (20    I  )  were  those  who  had  been  intrusted  by 

heSx'hes  with  the  safe  conveyance  of  the  mon^ 
Sne'ikin"  of  these  co  lections,  Paul  writes  (I  C  oi  Ib 
S'\r!  Whomsoever  ye  shall  approve  them  w.ll  1  send 
with  letters  to  carry  your  bounty  unto  Jerus:  and  if  it 
be  meet  for  me  to  KO  also,  they  shall  K<>  with  me."  These 
oorSftions^re  fulfilled,  when  Paul  und  his  eiKht  friends 

•  veled  from  Greece  to  Jerus,  carrying  the  money  with 
them.  There  is  therefore  certainty  that  one  of  the  eight 
is  the  brother  referred  to  in  2  Cor  8  IS,  whose  praise  in 
theTosp™  was  in  all  the  churches  and  whom  the  churches 

vi,l  •)  minted  to  travel  with  Paul  for  the  purpose  of 
carrying  the  money  contribution,  -and  whom,  Paul  had 


3024 


''" 


~»lliililv   lliat  111,-    miiiini,-<l 


were  with  him  on  his  arrival  in  .Jerus   (A   ts  41    l    .-.n. 
Therefore  the  brother   whose  P^ise  in  the  gospel  was 

MM    thi>    ehurclies   may    very    well    ha\e    been     l..    l 
not  T     then  possibly  Luke  or  Aristarchus.     (Jams  and 
Aristarchus  are  termed  ;•  Paul's  companion*  in  t  rave 
riots    19    29V     and    Aristarchus    was    afterward     witn 
Paul  in   Pai!  and  sailed  with  him  to   Rome.      It  is  qurU- 

'  -* 


A<'^  Ji?.-  conditions  do  not  seem  to  be  satisflod  in  Sopatpr 
Secundus  or  Timothy,  tho  brother  so  highlj  com 
nlendell  must  have  been  either  Luke  or  (.ams  or  Aris- 
tarchus or  Tychicus  c  <r°PUm^HN  RTTTOTRFURD 

TROUGH,  trof.     See  5m-:Ki>  TENDING;   BKKAD. 

TROW  tro:  An  obsolete  vb.  meaning  "to  be- 
lieve": cf  "trust"  and  the  (Jer.  trauen.  It  occurs 
only  in  Lk  17  9,  AV  "Doth  IK,  thank  that  serv- 
,ult  .  .  ?  1  trow  not,"  as  :i  tr  ot  ov  3o*w,  on 
\loko\  "I  believe  not  ."  The  words  on  dokd,  however, 
are  not  part  of  the  original  text  but  are  : 
gloss  to  supply  mi  answer  lo  the  question,  and 
hence  "I  trow  not"  is  omit  ted  by  It\  . 

TRUCEBREAKER,  tro7»s'brak-er:  The  AV  ren- 
dering  in  2  Tun  3  3  of  &ff*ov8os,  dspondos,  lit. 
"without  a  libation."  As  a  libation  always  accom- 
panied the  making  of  a  treaty  in  («r  lands,  the  lack 
implied  that  no  treaty  had  been  made  or,  by  a 
natural  extension  of  meaning,  could  be  made. 
Hence  the  word  came  to  mean  "implacable 

TRUMP,  trump,  TRUMPET,  trum'pet,  irum'- 
pit.  See  Music. 

TRUMPETS,  FEAST  OF:  In  Lev  23  23-25  the 
first  day  (new  moon)  of  the  seventh  month  is  set 

apart  as  a  solemn  rest,  "a  memorial  ot 
1  De-  blowing  of  trumpets"  (the  Heb  leaves 
scription  "of  trumpets"  to  be  understood),  sig- 

nalized further  by  "a  holy  convocation, 
abstinence  from  work,  and  the  presentation  of  "an 
offering  made  by  fire."     In  Nu  29  1-6  these  direc- 
tions are  repeated,  with  a  detailed  specification  ol 


the  nature  of  the  offering.  In  addition  to  the  usual 
daily  burnt  sacrifices  and  the  special  offerings  for 
new  moons,  there  are  to  be  offered  one  bullock,  one 
ram,  and  seven  he-lambs,  with  proper  meal  offerings, 
together  with  a  he-goat  for  a  sin  offering. 

The  significance  of  the  feast  lay  in  the  fact  that  it 
marked  the  beginning  of  the  new  year  according 
to  the  older  calendar.     Originally  the 
2    Signifi-       ••revolution"  of  the  year  was  reckoned 
cance  in  theJWJ  (Kx  23  10;  34  22),  and  t  lie 

change  to  the  spring  never  thoroughly 
displaced  the  older  system.  In  fact  the  spring  New 
Year  never  succeeded  in  becoming  a  specially  recog- 
nized feast,  and  to  Jewish  ears  "New  Year's  Day" 
(nilSn  TZJSH  ,  ro'.s/t  ha-shanah)  invariably  signifies  an 
aut'umnal  festival.  So  the  Mish  (Rush  hu-shauah, 
i.l):  "Then;  are  four  periods  of  commencement  ol 
years:  On  the  1st  of  Nisan  is  a  new  year  for  kings 
and  for  festivals;  the  1st  of  Klul  is  n  new  year  for 

the  tithe  of  cattle The  1st  of  Tishn  is  new 

year's  (day]  for  the  ordinary  or  civil  year,  tor  the 
computation  of  7th  years,  and  ot  the  jubilees;  also 
for  the  planting  of  trees,  and  for  herbs.     On  the  1 
of  Shebat  is  the  new  year  for  trees." 

The  ritual  for  the  day  consequently  needs  little 
explanation.  All  new  moons  were  heralded  by 
trumpeting  (.Xu  10  10),  and  so  the 
3.  Ritual  custom  was  of  course  observed  on  this 
feast  also.  There  is  nothing  in  the 
language  of  either  Lev  23  or  Nu  29  to  require  a 
prolongation  of  the  music  on  this  special  new  moon 
but  its  speci.il  distinction  was  no  doubt  marked 
by  special  trumpeting  at  all  times,  and  at  a  later 
period  (see  below)  elaborate  rules  were  laid  down 
for  this  feature.  The  additional  sacrifices  simply 
involved  an  increase  of  those  prescribed  for  new 
moons  (Nu  28  11-15),  without  changing  their 
type.  Perhaps  Ps  81  was  esp.  written  tor  this  feast 
(cfverS).  , 

Mentions  of  a  special  observance  of  the  1st  ol 
Tishri  are  found  also  in  K/.k  45  20  (reading,  as 
is  necessary,  "first  day  of  seventh 
4  Origin  month"  here  for  "seventh  day")  and 
Neh  8  1-12.  In  the  former  passage, 
the  day  is  kept  by  offering  a  bullock  as  a  sin  offering 
and  sprinkling  its  blood  in  a  way  that  recalls  the 
ritual  of  the  Day  of  Atonement.  In  Neh  an  assem- 
bly of  the  people  was  held  to  hear  K/ra  read  the 
Law.  The  day  was  kept  as  a,  festival  on  which 
mourning  was  forbidden  (ver  9).  Apart  from  these 
references  there  is  no  mention  of  the  feast  elsewhere 
in  the  OT,  and,  indeed,  there  is  some  reason  to 
think  that  at  one  time  the  10th,  and  not  the  1st, 
of  Tishri  was  regarded  as  the  beginning  of  the  year. 
For  K/k  (40  1)  specifically  calls  this  day  ro'sh  ha- 
shunah,  and  Lev  25  <)  specifies  it  as  the  opening  of 
the  Jubilee  year  (contrast  the  Mish  passage,  above). 
Consequently  scholars  generally  are  inclined  to 
assign  Lev  23  23-25  and  Nu  29  1 -<i  to  the  latest 
part  of  the  Pent  (Ps).  This  need  not  mean  that 
the  observance  of  the  1st  (or  10th)  of  Tishri  was  late, 
but  only  that  the  final  adoption  of  the  day  into 
Israel's  official  calendar,  with  a  fixed  ritual  for  all 
Israelites,  was  delayed.  If  the  original  New  \  ear  s 
Day  fell  on  the  10th  of  Tishri,  its  displacement  ten 
davs  earlier  was  certainly  due  to  the  adoption  of  the 
10th  for  the  Day  of  Atonement.  An  explanation 
of  the  date  of  the  latter  feast  would  be  gained  by 
this  supposition. 

The  instrument  to  be  used  in  the  trumpeting  is 
not  specified  in  the  Bible,  but  Jewish  tradition  de- 
cided in  favor  of  the  horn  and  not  the 
5.  Later         metal  trumpet,   permitting   for   syna- 
History  gogue  use  any  kind  of  horn  except  a 

cow's,     but    for    temple    use    only    a 
straight    (antelope's)   horn   and  never    a    crooked 


.302") 


Till']  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  IHBLI-:  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Trough 
Truth 


(ram's)  horn  (Ito'xli  IHI-N/HIH<IJI,  iil. '2  Ij.  According 
to  iv.  1 ,  when  I  lie  new  year  begun  on  a  Sabbath  t  he 
horns  were  blown  only  in  the  temple,  but,  after  it- 
destruction  they  were  blown  in  every  synagogue. 
Kvery  Isruehte  was  obliged  to  come  within  hearing 
distance  of  the  sound  (iii.Tj.  Jn  the  synagogue 


Ancient   Horn-i  and 


liturgy  of  iv. 5-9  (which  forms  the  basis  of  the 
modern  Jewish  practice1),  four  sets  of  "benedictions" 
were  read,  and  after  each  of  the  last  three  sets  the 
horn  blown  nine  times.  Modern  Judaism  sees  in  the 
signals  a  call  to  self-examination  and  repent  mice,  in 
view  of  the  approaching  Day  of  Atonement.  See 
Tur.Mi'KT,  111,2,  (Sj.  BUHTOX  SCOTT  K ASTON 

TRUST,  BREACH  OF:  The  clearest  reference 
to  the  crime  designated  by  this  modern  expression 
is  found  in  Lev  6  2-7,  where  the  transgression  is 
defined  and  the  penally  set  forth.  Breach  of  cove- 
nant or  contract  and  the  removal  of  landmarks 
(IK  19  14;  27  17;  Prov  22  2S;  23  10)  may  be 
included. 

TRUTH,  tr.Toth  (TVCS  ,  'cmHli,  «V12X  ,  'einilntlli, 
primary  idea  of  "firmness,"  "stability"  [cf  Ex  17 
12|,  hence  "constancy,"  "faithfulness,"  etc;  LXX 
Apoc  and  NT,  dXifjOeia,  alct/icitt  [Horn  3  7|,  irio-ris, 
pixtis  [Rom  3  :->];  in  adjectival  and  adverbial  sense, 
"in  truth,"  "of  a  truth,"  "faithful,"  etc;  aXi^us, 
(ili'tlibs  [Lk  21  3;  Jn  6  14;  7  40;  1  Thess  2  T.l\, 
d\Ti0i.v6s,  (dcl/iino*  [Jn  17  3],  SVTIOS,  ontos  [I  Cor  14 
25],  -ITIO-TOS,  pMta  [1  Tim  3  1|,  in  AV;  RY,  ARY, 
as  generally,  "faithful";  AS  trcotr,  try  to  with  Teu- 
tonic stem  trail,  "to  believe,"  "to  keep  faith"): 

I.     TERMS 
II.      ( '•  K  xi-:  HA  i.  VIEW 

1.  Aspects  of  Trul h 

(1)  Ontological 

(2)  Logical" 
(.'{)    Moral 
(4)    Religious 

2.  Standards  of  Truth 

:{.   Special  Features  in  Biblical  Writings 
III.     ANALYTICAL  SUMMARY 

1.  Truth  in  (iod 

2.  Truth  in  Man 

3.  Truth  in  Religion 

/.  Terms. — The  Eng.  word  has  developed  and  main- 
tained the  broadest,  most  general  and  varied  usage,  going 
beyond  both  Jleb  and  (Jr.  which  were  already  extended 
in  connotation.  It  is  possible  to  analyze  and  classify 
the  special  applications  of  the  term  almost  indefinitely, 
using  other  terms  to  indicate  specific  meanings  in  special 
connections,  e.g.  loyalty  (.Igs  9  15),  honesty  (Ex  18  'M  ; 
fidelity  (I)t  32  4i.  justice  (Rom  2  2),"  uprightness 
(Isa  38  3),  faith  (26  2),  righteousness  (Ps  85  10),  real- 
ity (Jn  17  19;,  veracity  (Gen  42  Hi).  It  is  unfortunate 
that,  translators  have  generally  adhered  to  single,  terms 
to  represent  the  original  words.  On  the  other  hand, 
they  have  sometimes  introduced  words  not  represented 
in  the  original,  and  thus  unduly  limited  the  meaning 
An  example  is  Kph  4  15.  where  the  original  meaning 
"  being  true."  i.e.  in  all  respects  is  narrowed  to  "speak- 
ing the  truth." 

//.  General  View. — No  term  is  more  familiar 
and  none  more  difficult  of  definition. 

With  applications  in  every  phase  of  life  and  thought 
the  word  has  varying  general  senses  which  may  be  classi- 
fied as: 


ft  i    <>ii/i>l<ii/irtil  truth,  i.e.  accurate  and  adequate  idea  of 
existence  as  ultimate  reality.      In    this   sense   it    is  a  term 
of  metaphysics,  and   will  be  differently  de- 
1.   Aspects       lined  according  to  the  type  of  philosophical 
nf  TriitVi  theory    accepted.      This    aspect   of  truth   is 

never  primary  in  Scripture  unless  jn  the 
question  of  Pilate  (.In  18  X*>.  He  had  so 
far  missed  the  profound  ethical  sense  in  which  Jesus  used 
the  word  that  Jesus  did  not  at  all  answer  him,  nor, 
indeed,  does  Pilate  seem  to  have  expected  any  reply  to 
what  was  probably  only  the  contemptuous  thrust  of  a 
skeptical  attitude.  In  Prov  where,  if  at  all.  we  might 
look  for  the  abstract,  idea,  we  find  rather  the  practical 
apprehension  of  the  true  meaning  and  method  of  life 
(23  2:i).  Ontological  reality  and  possible  ideas  of  real- 
ity apprehending  it  are  obviously  presupposed  in  all 
Scripture.  There  is  objective  reality  on  which  subjec- 
tive ideas  depend  for  their  validity;  and  all  knowing  is 
knowledge  of  reality.  There  is  also  in  the  whole  of 
Scripture  a  subjective  idea,  the  product  of  revelation  or 
inspiration  in  some  form  of  working,  that  constitutes  an 
ideal  to  be  reali/ed  objectively.  The  Kingdom  of  (iod, 
for  example,  is  the  formative  idea  of  Scripture  teaching. 
In  a  definite  sense  Hie  kingdom  exists  and  still  it  is  to  be 
created.  Jt  must  be  kept  in  mind,  however,  that  only 
vaguely  and  indirectly  does  truth  have  abstract,  meta- 
physical meaning  to  the,  Bib.  writers.  For  John  it 
approaches  this,  but  the  primary  interest  is  always 
concrete. 

(2)  L<j,/;rr,l  truth  is  expressive;  of  the  relation  between 
the  knower  and  that  which  is  known,  and  depends  upon 
the  arrangement  of  ideas  with  reference  to  a  central  or 
composite  idea.     Truth  in  this  sense  involves  the  corre- 
spondence of  concepts  with  facts.      While  this  meaning 
of  truth  is  involved  in  Scripture,  it  is  not  the  primary 
meaning  anywhere,   save  in  a  practical  religious  appli- 
cation, as  in  Eph  4  21;    1    Jn  2  -J.21. 

(3)  Mural  truth  is  correspondence  of  expression  with 
inner  conception.     Taken  in  its  full  meaning  of  corre- 
spondence of  idea  with  fact,  of  expression  with  thought 
and  with  intention,  of  concrete  reality  with  ideal  type 
this  is  the  characteristic  sense;  of  the  word  in  the  Scrip- 
tures.     Here  the  aim  of  religion  is  to  relate  man  to  (iod 
in  accordance  with  truth.      In  apprehension  man  is  to 
know  (iod  and  His  order  as  they  art;  in  fact  and  in  idea, 
in  achievement  man  is  to  make  true  in  his  own  expe- 
rience the  idea  of  (iod  that  is  given  to  him.      Truth  is 
thus  partly  to  be  apprehended  and  partly  to  be  produced 
The  emphatically  characteristic  teaching  of  Christianitv 
is  that  the  will  to  produce  truth,  to  do  the  will  of  (iod 
is    the    requisite    attitude    for  apprehending  the  truth! 
This  teaching  of  Jesus  in  Jn  7  17  is  in  accord  with  the 
entire    teaching   of    the    Bible.      Kph   1    IS   suggests    the 
importance   of   right   attitude   for   learning,    while   4   IS 
shows  the  effect  of  a  wrong  attitude  in  ignorance  of  vital 
truth. 

(4)  Religious  truth  is  a  term  frequently  met  in  modern 
literature,    but  it   has    no  sound   basis    in    reason    and 
it  has  none  at  all  in  the    Bible.      All  truth  is  ultimately 
religious    and    only    in    a   superficial    way   can    religious 
truth    be    spoken    of    as    an    independent    conception 
Least  of  all  can  religious  truth  and  scientific  truth  be  at 
variance. 

Philosophy  has  continuously  tried  to  find  tests 
for  truth,  and  so  has  wrought  out  theories  of  knowl- 
edge— epistemologies.  Not  to  go  back 
2.  Stand-  into  the  Gr  philosophy,  we  have  in 
ards  of  modern  times  such  theories  as  (1)  the 

Truth  Kantian,  ('_>)  the  .scholastic,  ('•>>}  the 

Hegelian,  (4)  the  pragmatic,  (.">)  that  of 
the  "new  realism";  and  these  include  only  such  as 
may  be  defined  with  some  clearness,  for  the  tend- 
encies of  current  thought  have  been  toward  con- 
fusion concerning  all  standards  of  truth  ami  reality, 
and  so  toward  widespread  agnosticism  and  skepti- 
cism. This  temper  has,  naturally,  reacted  on 
thinking  in  practical  ethics  and  upon  the  sanctions 
of  religion.  There  is  thus  in  religion  and  morals  a 
tendency  to  obscure  the  distinction  between  what 
is  and  what  ought  to  be.  See  At  THOKITY;  KTIIICS; 
PHILOSOPHY;  RHIHT;  Six. 

In  the  Bible  the  known  will  of  God  is  final  for 
man  as  a  standard  of  truth,  not  as  arbitrary,  but  as 
expressive  of  God's  nature.  God's  nature  is  all- 
comprehensive  of  fact  and  goodness,  and  so  is,  all 
and  in  all,  the  source,  .support  and  objective  of  all 
concrete  being.  The  will  of  God  thus  reveals,  per- 
suades to  and  achieves  the  ideals  and  ends  of  com- 
plete ('xistence.  The  term  "truth"  is  sometimes, 
therefore,  nearly  equivalent  to  the  revealed  will  of 
God. 

(1)  The  OT  uses  the  term  primarily  of  God  and 


Truth 
Tumor 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


302(5 


applies    the   principle   to   mail.     The   practical   ob- 
jective is  ever  prominent. 

(2)  The  Synoptic  Gospels  and  Acts 
3.  Special  use  the  term  chiefly  in  popular  idio- 
Features  in  inatic  phrases  "of  a  truth,"  "in  truth," 
Biblical  "surely"  (cf  Lk  22  59;  Acts  4  27). 

Writings  In  Mt  22  10  there  is  a  more  serious 
and  comprehensive  application,  but  it 
is  in  the  flattering  words  of  Pharisaic  hypocrisy  (cf 
Mk  12  14;  Lk  20  21).  To  be  sure,  we  are  to 
understand  that  even  in  the  phrases  of  common 
spetvh  Jesus  employed  the  term  in  all  .seriousness 
(Lk  4  2:>;  9  27). 

(3)  In   Paul  the  sense  of  Divine  faithfulness,  as 
in  the  OT,  is  occasionally  met  (Rom  3  3.7;   15  8). 
Again  the  term  emphasizes   sincerity   (1  Cor  5  S; 
2  Cor  7  14).     Generally   it   has   direct   or   clearly 
implied  reference  to  God's  revelation  in  Jesus  Christ 
with  a  view  to  redeeming  men.     In  a  general  way 
the  term  is  thus  equivalent  to  the  gospel,  but  there 
is  never  identification  of  the  two  terms  (see  Rom  2 
S;     Eph  1  13;     1  Tim  3  15).     In   Gal  2  5;     5  7, 
'•the  truth  of  the  gospel"  is  its  content  in  the  pur- 
pose of  God,  iu  contrast  with  misconceptions  of  it: 
the  true  gospel  as  against  false  representations  of 
the  gospel. 

(4)  In  the  Johannine  writings  we  find  occasion- 
ally  the  emphatic    phrase  of   genuineness    (1  Jn  3 
18;   2  Jn  ver  1;    3  Ju  ver  1)  and  emphatic  reality 
(Jn  8  40;    16  7).     In  Rev  we  have   "true"  in  the 
sense  of  trustworthy,  because  ultimately  real  or  in 
accord  with  ultimate  reality  (3  7.14;    6  10;    15  3; 
19  9.11,   etc).     Generally,    as    in    the   Gospel,   we 
approach  more  nearly  than  elsewhere  in  Scripture 
a  metaphysical  use,  yet  always  with  the  practical 
religious  end  dominant.     Truth  is  reality  in  rela- 
tion to  the  vital  interests  of  the  soul.     It  is  pri- 
marily something  to  be  realized  and  done,  rather 
than  something  to  be  learned  or  known.     In  the 
largest  aspect  it   is  God's  nature  rinding  expression 
in  His  creation,   in   revelation,   in  Jesus  Christ   in 
whom    "grace    and    truth    came"    (Jn  1   17),    and 
finally  in  man  apprehending,  accepting  and  prac- 
tically realizing  the  essential  values  of  life,  which 
are  the  will  of  God    (Jn  1   14;    8  32;    17  19;    18 
37  f;    1  Jn  2  21;    3  19).     Truth  is  personalized  in 
Jesus  Christ.     He  truly  expresses  God,  presents  the 
true  ideal  of  man,  in   Himself  summarizes  the  har- 
mony of  existence  and  becomes  the  agent  for  unify- 
ing the  disordered  world.     Hence  He  is  the  Truth 
(Jn   14  0),    the   true  expression   ("Logos,"    Jn  1  1) 
of  God.     See  the  same;  idea  without  the  terminology 
in    Paul    (Col  1  14.  fT;    2  9).     Similarly,    the   Holy 
Spirit  is  the  Spirit  of  truth  because  His  function  is 
to  guide  into  all  t rut h  (Jn  16  13;   1  Jn  2  27;  5  7). 

(5)  It  is  understood  by  many  that  in  Jas,  Pet, 
He,  and  possibly  the  Pastoral  Epp.,  the  term 
connotes  "the  body  of  Christian  teaching"  (cf  Jas 
1  18;  3  14;  1  Pet  1  22;  2  Pet  2  2;  He  10  20; 
1  Tim  3  15).  The  use  of  the  article  here  cannot 
be  conclusive,  and  instead  of  "the  body  of  Christian 
teaching,"  it  seems  more  correct  to  understand  the 
reality  of  life  values  as  represented  in  the  gospel 
plan  of  salvation  and  of  living.  In  a  general  way 
this  would  include  "the  body  of  Christian  teaching," 
but  the  reference  would  be  less  concrete.  Jas  is 
too  early  a  writing  to  employ  the  term  in  this  so 
specific  a  sense. 

///.  Analytical    Summary.—  (1)  Truth    is    pre- 
sented in  Scripture  as  a  chief  element  in  the  nature 
of    God     (Ps  31  5;     Isa  65  10).      (2) 
1.  Truth        But  this  quality  is  never  given  as  an 
in  God  abstract  teaching,  but  only  as  qualify- 

ing God  in  His  relations  and  activities. 
So  it  is  a  guaranty  of  constancy  (Dt  32  4;  Ps  100 
5;  146  0;  Jas  1  17);  esp.  a  ground  of  confidence 
in  His  promises  (Ex  34  0;  Ps  91  4;  146  0);  of 


right  dealing  with  men  without  reference;  to  any 
explicit,  pledges  (Ps  85  1 1 ;  89  14);  a  basis  of 
security  in  the  correctness  of  His  teachings  (Neh 
9  13;  Ps  119  112;  Isa  25  Ij;  of  assurance 
within  His  covenant  relations  (Ps  89  5;  Isa  55  3). 

(3)  God's  truth  is  esp.  noteworthy  :is  a  guaranty 
of  merciful  consideration  of  men.     This  is  an  im- 
portant element,  in  the  theology  of  the  OT,  as  it  is 
a  point  guarded  also  in  the  NT  (Ps  25   10;    31  5; 
61  7;     85  10;     98  3;     Ju  3   10;     Rom  3  23-20). 

(4)  Equally  is  the  truth  of  (rod  an  assurance  to  men 
of  righteous  judgment   in  condemnation  of  sin  and 
sinners    (I  S  15  29;     Ps  96  13;     Rom  2  2.8).     In 
general  the  truth  of  God  stands  for  the  consistency 
of  His  nature  and  guarantees  His  full  response  in 
all  the  relations  of  a  universe  of  which  He  is  the 
maker,  preserver  and  end. 

As  related  to  God  in  origin  and  obligation,  man 
is  bound  morally  to  see;  and  respond  to  all  the  de- 
mands of  his  relations  to  God  and  to 
2.  Truth         the  order  in  which  he  lives  under  God. 
in  Man  (1)   Truthfulness    in   speech,  and    also 

in  the  complete  response  of  his  nature 
to  the  demand  upon  it,  is  urged  as  a  quality  to  be 
found  in  man  and  is  commended  where  found,  as 
its  lack  is  condemned.  It  is  essential  to  true  man- 
hood. Here,  as  in  the  case  of  truth  in  God,  truth 
is  regarded  as  revealed  in  social  relations  and  respon- 
sibilities. Truth  is  not  merely  in  utterance,  nor 
is  it  only  response  to  a  specific  command  or  word, 
but  lies  in  the  response  of  the  will  and  life  to  the 
essential  obligations  of  one's  being  (Ps  15  2;  119 
30;  Prov  12  19;  23  23;  Isa  59  4,14.15;  Jer  7  28; 
9  3;  Hos  4  1;  Rom  1  18.25;  Eph  4  15;  2  Thess 
2  10.12). 

(2)  Truth  in  man  is  in  response  to  truth  in  God, 
and  is  to  be  acquired  on  the  basis  of  a  gift  from  God. 
This  gift  comes  by  way  of  teaching  and  also  by  way 
of  the  working  of  the  Divine  Spirit  in  the  life  of  man. 
Highest  truth  in  correspondence  to  ideal  is  possible 
only  by  the  working  of  "the  God  of  truth"  in  the 
spirit  of  the  man.  Man's  freedom  to  realize  his 
being  is  dependent  upon  his  receptive  attitude 
toward  the  Son  of  God.  Hence  salvation  in  its 
fullest  idea  is  stated  in  terms  of  truth  (Jn  11  3  IT; 
Phil  3  10  IT).  See  in  general,  Ps  51  0;  Isa  25  1; 
Jn  3  21;  8  32;  16  13;  17  19;  18  37;  Eph  4  21. 
24;  5  9;  He  10  20;  1  Jn  2  27. 

The  modem  study  of  religion  on  an  evolutionary 
hypothesis  and  the' comparative  study  of  religions 
have;  contributed  to  an  _  extensive 
3.  Truth  in  questioning  whether  there  is  any  ab- 
Religion  solute  truth  in  religion,  or  at  least  any 
standards  by  which  truth  in  religion 
may  be  known.  Isa  43 "and  44  and  Paul  in  Acts 
17  "and  Gal  3  accord  with  modern  findings  that 
there  is  an  element  of  truth  in  religions  generally, 
and  that,  God's  faithfulness  pledges  Him  to  bring 
the  light  of  fuller  truth  to  all  men.  This  He  does 
through  the  religion  and  the  testimony  of  them  to 
whom  He  has  already  come  with  this  fuller  light. 
This  light  is  contained  in  the  revealed  word  of  the 
OT  prophets  and  of  the  NT  witnesses  to  Jesus. 
In  a  definite  way  the  Scriptures  preserve  these 
standards  of  religious  truth.  But  always  the  atti- 
tude of  the  individual,  as  also  of  the  group,  del  er- 
mines the  measure  of  apprehension  of  the  truth  and 
the  certainty  with  which  it  is  held.  It  is  always 
important  to  keep  in  mind  that  truth  in  religion  is 
not  primarily  an  intellectualistic  affair,  to  be  cog- 
nized, but  is  essentially  a  voluntaristic  experience 
and  a  duty  to  be  done  for  the  glory  of  God  in  the 
realization  of  the  complete  truth  of  God.  Jesus 
Christ  as  the  truth  of  God  becomes  the  standard 
and  test  for  truth  in  the  religion  of  men.  And  this 
not  in  any  objective  and  formal  way  of  a  series  of 
propositions,  to  be  accepted  and  contended  for, 


3027 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Truth 
Tumor 


but  in  the  subjective;  way  of  experience,  in  a  series 
of  ideals  to  be  realized  and  propagated.  If  any 
man  wishes  to  do  God's  will,  he  shall  be  able  to 
decide  the  truth  of  religious  teaching,  and  the  Son 
who  is  true  will  give  the  freedom  of  truth  (.In  7  17; 
8  32).  WILLIAM  OWEN  CAHVER 

TRYPHAENA,  trl-fe'na  (Tpvcjxuva,  Truphaina; 
AY  Tryphena) :  Tryphaena  is  coupled  with  "Try- 
phosa" — among  those  members  of  the  Christian 
community  at  Rome  to  whom  Paul  sends  greetings 
(Rom  16  12).  He  describes  them  as  those  "who 
labor  in  the  Lord."  "The  names,  which  might  be 
rendered  'Dainty'  and  'Disdain'  (see  Jas  5  o; 
Isa  66  11),  are  characteristically  pagan,  and  unlike 
the  description"  (Denney).  They  were  probably 
sisters  or  near  relatives,  for  "it  was  usual  to  desig- 
nate members  of  the  same  family  by  derivatives  of 
t he  same  root"  (Light foot,  J'/iil,  ]7f>).  Both  names 
are  found  in  inscriptions  connected  with  the  im- 
perial household,  "Tryphosa"  occurring  more  fre- 
quently than  "Tryphaena."  S.  F.  HUNTER 

TRYPHON,  trl'fon  (Tpv^uv,  Truphon):  The 
surname  of  Diodotus,  a  usurper  of  the  Syrian 
throne.  He  was  a  native  of  Apamea,  and  had  been 
in  the  service  of  Alexander  Balas.  On  the  death  of 
Balas  (145  BC),  Tryphon,  taking  advantage  of  the 
murmurs  of  discontent  among  the  troops  of  De- 
metrius II  (Nicator),  set  up  the  younger  son  of 
Balas,  Antiochus  VI,  as  claimant  to  the  throne 
against  Demetrius  (1  Aluec  11  39).  The  Jews 
under  Jonathan  came  to  the  assistance  of  Demetrius 
in  liis  difficulties  against  his  revolting  subjects.  But 
Demetrius,  when  confirmed  on  his  throne,  soon 
made  it  apparent  that  he  did  not  intend  to  fulfil  his 
promises  to  his  Jewish  allies  (11  .53).  Conse- 
quently Jonathan  and  Simon  joined  Tryphon  and 
Antiochus  VI,  securing  many  advantages  for  their 
country  (11  54  fT).  Jonathan  inflicted  a  severe 
defeat,  on  the  forces  of  Demetrius.  The  successes 
of  the  Jewish  leaders  awakened  the  jealousy  and 
suspicion  of  Tryphon,  who  determined  to  thwart 
the  further  plans  of  Jonathan  and  to  remove  him 
as  an  obstacle  in  the  way  of  his  securing  the  crown 
for  himself.  By  an  act  of  shrewd  treachery,  Try- 
phon captured  Jonathan  at  Ptolemais  and  butchered 
all  his  followers  (12  48).  Simon,  brother  of  Jona- 
than, now  undertook  the  conduct  of  affairs  and 
thwarted  Tryphon  in  his  attempts  upon  Jerus, 
whereupon  the  latter  murdered  Jonathan  at  Bas- 
cama  (13  1  ff)  in  143  BC.  Tryphon  next  mur- 
dered the  young  Antiochus  VI  (13  31)  and  claimed 
the  throne  of  Syria  for  himself  (143  BC)  (but  see 
the  chronology  as  given  in  Schiirer,  HJ P,  4th  ed, 
I,  172).  Simon  now  went  over  to  the  side  of 
Demetrius  on  condition  that  Judaea  should  be  free 
from  tribute  to  Syria — a  privilege  that  was  rather  in 
t  he  power  of  Tryphon  than  of  Demetrius  to  give,  and 
so  "in  the  170th  year  [143  BC]  was  the  yoke,  of 
the  heathen  taken  away  from  Israel"  (13  41).  In 
138  BC  Demetrius  was  captured  by  Mithridates  1 
(Arsaces),  king  of  Parthia  (14  2).  His  brother, 
Antiochus  VII  (Sidetes),  continued  the  struggle 
against  Tryphon,  first  with  the  aid  of  Simon,  but 
later  repudiating  it.  Tryphon  was  obliged  to  flee 
before  Sidetes  to  Dor  (15  11),  where  Antiochus 
refused  the  assistance  of  Simon  (15  26).  He  next 
escaped  to  Ptolemais,  then  to  Orthosia,  and  finally 
to  his  native  Apamea,  where  he  was  driven  to  suicide 
(Jos,  Ant,  XIII,  vii,  2;  Strabo,  668;  Appian,  *Syr, 
68).  (The  best  account  is  given  in  Schiirer,  4th 
ed,  I,  172  ff;  cf  also  Speaker's  Comm.  in  loc.)  See 
ANTIOCHUS;  DEMETRIUS.  S.  ANGUS 

TRYPHOSA,  trl-fd'sa  (Tpv<J>«<ra,  Truphosa): 
Greetings  are  sent  by  Paul  to  "Tryphaena  and  Try- 


phosa, who  labor  in  the  Lord"  (Rom   16   12).     See 
TRYPHAENA. 

TSADHE,  tsa-tha'.     See  (;.M>HE. 


TUBAL,  tu'bal  (lip  ,  hiblial,  "DI^  ,  tubhfil;LXX 
06(3€\,  Thobii,  \  in  E/k  39  1,  06p«p,  Thobcr): 
As  the  text  stands,  Tuba!  and  Meshoch  an;  alwavs 
coupled,  except  in  Isa  66  19  (MT)  and  Ps  120  o. 
In  the  former  passage  Tubal  is  yoked  with  Javan  ; 
in  the  latter  Meshech  occurs  in  ver  o  and  Kedar  in 
ver  6.  In  Gen  10  2',  they  are  sons  of  Japhcth. 
In  Ezk  (27  13)  the  two  are  mentioned  as  ex- 
porters of  slaves  and  copper,  as  a  warlike  people 
of  antiquity  (32  26),  in  the  army  of  Gog  (38  2  if; 
39  1).  Jos  identifies  them  with  the  Iberians  and 
Cappadocians  respectively;  but  they  are  most  prob- 
ably the  Tiftap^voi,  Tibarctioi,  and  I\16crxot,  Mo.ir/itii, 
first  mentioned  in  Herod,  hi.  94  as  belonging  to  the 
19th  satrapy  of  Darius,  and  again  (vii.  78)  as  furnish- 
ing a  contingent  to  the  host  of  Xerxes.  Equally 
obvious  is  their  identity  with  the  Tabali  and  Muski 
of  the  Assyr  monuments,  where  tin;  latter  is  men- 
tioned as  early  as  Tiglath-pileser  I,  and  the  former 
under  Shalmaneser  II;  both  are  described  as  power- 
ful military  states.  They  appear  together  in  Sar- 
gon's  inscriptions;  and  during  this  entire  period  their 
territory  must  have  extended  much  farther  S.  and 
W.  than  in  Gr-llom  times.  They  are  held  (\Vinckler 
and  Jeremias)  to  have  been  remnants  of  the  old 
Hittite  population  which  were  gradually  driven 
(probably  by  the  Cimmerian  invasion)  to  the  moun- 
tainous district  S.E.  of  the  Black  Sea. 

HORACE  J.  WOLF 

TUBAL-CAIN,  tU'bal-kan  Opp.  b^n,  tubhal 
kai/in):  One  of  the  sons  of  Lamech  (Gen  4  22). 
He  is  a  brother  of  Jabal  and  Jubal,  who  appear  to 
have  been  the  founders  of  several  industries  and 
arts.  The  text  (bt-QI  niDii:  C"in~b3  tClSb  ,  lotesh 
koi  horesh  nehosheth  u-bharzcl)  has  been  the  cause  of 
endless  dispute.  Holzinger  and  Gunkel  hold  that 
TL'725  was  a  marginal  gloss  to  12?  in  ,  and  that,  as  in 
vs  20  and  21,  there  stood  before  ~^D  originally 
"'US  mn  Sin  ,  hu  Imyah  'dbhl.  This  would  make 
Tubal-cain  the  founder  of  the  metal  industry,  and 
place  him  in  a  class  similar  to  that  of  his  brothers. 
The  LXX,  however,  has  no  equivalent  of  "pp  .  This 
omission  leads  Dillmann,  Wellhausen,  and  others  to 
the  position  that  "Tubal"  originally  stood  alone, 
and  'pp  ,  being  a  later  addition,  was  trd  "smith." 
Many  commentators  identify  Tubal  with  the 
Assyr  Tubal,  a  people  living  S.W.  of  the  Black  Sea; 
in  later  times  they  were  called  "Tibareni"  (Ezk  27 
13).  Tubal  may  be  the  eponymous  ancestor  of 
these  people,  whose  principal  industry  seems  to 
have  been  the  manufacture  of  vessels  of  bronze  and 
iron.  HORACE  J.  WOLF 

TUB  I  AS,  tu'bi-as,  tu'bi-as  (iv  rots  T«ptov,  en 
tots  Tobiou;  AV  "in  the  places  of  Tobie,"  RV  "in 
the  land  of  Tubias"):  A  place  in  Gilead  where  1,000 
men  of  the  Jews  were  slaughtered  by  the  Gentiles, 
their  wives  and  children  being  carried  away  captive 
(1  Mace  5  13).  It  is  identified  with  the  land  of 
TOB  (q.v.). 


TUBIENI,  tu-bi-e'nl  (irpos  TOVS  X.fy°Nl^vox'S 
vovs  'Iov8a£ous,  pros  tons  Iegom6nous  Toubienous 
loudaious,  "unto  the  Jews  that  are  called  Tubieni"): 
Men  of  Ton  (q.v.)  who  had  occupied  the  town  of 
Charax  (2  Mace  12  17). 

TUMOR,  tu'mer,  tu'mor  (bar  ,  <ophel):  RV  sub- 
stitutes this  word  for  "erncrods"  in  1  S  5  12;  6  4; 
Dt  28  27  m.  See  EMERODS. 


THK  IXTKRXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Turban 
Type 

TURBAN,  tur'ban  (Lev  16  4  in).     Sec  DRESS,  V. 

TURPENTINE,  tur'pen-tln,  TREE.  See  TERE- 
BINTH. 

TURTLE-DOVE,  tur't'1-duv.     See  DOVE. 

TUTOR,  tu'ter:  In  modern  Eng.  an  "instructor," 
more  particularly  a  private  instructor,  but  the  word 
properly  means  a  "guardian."  Hence  its  use  in 
(rtl  4  2  AV  for  e-n-LTpoTTos,  cpitropox,  hen;  "guard- 
ian" (so  RV),  and  1  Cor  4  ir>;(Gal  3  24.25  RV 
for  iraiSaywyos,  paidayogus.  See  SCHOOLMASTER. 


3028 


TWELVE,  twelv  ("liO^  C"1:^  ,  slfnum  Yi.sd/v 
8w8€Ktt,  ilodt'ka).  See  APOSTLE;  XTMUKK. 

TWELVE    APOSTLES,    GOSPELS    OF    THE. 

See  APOCRYPHAL  GOSPELS. 

TWELVE  PATRIARCHS,  TESTAMENTS  OF 
THE.  See  APOCALYPTIC  LITERATI-RE,  IV,  1. 

TWELVE  STARS.     See  ASTKONOMY,  II,  12. 
TWENTY,  t\ven'ti.     Sec  NUMBER. 

TWILIGHT,  twi'llt  (?t::  ,  ncsJn-pli'):  The 
twilight  of  Pal  is  of  short  duration,  owing  to  the 
low  latitude,  there  being  scarcely  more  than  an  hour 
betwecni  sunset  and  complete  darkness.  It.  is  a  dis- 
tinct boundary  between  daytime  and  the  darkness. 
The  people  of  Pal  still  give  the  time  of  an  event  as 
so  many  hours  before  or  after  sunrise  or  sunset: 
"David  smote  them  from  the  twilight  even  unto  the 
evening  of  the  next  day"  (L  S  30  17),  and  "They 
rose  up  in  the  twilight,  to  go"  (2  K  7  f>).  Tin- 
word  is  evidently  used  in  the  sense  of  darkness  in 
"the  stars  of  twilight"  (Job  3  9)  and  "The  adulterer 
waiteth  for  the  twilight"  (Job  24  I/)).  AV  has 
"twilight"  in  Ezk  12  Off,  but  RV  lias  •'dark." 

ALFRED  II.  JOY" 

TWIN  BROTHERS  (Acts  28  11).  See  DIOS- 
CURI. 

TWINE,  twin  pTttJ,  shaznr,  "to  be  twined"): 
The  word  is  used  in  Ex  26  1  ff  ;  36  S  ff,  etc,  of  the 
"fine  twined  linen"  used  for  the  curtains  and  hang- 
ings of  the  tabernacle,  and  for  parts  of  the  priests' 
dress.  It  denotes  linen  the  iinely  spun  threads  of 
which  consisted  of  two  or  more  smaller  threads 
twined  together.  See  LINEN;  TABERNACLE. 

TWO,  too.     See  NUMBER. 

TYCHICUS,  tik'i-kus  (Tvx^os,  Tuc/iiknx,  lit. 
"chance"):  Mentioned  5  1  in  the  NT  (Acts  20  4; 
Eph  6  21;  Col  4  7;  2  Tim  4  12;  Tit  3  12;;  an 
Asiatic  Christian,  a  friend  and  companion  of  the 
apostle  Paul. 

(1)  In  the  first  of  these  passages  his  name  occurs 
as  one  of  a,  company  of  the  friends  of  Paul.  The 
apostle,  at  the  close  of  his  3d  missionary  journey, 
was  returning  from  Greece  through  Macedonia 
into  Asia,  with  a  view  to  go  to  Jems.  This  journey 
proved  to  be  the  last  which  he  made,  before  his 
apprehension  and  imprisonment.  It  was  felt,  both 
by  himself  and  by  his  friends,  that  this  journey  was 
a  specially  important  one.  He  was  on  his  way  to 
Jerus,  "bound  in  the  spirit"  (Acts  20  22).  But 
another  cause  which  gave  it  particular  importance 
was  that  he  and  his  friends  were  carrying  the  money 
which  had  been  collected  for  several  years  previous 
in  the  churches  of  the  Gentiles,  for  the  help  of  the 
poor  members  of  the  church  in  Jems  (Acts  24 
17).  No  fewer  than  eight  of  his  intimate  friends  ac- 


companied  him  into  Asia,  and  one  of  these  was  T. 
Luke  uses  the  word  "Asian"  (EV  "of  Asia,"  Acts 
20  4)  to  describe  T.  lie  was  with  Paul  at  Troas, 
and  evidently  journeyed  with  him,  as  one  of  "Paul's 
company"  (Acts  21  8  AV),  all  the  way  to  Jerus. 

(2)  The  2d  and  3d  passages  in  which  the  name  of 
Tychicus  occurs  (see  above)  give  the  information 
that  he  was  with  Paul  in  Rome  during  his  first 
imprisonment.  In  Col  Paul  writes,  "All  my  affairs 
shall  Tychicus  make  known  unto  you,  the  beloved 
brother' and  faithful  minister  and  fellow-servant  in 
the  Lord:  whom  I  have  sent  unto  you  for  this  very 
purpose,  that  ye  may  know  our  state,  and  that  he 
may  comfort  your  hearts"  (4  7.S).  In  almost  iden- 
tical words  he  writes  in  Eph,  "But  that  ye  also  may 
know  my  affairs,  how  1  do,  Tychicus,  the  beloved 
brother  'and  faithful  minister  in  the  Lord,  shall 
make  known  to  you  all  tilings:  whom  1  have  sent, 
unto  you  for  this  very  purpose,  that  ye  may  know 
our  state,  and  that  he  may  comfort  your  hearts" 
(.6  21.22). 

Paul  had  intrusted  T.  with  a  very  important  mission. 
He  \\iis  lo  deliver  the  Kp.  to  the  Kph,  that  is,  "the  cir- 
cular letter"  (see  LAODICKANS,  EI-ISTI.IO  TO  TIIK)  to  the 
churches  in  proconsular  Asia,  to  which  it  was  sent, 
triving  a  copy  of  it  to  the  church  in  Laodicea.  He  was 
then  to  proceed  to  Colossae.  with  the  Kp.  to  the  church 
there.  In  Colossae  T.  would  plead  the  cause  of  Onesi- 
miis  who  accompanied  him  from  Rome.  "Under  his 
shelter  Onesimus  would  be  safer  than  if  he  encountered 
I'hilemon  alone"  (Lightfoot,  Comm.  on  C<>1,  314).  In 
Laodicea  and  Colossae  T.  would  not  only  deliver  the  hi  pp. 
from  L'aul,  but  he  would  also,  as  the  apostle  had  written 
to  the  churches  in  those  places,  communicate  to  them 
all  information  about  his  "state,"  that  is,  how  things 
were  going  with  him  in  regard  to  his  appeal  to  the  em- 
peror," and  his  hope  of  being  soon  set  at  liberty.  T. 
would  make  known  to  them  all  things. 

(3)  The  passages   in  the  Epp.  to  Titus  and  lo 
Timothy  show  that  T.  was  again  with  Paid,  after 
the  appeal  to  the  emperor  had  resulted  in  the  apostle 

regaining  his  freedom.  The  passage  in  Tit  evi- 
dently refers  to  the  interval  between  Paul's  first 
and  second  Rom  imprisonments,  and  while  he  was 
again  engaged  in  missionary  journeys.  The  apostle 
writes  to  Tii us,  who  was  in  Crete  in  charge  of  the 
churches  there,  that  he  intended  to  send  either 
Artemas  or  T.  to  him,  so  as  to  take  the  oversight 
of  the  work  of  the  gospel  in  that  island,  that  Titus 
might  be  free  to  come  to  be  with  the  apostle  at 
Nicopolis. 

(4)  The    last    passage    where    T.    is    mentioned 
occurs  in  2  Tim,  which  was  written  in  Rome  not 
long   before   Paul's   execution.     To   the   very   end 
Paul  was  busy  as  ever  in  the  work  of  the  gospel; 
and  though  it  would  have  been  a  comfort  to  him 
to  have  his  friends  beside  him,  yet  the  interests  of 
the  kingdom  of  Christ  are  uppermost  in  his  thoughts, 
and  he  sends  these  friends  to  help  the  progress  of 
the  work.     To  the  last,  T.  was  serviceable  as  ever : 
"Tychicus  1  sent  to  Kphesus"  (4  12).     As  Timothy 
was  in  charge  of  the  church  in  Ephesus   (1  Tim 
1  3),  the  coming  of  T.  would  set  him  free,  so  as 
to  enable  him  to  set  off  at  once  to  rejoin  Paid  at 
Home,  as  the  apostle  desired  him  (2  Tim  4  9.21). 

It  should  also  be  noted  that  at  Ephesus  T.  would  be 
able  to  vi.iil  his  old  friend  Trophimus,  who  was,  at  that 
very  time,  only  a  few  miles,  away — at  Miletus,  sick  (2 

It  is  possible  that  T.  is  the  brother  referred  to  in  2 
Cor  8  22  23  as  one  "whom  we  have  many  times  proved 
earnest  in  many  things  ....  [one  of]  the  messengers 
of  the  churches  ....  the  glory  of  Christ." 

(o)  The  character  and  career  of  T.  are  such  as 
show  him  altogether  affectionate,  faithful  and 
worthy  of  the  confidence  reposed  in  him  by  Paul, 
who,  as  already  Been,  sent  him  again  and  again  on 
important  work,  which  could  be  performed  only  by 
a  man  of  ability  and  of  high  Christian  worth  and 
experience.  Thus  all  that  is  known  regarding  I . 
fully  bears  out  the  description  of  his  character  given 


3029 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Turban 
Type 


by  the  apostle  himself ,  th;it  In1  was  11  beloved  brother, 

a  faithful  minister  and  fellow-servant  in  the  Lord. 

JOHN  RUTHERFURD 
TYPE,  lip: 

1.  Definition  of  Type 

2.  Distinctive  Features 

3.  Classification  of  Types 

4.  How  Much  of  the  OT  Is  Typical  ? 

LITERATI;  UK 

The  Bible  furnishes  abundant  evidence  of  the. 
presence  of  types  and  of  typical  instruction  in  the 
Sacred  Word.  The  N'T  attests  this  fact.  It  takes 
up  a  large  number  of  persons  and  things  and  events 
of  former  dispensations,  and  it  treats  them  as 
adumbrations  and  prophecies  of  the  future.  A 
generation  ago  a  widespread  interest  in  the  study  of 
typology  prevailed;  latterly  the  interest  has  largely 
subsided,  chiefly  because  of  the  vagaries  and  ex- 
travagances which  attended  its  treatment  on  the 
part  of  not  a  few  writers.  Pressing  the  typical 
teaching  of  Scripture  so  far  as  to  imperil  the  his- 
torical validity  of  (rod's  word  is  both  dangerous 
and  certain  to  be  followed  by  reaction  and  neglect 
of  the  subject. 

The  word  "type"  is  derived  from  a  Gr  term  TVTTOS, 
tupos,  which  occurs  K>  t  in  the  XT.  It  is  variously 

trd  in  AV,  e.g.  twice  "print"  (Jn  20 
1.  Defini-  2."));  twice;  ''figure"  (Acts  7  43;  Rom 
tion  of  Type  5  14):  twice  "pattern"  (Tit  2  7; 

He  8  5);  once  "fashion"  (Acts  7  44); 
once  "manner"  (Acts  23  25);  once  "form"  (Rom 
6  17);  and  7  t  "example"  (1  Cor  10  G.ll;  Phil 
317;  1  Thess  17:  2  Thess  39;  1  Tim  4  12; 
1  Pet  63).  It  is  clear  from  these  texts  that  the 
NT  writers  use  the  word  "type"  with  some  degree 
of  latitude;  yet  one  general  idea  is  common  to  all, 
namely,  "likeness."  A  person,  event  or  thing  is 
so  fashioned  or  appointed  as  to  resemble  another; 
the  one  is  made  to  answer  to  the  other  in  some 
essential  feature;  in  some  particulars  the  one 
matches  the  other.  The  two  are  called  type  and 
antitype;  and  the  link  which  binds  them  together 
is  the  correspondence,  the  similarity,  of  the  one  with 
the  other. 

Three  other  words  in  the,  NT  express  the  same  general 
idea.  One  is  "shadow"  (omd,  skid.  He  10  1),  " For  the 
law  having  a  shadow  of  the  good  things  to  come"- — as  if 
the  substance  or  reality  that  was  still  future  cast  its 
shadow  backward  into  the  old  economy.  "Shadow"  im- 
plies dimness  and  transitoriness ;  but  it  also  implies  a 
measure  of  resemblance  between  the  one  and  the  other. 

The  2d  term  is  "parable"  (irapapoAr;,  parabolt.  Ho 
9  9);  the  tabernacle  with  its  services  was  an  acted 
parable  for  tho  time  then  present,  adumbrating  thus  tho 
blessed  reality  which  was  to  come. 

The  3d  term  is  "copy,"  or  "pattern"  (vwoSei-y^a, 
hupddeigma),  a  word  that  denotes  a  sketch  or  draft  of 
something  future,  invisible  (Ho  9  28);  the  tabernacle 
and  its  furniture  and  services  were  copies,  outlines  of 
heavenly  things. 

Types  are  pictures,  object-lessons,  by  which  God 
taught  His  people  concerning  His  grace  and  saving 
power.  The  Mosaic  system  was  a  sort  of  kinder- 
garten in  which  God's  people  were  trained  in  Divine 
things,  by  which  also  they  were  led  to  look  for 
better  things  to  come.  An  old  writer  thus  expresses 
it:  "God  in  the  types  of  the  last  dispensation  was 
teaching  His  children  their  letters.  In  this  dis- 
pensation He  is  teaching  them  to  put  the  letters 
together,  and  they  find  that  the  letters,  arrange 
them  as  they  will,  spell  Christ,  and  nothing  but 
Christ." 

In  creation  the  Lord  uses  one  thing  for  many  pur- 
poses. One  simple  instrument  meets  many  ends.  For 
now  many  ends  does  water  serve!  And  the  atmosphere: 
it  supplies  the  lungs,  conveys  sound,  diffuses  odors, 
drives  ships,  supports  fire,  gives  rain,  fulfils  besides  one 
knows  not  how  many  other  purposes.  And  God's  word 
is  like  His  work,  is  His  work,  and,  like  creation,  is  inex- 
haustible. Whatever  God  touches,  be  it  a  mighty  sun 
or  an  insect's  wing,  a  vast  prophecy  or  a  little  type.  Ho 
perfects  for  the  place  and  the  purpose  He  has  in  mind. 


What  are  the  distinctive  features  of  a  type?     A 
type,  to  be  such  in  reality,  must  possess  three  well- 
defined   qualities.     (1)    It  must  be   a 

2.  Distinc-    true  picture  of  the  person  or  the  thing 
tive  Fea-        it    represents    or    prefigures.     A    type 
tures  is    a    draft    or   sketch    of    some    Well- 
defined    feature    of    redemption,    and 

therefore  it  must  in  some  distinct  way  resemble;  its 
antitype,  e.g.  Aaron  as  high  priest  is  a  rough  figure 
of  Christ  the  Great  High  Priest,  and  thr  Day  of 
Atonement  in  Israel  (Lev  16)  must  be  a  true  picture 
of  the  atoning  work  of  Christ.  (2)  The  type  must 
be  of  Divine  appointment.  In  its  institution  it.  is 
designed  to  bear  a  likeness  to  the  antitype.  Both 
type  and  antitype  arc  preordained  as  constituent 
parts  of  the  scheme  of  redemption.  As  centuries 
sometimes  lie  between  the  type  and  its  accomplish- 
ment in  the  antitype,  of  course  infinite  wisdom  alone 
can  ordain  the  one  to  be  the  picture  of  the  other. 
Only  God  can  make  types.  (3)  A  type  always  pre- 
figures _something  future.  A  Scriptural  type  and 
predictive  prophecy  are  in  substance  the  same, 
differing  only  in  form.  This  fact  distinguishes 
between  a  symbol  and  a  type.  A  symbol  may 
represent  a  thing  of  the  present  or  of  the  past 
as  well  as  of  the  future,  e.g.  the  symbols  in  the 
Lord's  Supper.  A  type  always  looks  to  the  future; 
an  element  of  prediction  must  necessarily  be  in  it. 

Another  thing  in  the  study  of  types  should  be 

borne  in  mind,  namely,  that  a  thing  in  itself  evil 

cannot  be  the  type  of  what  is  good  and 

3.  Classi-      pure.  _  It  is  somewhat  difficult  to  give 
fication  of      a    satisfactory    classification    of    Bib. 
Types  types,  but  broadly  they  may  be  dis- 
tributed under  three  heads:    (1)  Per- 
sonal types,  by  which  are  meant  those  personages  of 
Scripture    whose    lives    and    experiences    illustrate 
some  principle  or  truth  of  redemption.     Such  are 
Adam,  who  is  expressly  described  as  the  "figure  of 
him  that  was  to  come"  (Rom  5  14),  Melchizedek, 
Abraham,    Aaron,    Joseph,    Jonah,    etc.     (2)    His- 
torical types,  in  which  are  included  the  great  his- 
torical   events    that    under    Providence    became 
striking   foreshadowings   of  good   things   to   come, 
e.g.  the  Deliverance  from  the  Bondage  of  Egypt; 
the  Wilderness  Journey;  the  Conquest  of  Canaan; 
the  Call  of  Abraham;   Deliverances  by  the  Judges, 
etc.    _  (3)    Ritual    types,    such    as    the    Altar,    the 
Offerings,  the  Priesthood,  the  Tabernacle  and  its 
furniture.      There    are    typical     persons,     places, 
times,  things,  actions,  in  the  OT,  and  a  reverent 
study  of  them  leads  into  a  thorough  acquaintance 
with  the  fulness  and  the  blessedness  of  the  word  of 
God. 

How  much  of  the  OT  is  to  be  regarded  as  typical 

is  a  question  not  easily  answered.     Two  extremes, 

however,    should    be    avoided.     First, 

4.  How          the  extravagance  of  some  of  the  early 
Much  of         Fathers,  as  Origen,  Ambrose,  Jerome 
the  OT  Is      (revived  in  our  time  by  Andrew  Jukes 
Typical?        and  his  imitators).     They  sought  for 

types,  and  of  course  found  them,  in 
every  incident  and  event,  however  trivial,  recorded 
in  Scripture.  Even  the  most  simple  and  common- 
place circumstance  was  thought  to  conceal  within 
itself  the  most  recondite  truth.  Mystery  and 
mysticism  were  seen  everywhere,  in  the  cords  and 
pins  of  the  tabernacle,  in  the  yield  of  herds,  in  the 
death  of  one,  in  the  marriage  of  another,  even  in  the 
number  of  fish  caught  by  the  disciples  on  the  night 
the  risen  Saviour  appeared  to  them — how  much 
some  have  tried  to  make  of  that  number,  153! 
The  very  serious  objection  to  this  method  is,  that 
it  wrests  Scripture  out  of  the  sphere  of  the  natural 
and  the  historical  and  locates  it  in  that  of  the  arbi- 
trary and  the  fanciful;  it  tends  to  destroy  the 
validity  and  trustworthiness  of  the  record. 


Tyrannus 
Tyre 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3030 


Second,  the  undue  contract  ion  of  the  typical 
elenient.  Professor  Moses  Stuart  expresses  this 
view  as  follows:  ".Just  so  much  of  the  ( >T  is  to  ho. 
accounted  typical  as  the  NT  affirms  to  he  so,  ami 
no  more."  "This  opinion  assumes  that  Ilin  NT 
writers  have  exhausted  the  types  of  the  OT,  while 
the  fact,  is  that  those;  found  in  the  later  Scripture 
are  but  .samples  taken  from  the  storehouse  where 
many  more  are  found.  If  t  hey  are  not,  1  hen  not  hing 
is  more  arbitrary  than  the  XT  use  of  types,  for 
there  is  nothing  to  distinguish  them  from  a  mul- 
titude of  others  of  the  same  class.  Further,  the 
view  assumes  that  Divine  authority  alone  ran 
determine  the  reality  and  import  of  types— a  view 
that,  applies  with  equal  force  against  prophecy. 
Tliis  rule  may  be  safely  followed:  wherever  the 
three  characteristics  of  types  are  found  which  have 
been  already  mentioned,  there  is  the  type. 


identify  him  with  a  certain  Tyrannus,  a  sophist, 
mentioned  by  Suidas.  Paul  would  thus  appear 
to  be  one  of  the  traveling  rhetors  of  the  time,  who 
had  hired  such  a  hall  to  proclaim  his  own  peculiar 
philosophy  (Ramsay,  Paul  the  Traveller,  246, 
271). 

(2)  Meyer  thinks   that  as  the  apostle  had  not 
passed  wholly  to  the  ('.entiles,  and  Jews  still  flocked 
to  hear  him,  and  also  that  as  Tyrannus  is  not  spoken 
of  as  a  proselyte  (xibtninno*  ton,  Thcon),  t  his  scholc 
is  the  belli  Midhrush  of  a  Jewish  rabbi.  _   "Paul  with 
his  Christians  withdrew  from  the  public,  synagogue 
to  the  private  synagogue  of  Tyrannus,  where  he  and 
his  doctrine  were  more  secure  from  public  annoy- 
ance" (Meyer  in  loc.). 

(3)  Another  view  (Overbeek)  is  that   the  expres- 
sion was  the  standing  name  of  the  place  after  the 
original  owner.  S.  F.  HUNTKH 


Weighty  arc  the  words  of  one  equally  eminent  for  his 
piety  as  for  his  learning:  "That  the  OT  is  rich  in  types, 
or  rather  forms  in  its  totality  one  type,  of  the  NT,  fol- 
lows necessarily  from  the  entirely  unique  position  which 
belongs  to  Christ  as  the  center  of  the  history  of  the  world 
and  of  revelation.  As  we  constantly  see  the  principle 
embodied  in  the  vegetable  and  animal  kingdoms,  that, 
the  higher  species  are  already  typified  in  a  lower  stage 
of  development,  so  do  we  find,  in  the  domain  of  saving 
revelation,  the  highest  not  only  prepared  for.  but  also 
shadowed  forth,  by  that  which  precedes  in  the  lower 
spheres"  (Van  Oost.erzee). 

LITERATURE. — P.  Fairbairn,  Ti/imloyi/  of  Scripture. 
2  vols;  Angus,  The  Bible.  Hand-Book;  Jukes,  Law  <>f 
Offerings  in'  Lee;  Mather,  d'oxprl  of  OT.  Explanation  of 
Types;  Mc.Kwen,  (,'rnce  and  Truth:  Types  and  F  inures 
of  the  OT;  Soltatl,  Tabernacle,  Priesthood  and  Offerings. 

WILLIAM  G.  MOOREHEAD 

TYRANNUS,  ti-ran'us  (Ttipawos,  Turannos): 
When  the  Jews  of  Ephcsus  opposed  Paul's  teaching 
in  the  synagogue,  he  withdrew,  and,  separating  his 
followers,  reasoned  daily  in  the  school  of  Tyrannus. 
"This  continued  for  the  space;  of  two  years"  (Acts 
19  9.10).  D  Syr  (Western  text)  adds  after  Tyran- 
nus (ver  0),  "from  the  f>th  hour  unto  the  10th." 
Hcholt  is  the  lecture-hall  or  teaching-room  of  a 
philosopher  or  orator,  and  such  were  to  he  found 
in  every  Gr  city.  Tyrannus  may  have  been  (1)  a 
Gr  rhetorician  or  (2)  a  Jewish  rabbi. 

(1)  This    is    the    common    opinion,    and    many 


TYRE,  tir  0,2,  "12,  for,  "rock";  Tvpos,  Turos, 
"Tyrus";  modern  Sur):  The  most  noted  of  the 

Phoen  cities,  situated  on  the  coast, 
1.  Physical  hit.  33°  17',  about  20  miles  S.  of  Sidon 
Features  and  about  35  X.  of  Carmel.  The  date 

of  its  foundation  is  uncertain,  but  it 
was  later  than  that  of  Sidon.  It  is  mentioned  in  the 
travels  of  the  Egyp  Mohar,  dating  probably  from 
the  14th  cent.  BC,  and  in  the  Am  Tab  of  about  the 
same  period.  Herodotus  describes  the  temple  of 
Hercules  at  T.  and  says  it  was  built  2,300  years 
before  his  time,  which  would  carry  back  the  begin- 
ning of  the  city  to  more  than  2700  BC.  It  was  a 
double  city,  one  part  on  an  island,  a  short  distance 
from  the  "shore,  and  the  other  on  the  mainland 
opposite.  The  island  city  had  two  harbors,  con- 
nected by  a  canal,  one  looking  N.  and  the  other  8. 
The  island  was  rocky  and  the  city  was  fortified  on 
the  land  side  by  a  wall  150  ft.  high,  the  wall  being 
of  less  elevation  on  the  other  sides.  It  was  an  ex- 
ceedingly strong  position,  and  is  referred  to  in  the 
Bible  as  the  "strong"  or  "fortified"  city  (Josh  19 
29).  The  space  within  the  walls  was  crowded  with 
buildings,  and  is  said  to  have  contained  40,000  in- 
habit ants.  The  town  on  the  mainland  was  sit- 
uated in  a  plain  extending  from  the  Ras  el-'Abyat}, 


3031 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tyrannus 
Tyre 


on  the  S.  to  Sarepta  on  the  N.,  :i  distance  of  about 
20  miles.  It  was  fertile  and  well  watered,  the  river 
Leonte.s  (Litany)  passing  through  it  to  the  sea,  about 
5  miles  N.  of  Tyro,  and  the  copious  fountain  of  Ras 
el-*  A  in,  3  miles  to  the  S.,  furnishing  an  abundant 
supply  both  for  the  city  and  the  gardens. 

(1)  T.   was   for  centuries  subordinate  to   Sidon, 
but  when  the  Philis  subdued  the  latter  city,  prob- 
ably in  the  12th  cent,  (see  SIDON),  Tyre 

2.  History  received  an  accession  of  inhabitants 
from  the  fugitives  which  gave  it  the 
preeminence.  From  this  time  dates  its  great  com- 
mercial and  colonial  activity.  Its  mariners  pushed 
boldly  out  to  the  W.  and  founded  colonies  in  Spain 
and  North  Africa,  some  of  which,  like  Gades,  Ab- 
dera  and  Cartilage,  became  famous.  They  ex- 
tended their  commerce  more  widely  than  Sidon  had 
ever  done  and  ventured  into  the  Atlantic  and 
reached  the  coasts  of  Britain  and  West  Africa. 
They  reached  out  to  the  E.  also,  and  had  their  ships 
in  the  Red  Sea  and  the  Indian  Ocean,  and  their  land 
routes  threaded  all  Western  Asia  (see  PHOENICIA). 
T.,  like  all  the  Phoen  cities,  became  subject  to  Egypt 
under  Thothmes  III  in  the  first  half  of  the  loth 
cent.  BC,  and  remained  so  for  some  300  years,  but 
it  enjoyed  practical  autonomy  under  native  kings, 
being  only  subject  to  tribute  and  to  furnishing 
contingents  of  ships  when  the  Egyp  kings  made 
their  expeditions  to  the  N.  In  the  Am  Tab,  dating 
from  the  first  half  of  the  14th  cent.,  we  find  a  certain 
Abi-melek  (or  Abi-milki)  writing  from  T.  to  the 
king  of  Egypt  asking  for  aid  against  the  Amorite 
leader,  Aziru,  and  the  king  of  Sidon,  who  had  joined 
the  rebels.  The  name  is  Phoen,  and  we  know  that 
it  was  the  policy  of  the  Egyp  kings  to  leave  the 
native  dynasts  on  the  throne. 

(2)  After  the  decline  of  Egypt,  T.  regained  her 
independence    and    exercised    the    hegemony    over 
most  of  the  Phoen  towns,  at  least  as  far  N.  as  Gebal 
(Byblus),  as  appears  in  the  control  that  Hiram  had 
over  the  Lebanon  forests  in  the  time  of  David  and 
Solomon.     Hiram    was    evidently    desirous    of    an 
alliance  with   Israel,   since  he  sent  messengers   to 
David  and  furnished  cedar  and  workmen  to  build 
him  a  house,  apparently  without  solicitation.     The 
friendly  connection  between  the  two  kingdoms  was 
advantageous   to  both,  since  David  and  Solomon 
needed   the   timber  and   the  skilled   artisans   that 
Hiram  could  furnish,  and  Hiram  needed  the  food 
products  of  the  land  of  Israel  (1  K  5).     T.  was  at 
this  time  noted  for  the  skill  of  its  artificers,  and  its 
manufactured   products   were   famous    throughout 
the   world  (see    PHOENICIA,  4).     The   purple   dye 
and  works  in  bronze  were  esp.  famous,  and  Hiram, 
the  Tyrian  artisan,  was  engaged  by  Solomon  to  cast 
the  bronzes  required  for  the  temple  (1  K  7  13  ff). 
Hiram,  the  king,  enlarged  and  beautified  his  capital. 
He  united  the  two  small  islands  on  which  the  city  was 
built  by  filling  up  the  space  between,  where  he  made 
an  open  square  and  built  a  splendid  temple  to  Mel- 
kart  h  and  Astarte.     I  le  engaged  in  commercial  ent  er- 
prises  with  Solomon  (I  K  9  2(3-28;    10  22),  both  in 
pursuance  of  the  friendly  alliance  and  also  for  the  ad- 
vantage of  having  the  use  of  the  port  of  Ezion-geber 
on  the  Red  Sea.     His  brilliant  reign  lasted  43  years. 

(3)  The  list  of  kings  who  succeeded  him  contains 
the  names  of  Baal-azar,  Abd-ashtoreth,  murdered 
by  his  brothers,  the  eldest  of  whom  succeeded  him, 
followed  by  Astartus  and  Ascrymus  murdered  by 
his  brother,  Phelcs,  who  was  overthrown  by  the 
high  priest  Eth-baal,  showing  how  disturbed  the 
period  was.  Eth-baal,  or  Ithobal,  was  the  king 
who  made  an  alliance  with  Ahab  and  gave  him 
Jezebel,  his  daughter,  in  marriage,  which  proved 
most  disastrous  both  to  her  and  the  country  because 
of  the  introduction  of  the  Baal-worship  into  Israel. 
Eth-baal  was  an  energetic  monarch,  and  is  said  to 


have  founded  Bolrys  (Butrun).  He  reigned  32 
years,  and  was  followed  by  Bade/or  and  Mat  tan, 
who  gave  his  daughter,  Elissa  (Dido),  in  marriage  to 
her  uncle  Sicharbas  and  transferred  the  throne  to 
them;  but  they  were  set  aside  by  an  uprising  of  the 
people,  and  Pygmalion,  son  of  Mat  tan,  was  placed 
on  the  throne,  and  Sicharbas  put  to  death.  Elissa 
fled  with  a  party  of  nobles,  by  sea,  to  Africa  and 
founded  the  city  of  Carthage.  This  happened  about 
the  middle  of  1  lie  <M  li  cent .  BC,  Jos  put  t  ing  it  at  8(>0. 

(4)  In  t  he  first  half  of  t  his  cent  ury  T.  became  [sub- 
ject to  Assyria,  and  her  hegemony  in  Phoenicia  came 
to   an   end,   but   her   prosperity   was   not  seriously 
checked  as  we  may  infer  from  Isa  23  8,  which  was 
written  a  century  or  so  later.     Assyria  was  satisfied 
with  the  payment  of  tribute  until  the  lime  of  Tig- 
lath-pileser  JI1  (745-727),  who  laid  a  heavier  hand 
upon  her,  and  this  led  Elulaeus,  king  of  T.,  to  form 
a  confederacy  of  the  Phoen  cities  against  Assyria. 
Shalmaneser  IV  subdued  all  except,  T.,  which  he 
distressed  by   cutting   off   her   water-supply.     But 
the  people  dug  wells  and  obtained  enough  to  sub- 
sist upon  for  five  years,  when  Shalmaneser  was  killed 
and  Elulaeus  recovered  control  of  his  territory.     He 
was  not  molested  by  Sargon,  but  Sennacherib  ad- 
vanced against  him  with  200,000  men,  and  Elulaeus 
fled   to   Cyprus.     The   citizens   made   a   successful 
resistance  and  Sennacherib  did  not  take  T.,  but  it 
submitted  to  Esar-haddon,  and  its  king,  Baal,  ob- 
tained  the  special  favor  of   the   Assyr   king,    who 
made  him  ruler  of  all  the  coast  cities  from  Dor  to 
Gebal,  and  the  Lebanon  was  placed  under  his  con- 
trol (<>SO-(>73  BC).     It  is  rather  surprising  that  Baal 
refused  to  assist  him  in  his  at  tack  upon  Egyptandthat 
Esar-haddon  did  not  punish  him,  probably  because 
he  was  too  much  occupied  with  Egypt .     Ashur-bani- 
pal,  however,  did  compel  him  to  submit  and  to  give 
him  his  daughter,   and   those  of   his  brothers,   as 
secondary  wives,  but  left  him  as  king  of  T. 

(5)  On  the  decline  of  Assyria,  T.  regained  its  independ- 
ence, and  its  greatness  is  indicated  by  the  fact  that   it 
resisted  Nebuchadnezzar  13  years   (598-5S5) ;    it  is  un- 
certain whether  the  island  city  was  taken,   but  it  evi- 
dently came  to  terms  with  the  king  of  Babylon  (cf  E/k 
27  2<>;    Jos,   Ant,  X,  xi,   1  and  sen   Expos    T,  1899,  pp. 
878,  430,  475,  520).     After  this  siege  Sidon  took  the  lead 
and  T.  was  in  a  disturbed  state:    the  monarchy  was  over- 
thrown and  sulTetes,  or  judges,  took  its  place  for  six  years, 
when  the  old  order  was  restored.     The  decline,  of  Babylon 
enabled  T.  to  regain  her  independence  for  a  short  period 
until  its  submission  to  the  Persians  about  525  BC,  and 
thenceforth  it  was  a  vassal  state  during  the  continuance 
of  the  Pers  empire. 

(6)  It  was  by  no  means  hindered  in  its  commercial 
prosperity,  and  its  great  strength  is  seen  in  the  brave  and 
energetic  resistance   it   made   to   Alexander   the   Great. 
All  Phoenicia  submitted  to  him  without  resistance,  and 
T.  was  willing  to  admit  his  suzerainty,  but  declined  to 
receive  him  into  the  city.     This  so  angered   Alexander 
that  he  at  once  commenced  a  siege  that  proved  the  most 
difficult  undertaking  in  all  his  wars.     He  had  no  fleet 
and  was  obliged  to  build  a  mole  from  the  mainland  to  the 
island,  but  before  he  could  finish  it  the  Tynans  destroyed 
it  and  beat  back  their  assailants  with  loss.     Alexander 
had  to  do  the  work  all  over  again,  and  as  ho  was  con- 
vinced that  without  a  fleet  he  would  not  bo  able  to  take 
the  city,  he  procured  ships  from  the  Phoen  towns  that 
had  submitted,  and  with  the  aid  of  these  was  able  to 
blockade  the  port  and  prevent  the  besieged  from  issuing 
forth    to   destroy   the   new   mole.     This   was   at   length 
pushed  up  to  the  very  wall  of  the  city,  which  was  finally 
breached,  and  the  troops  of  Alexander  forced  their  way 
in.     But  even  then  the  defenders  would  not  yield,  and 
the  king  himself  had  to  lead  the  assault  upon  them  with 
his  bodyguard  and  put  them  all  to  the  sword.      Those 
who  died  with  arms  in  their  hands  were  8,000.  and  the 
survivors,  women,  children  and  slaves,  to  the  number  of 
30.000,  were  sold  in  the  open  market.      lie  placed  over 
the  ruined  city,  into  which  he  introduced  some  colonists, 
a  certain  Abd-elonim,  and  left  it  after  having  spent  about 
seven  months  in  subduing  it. 

(7)  After  the  death  of  Alexander,  T.  passed  into 
the  hands  of  Ptolemy  Lagi,  and  when  Antigonus, 
in  314  BC,  took  Phoenicia  from  him,  T.  resisted, 
and  he  had  to  blockade  it  15  months  before  it  would 
yield,  showing  how  quickly  it  had  recovered  from 


Tyre,  Ladder  of 
Unchangeable 


TIIK  IXTFItXATIOXAL  STAXDARI)  BIBLE  EXCYCLOPAEDIA 


3032 


its  previous  disaster.  It  became  a  part  of  the  Se- 
leucid  kingdom  when  Antiochus  III  drove  I  lie 
Ptolemies  from  Syria  (198  BC),  and  the  Seleucid 
kings  regarded  it  of  importance  and  gave  it  the  right 
of  asylum,  and  it  was  allowed  the  status  of  a  free 
city  1)V  the  Romans,  Antony  recognizing  the  inag- 


Coin  of  Tyre. 

istrates  and  council  of  T.  as  allies.  \\'hen  the 
Parthians  attacked  and  took  Syria,  in  40  BC',  T. 
would  not  submit  and  was  left  untouched,  being 
too  strong  for  them.  Augustus  deprived  it  of  its 
freedom,  but-  it  was  given  the  status  of  a  "metropo- 
lis" by  Hadrian,  and  this  title  appears  on  its  coins. 
(S)'T.  is  mentioned  in  the  XT  several  times: 
Christ  visited  its  territory  (Mt  15  21;  Mk  7  24), 
and  people  from  there  came  to  hear  Him  (Lk  6  17). 
Herod  Agrippa  I  had  trouble  with  T.,  and  a  deputa- 
tion came  to  visit  him  at  Caesarea  (Acts  12  20). 
Paul  visited  T.  on  his  journey  from  Asia  to  Jerus 
(Acts  21  3-7). 


Christianity  was  accepted  by  the  people  of  T.,  «o  that 
the  2d  cent.  AD  saw  a  bishopric  established  there,  and 
in  the  4th  a  council  was  held  then;  to  consider  charges 
against  Athanasius,  by  the  party  of  Arius;  IK;  was  con- 
demned, a  decision  which  brought  the  Tyrian  church 
into  disrepute.  T.  was  already  obnoxious  to  Christians 
because  the  anti-Christian  philosopher  Porphyry  was 
from  there.  Tyre  continued  a  commercial  center,  and 
Jerome  says  that  it  was  the  noblest  and  most  beautiful 
of  the  Phoen  cities  and  an  emporium  of  commerce  for 
almost  the  whole  world  (('<>mm.  <m  Ezk}.  It  was  of 
considerable  importance  in  the  Crusades  and  continued 
so  until  toward  the  cud  of  the  Kith  cent.,  when  its  trade 
declined,  and  it  has  now  dwindled  to  a  town  of  some 
5,000  inhabitants.  For  "literature"  see  PHOENICIA. 

II.  PORTER 

TYRE,  LADDER  OF  (K\ip.aKOs  Tvpov,  kl'nnnkns 
Tiirou):  (liven  in  1  Mace  11  "><)  as  the  northern 
limit  of  the  territory  placed  under  the  authority  of 
Simon  Thassi  the  Maccabee  by  Antiochus  \I 
(Theos),  in  the  year  143  BC.  The  statement  of 
Jos  (#./,  II,  x,  2)  that  it  was  100  furlongs  X.  of 
Ptolemais,  and  a  similar  indication  of  position  in 
the  Jer  Talm  (Ah  Znr  1  V)  lead  us  to  identify  it, 
with  Ras-en-Nakurah  and  not  with  Rax-cl-' Alnjnd 
(I'rntnoiitnrunti  Album  of  Pliny),  as  has  been  done. 
Here  the  rugged  hills  of  I'pper  Galilee  descend  in 
bold  precipices,  to  the  sea  and  leave  no  beach  be- 
tween. A  natural  barrier  is  thus  formed  which  pre- 
vented the  histories  of  Israel  and  Tyre  from  ever 
touching  one  another  except  in  peaceful  relations. 

W.   M.  CHRISTIE 
TYROP(EON,  tl-ro-pe'on,  THE.    See  JERUSALEM. 

TYRUS,  tl'rus.     See  TVHE. 
TZADDI,  tza-de'.     See  CADHE. 


u 


UCAL,  fi'kal  (bp^5  ,  'nkhdl  [see  below]):  This  name 
occurs  along  with  that  of  Ithiel  (Prov  30  1),  both 
being  taken  by  older  interpreters  as  those  of  an- 
cient sages.  Some  have  suggested  (see  Toy,  Prov, 
51<)  f)  that  Teal  might  be  the  "Calcol"  of  1  K  4  31 
(Heb  5  11).  Ucal  was  also  explained  as  "I  can," 
i.e.  "I  can  maintain  my  obedience  to  God,"  just 
as  Ithiel  was  taken  to  be  "signs  of  God."  LXX, 
Aq,  Theodotion  do  not  take  the  words  as  proper 
names,  and  so  BDtt  with  others  point  this  word  as 
a  vb.,  "[and]  I  am  consumed"  P?^  ,  ivackJiti,  for 
bp^"1  ,  wr'ukhdl).  The  last  three  words  of  the  verse 
are  then  tr(1  "1  have  wearied  myself,  O  God,  I  have 
wearied  myself,  O  God,  and  am  consumed."  See 
ITHIEL.  DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 


UEL,  u'el  (bSWB,  'fi'eZ,  "will  of  God"):  One  of 
the  sons  of  Bani  who  had  taken  foreign  wives  (E/r 
10  34).  The  name  in  1  Esd  9  35  is  "Juel"  (B, 
•<M\,  Outl,  A,  'loin^A,  lontl). 

UKNAZ,  nk'naz  (T^  ,  it.krrtaz,  "and  Kenaz," 
probably):  Found  in  AVm  of  1  Ch  4  15  for  AV 
"even  Kenaz,"  RV  "and  Kenaz,"  whereas  LXX 
omits  "and."  It  is  probable  that  some  name  has 
dropped  out  after  Elah.  Curtis  suggests  reading 
"and  these  are  the  sons  of  Kenaz,"  i.e.  those  men- 
tioned in  vs  13  f.  See  KENAZ. 

ULAI,    u'll,    ii'la-I    pbTO  bniS,    'ubhal    'ulay, 
"river  Ulai";   Theod.  Dnl  8  2,  Ov$aX,()nbdl;  LXX 
and  Theod.   in  ver    10,   OvXat,  Oulai; 
1.  The  Lat    E  nine  us):      A    river    which,    run- 

Name  and     ning   through  the   province   of   Elam, 
Its  Forms      flowed   through  Shushan  or  Susa.     It 
was  from   "between"    this  river   that 
Daniel  (8  16)    heard  a  voice,   coming  apparently 


from    the    waters    which    flowed    between    its    two 
banks. 

Xot withstanding   that    the  rivers  of  Elam   have 

often  changed  their  courses,  there  is  but  lit  tie  doubt 

that   the  Tlai  is  the  Kerkhah,  which, 

2.  Present     rising  in  the  Pers  plain  near  Xeluivend 
Names  and    (there  called   the   Gamas-Ab),   is  even 
Course  there   a    great    river.     Turned   by    the 

mountains,  it  runs  X.\V.  as  far  as 
Bisutun,  receiving  all  the  waters  of  Southern 
Kurdistan,  where,  as  the  Sc'in  Mcrrc,  it  passes 
through  the  inaccessible'  defiles  of  Luristan,  its 
course  before  reaching  the  Kehir-Kxfi  being  a  suc- 
cession of  rapids.  Turned  aside  by  this  mountain, 
it  follows  for  about  95  miles  the  depression  which 
here  exists  as  far  as  the  foothills  of  Luristan,  reach- 
ing the  Susian  plain  as  a  torrent;  but  it  becomes 
less  rapid  before  losing  itself  in  the  marshes  of 
Hauizeh.  The  course  of  the  stream  is  said  to  be 
still  doubtful  in  places. 

In  ancient  times  it  flowed  at  the  foot  of  the  citadel 
of  Susa,  but  its  bed  is  now  about  1 J-  miles  to  the  W. 

The    date    of    this    change    of    course 

3.  Changed   (during  which  a  portion  of  the  ruins  of 
Bed  at  Susa  Susa  was  carried  away)   is  uncertain, 

but  it  must  have  been  later  than  the 
time  of  Alexander  the  Great.  The  stream's  greatest, 
volume  follows  the  melting  of  the  snows  in  the 
mountains,  and  floods  ensue  if  this  coincides  with 
the  advent  of  heavy  rain.  Most  to  be  dreaded  are 
the  rare  occasions  when  it  unites  with  the  Ab-e-Diz. 
The  Ulai  (Assyr  Ulda  or  Uldia)  near  Susa  is 
regarded  as  being  shown  on  the  sculptures  of  the 

Assyr  king  Ashur-bani-pal  (Brit.  Mus., 

4.  Assyrian    Nineveh    Gal.)    illustrating    his    cam- 
References    paign   against   Te-umrnan.     Its   rapid 

stream  bears  away  the  bodies  of  men 
and  horses,  with  chariots,  bows  and  quivers.  The 


3033 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBI.K  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Tyre,  Ladder  of 
Unchangeable 


bodies  which  were  thrown  into  the  stream  hindered 
its  course,  and  dyed  its  waters  with  their  blood. 

LITF.R  \TUHE.  —  See  Delegation  en  I'erne:  Memoires, 
I,  Iterhrrrhes  Archeologiques,  25  fT. 

T.  G.  PINCHES 

ULAM,  ii'lam   (-'^  ,  Tilum,  "preceding"): 
(1)   A  "son"  of  P(>reslr,    a  Manassite  elan  (1   Ch 
7   1(5.17).     Luc.  reads  'HXa/x,  Eldm. 

(2;  A  descendant  of  Benjamin  who  had  sons, 
"mighty  men  of  valor"  (1  Ch  8  39.10).  LXX  B 
has  Ai'Xd/ix.  A/lain,  in  ver  39,  AiXeLp,  Ailcim  in  ver 
40;  A,  Ov\dn,  Ouldm,  in  bolh,  and  so  Luc. 

ULLA,  ul'a  (X5?  ,  ''///«',  meaning  unknown): 
An  Asherite  (1  Ch  '?  39;. 


UMMAH,  nm'a  (rffi?  ,  *nmnmh;  'APX6(3,  ,l,rW/>, 
'Afijid,  ,lwwa):  One;  of  the  cities  allotted  to  the 
tribe  of  Asher  (Josh  19  30;.  By  a  slight  emenda- 
tion of  the  text,  it  would  read  Acco,  the  name  of  the 
place  subsequently  known  as  Ptolemais,  the  modern 
M/.-Avf.  This  emendation  is  generally  adopted  by 
scholars,  although  it  is  at  best  a  conjecture.  No 
other  identification  is  yet  possible. 

UMPIRE,  um'pir.     See  DAYSMAN. 

UNBELIEF,  un-be-lef:  The  word  (AV)  repre- 
sents two  Gr  words,  airelOeia.,  apcitheia,  "disobe- 
dience" (only  in  Rom  11  30.32;  He  4  6.11),  and 
curta-Tia,  npistid,  ''distrust,"  the  antithesis  to  "fa.it  h" 
(q.v.).  The  two  words  are  not  only  akin  etymo- 
logic-airy but  run  into  one  another  by  mental  con- 
nection, certainly  where  spiritual  relations  are  con- 
cerned, as  between  man  and  God.  For  when  God 
has  spoken,  in  precept  and  yet  more  in  promise, 
distrust  involves,  at  least  potentially,  an  element  of 
disobedience.  His  supreme  claim  is  to  be  tnixti-d 
to  command  only  what  is  right,  and  to  promise 
only  what  is  true.  He  is  infinitely  sympathetic  in 
His  insight,  and  infallibly  knows  where  distrust 
comes  only  of  the  dim  perceptions  and  weak  mis- 
givings of  our  mortal  nature,  and  where,  on  the 
other  hand,  a  moral  resistance  lies  at  the  back  of 
the  non-confidence.  But  the  presence  of  that 
darker  element  is  always  to  be  suspected,  at  least, 
and  searched  for  in  serious  self-examination. 

We  may  remark  that  it  is  a  loss  in  our  language 
that  "unbelief"  is  the  only  word  we  can  use  as  the 
antithesis  to  "faith";  for  "faith"  and  "belief" 
(q.v.)  are  not  exactly  synonyms.  "Unfaith"  would 
be  a  welcome  word  for  such  use,  if  it  were  generally 
so  understood.  HANDLEY  DUNELM 

UNBELIEVER,  un-be-lev'er:  _  This  word  fol- 
lows closely  the  lines  of  "unbelief"  (q.v.)  in  its 
relation  to  originals.  Once  only  (Acts  14  2)  it  rep- 
resents the  participle  aireidovvTes,  apeithountes,  "dis- 
obeying [ones]."  Elsewhere  (nine  cases)  it  represents 
S.TTLO-TOS,  djristos,  "faithless,"  "without  faith."  In  six 
of  these  passages  (all  in  1  and  2  Cor)  it  denotes 
the  unconverted  pagan  as  distinguished  from  the 
convert.  In  the  other  passages  (Lk  12  46;  Tit 
1  1">;  Rev  21  8)  the  reference  is  to  the  unbelief 
which  comes  of  moral  resistance  to  God. 

UNCERTAIN,  un-sur'tin,  UNCERTAINTY,  un- 
pur'tin-ti:  Adj.  &5ij\o^  wlclox,  2  Mace  7  34;  1 
Cor  14  <S;  advb.  ntlfios,  1  Cor  9  26;  noun  adelotes, 
1  Tim  6  17;  adclos  means  "not  clear,"  and  so 
"uncertain."  Also  AV  Wisd  9  14  for  ^Tno-^aXT??, 
vx,  "unsteady,"  RV  "prone  to  fall." 


UNCHANGEABLE,  un-chanj'a-b'l,  UNCHANGE- 
ABLE NESS,  un-chanj'a-b'1-nes  : 

I.     U.VCHANGEABLENESS  OF  GOD  A  TRUTH  OF  NATURAL 
THEOLOGY 


II.        SclilF'TCItAL    DOCTKINF,    OF    TIIK     l"N(  HAM. 

OF  COD 

1.    N'ot  Lifeless  Immobility 

'2.   As  Contrasted  with  the  Finite 

.'{.    Cod's  Knowledge,   Will  and  Purpose 

4.  In  His  Relation  to  the  World 

5.  His  Relations  to  .Men 
LITERATURE 

The  unchangeableness  or  immutability  of  God  is 
that  Divine  attribute  which  expresses  the  truth  that 
in  His  nature;  and  perfections,  in  His  knowledge, 
will  and  purpose,  He  always  remains  the  same  in 
the  fulness  of  His  infinite  and  perfect  Being;  infi- 
nitely exalted  above  change,  becoming  arid  develop- 
ment, which  are  the  specific  characteristics  of  all 
finite  existence.  This  is  one  of  what  theologians 
have  called  the  incommunicable  attributes  of  God, 
that  is,  OIK;  of  those  specific  characteristics  of  the 
Divine  nature  which  make  God  to  be  God  in  dis- 
tinction from  all  that  is  finite.  These  attributes 
have  also  been  called  negative;  attributes.  By 
calling  them  negative,  however,  it  is  not  meant  that 
they  express  the  nature  of  God  in  so  far  as  He  is 
unknowable  and  incomprehensible  by  the  finite 
mind,  while  the  positive  attributes,  such  as  love 
and  righteousness,  express  God's  nature  as  revealed 
and  known.  Both  kinds  of  attributes  can  be  known 
only  in  so  far  as  God  reveals  Himself,  and  further- 
more the  so-called  negative  attributes  involve  a 
positive  idea,  while  the  positive  ones  in  turn  imply 
the  negation  of  all  finite  limitations.  Moreover, 
since  the  finite  mind  cannot  comprehend  the  infinite 
God,  back  of  all  that  God  has  revealed  of  Himself, 
back  even  of  His  absoluteness,  eternity  and  tin- 
changeability,  lies  the  fulness  of  His  infinite  Being, 
unsearchable,  unknowable,  and  incomprehensible 
alike  in  His  nature  and  attributes  (Ps  145  3;  147 
5;  Job  11  7-9;  Isa  40  28). 

It  is  these  incommunicable  attributes,  including 
unchangeableness,  which  make  God  to  be  God,  and 
mark  the  specific  difference  between  Him  and  all 
finite  existence.  Unchangeableness  is,  therefore,  the 
characteristic  of  God's  entire  nature  and  of  all 
His  attributes.  It  cannot  be  limited  to  His  ethical 
nature  or  to  His  love,  and,  while  it  is  true  that 
these  incommunicable  attributes  are  revealed  with 
especial  richness  in  God's  saving  activity,  they 
cannot  be  limited  to  marks  of  God's  saving  action 
or  purpose.  It  is  true  that  God  is  unchangeable 
in  His  love  and  grace  and  power  to  save,  but  that  is 
only  because  it  is  the  love  and  grace  and  power  of 
the  absolute1,  infinite  and  immutable  God. 

/.  Unchangeableness  of  God  a  Truth  of  Natu- 
ral Theology. — As  the  One  infinitely  perfect  and 
absolute  or  self-existent  Being,  God  is  exalted  far 
above  the  possibility  of  change,  because  He  is  inde- 
pendent ,  self-existent  and  unlimited  by  all  the  causes 
of  change.  As  uncaused  and  self-existent,  God  can- 
not be  changed  from  without;  as  infinitely  perfect, 
He  cannot  suffer  change  from  within;  and  as  eternal 
and  independent  of  time,  which  is  the  "form"  of 
change  and  mutability,  He  cannot  be  subject  to 
any  change  at  all.  God's  unchangeableness,  there- 
fore, follows  from  His  self-existence  and  eternity. 

//.  Scripture  Doctrine  of  the  Unchangeableness 
of  God. — The  Scripture  doctrine  of  God  reaffirms 
this  truth.  It  conceives  of  God  as  a  living  Person 
in  relation  to  the  world  and  man,  and  at  the  same 
time  as  absolutely  unlimited  by  the  world  and  man, 
and  as  absolutely  unchangeable.  The  God  who 
has  revealed  Himself  in  the  OT  and  the  XT  is  never 
identified  with,  or  merged  in,  the  processes  of  Na- 
ture. He  is  complete  and  perfect  in  Himself,  and  is 
not  the  result  of  any  process  of  self-realization.  He 
is  so  great  that  His  relations  to  the  created  universe 
cannot  begin  to  exhaust  His  Being,  and  yet  He 
stands  in  the  closest  relations  to  man  and  the  world 
as  Creator,  Preserver,  Governor,  and  Saviour. 


Unchangeable 
Uncleanness 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3034 


On  the  one  hand,  then,  the  Bible  never  represents 
the  unchangeableness  of  Clod  as  a  dead  immobility 
out  of  all  relation  to  man  and  the 
1.  Not  world.  This  tendency  of  thought, 

Lifeless  Im-  fearing  anthropomorphism,  proceeds 
mobility  on  the  principle  that  to  make  any  defi- 
nite predications  about  God  is  to  limit 
Him.  The  logical  result  of  this  is  to  conceive  of 
( !od  as  abstract  Being  or  Substance,  so  that  the  word 
'•(lod"  becomes  only  a  name  for  the  Unknowable. 
Over  against  this  error,  the  Scripture  represents 
( Jod  concretely  as  a  Person  in  relation  to  the  world 
and  man.  In  the  beginning  He  created  the  heavens 
and  the  earth,  and  from  that  time  on  He  is  the  life 
of  the  world,  esp.  of  Israel,  His  chosen  people.  To 
bring  out  this  truth  anthropomorphisms  are  em- 
ployed, (lod  comes  and  goes,  reveals  Himself  and 
hides  Himself.  He  repents  (Gen  6  (>;  1  S  15  1 1  ; 
Am  7  3;  Joel  2  13);  He  becomes  angry  (Nu 
11  1;  Ps  106  10);  and  lays  aside  His  anger  (Dt 
13  17;  II os  14  4).  He  sustains  a  different  relation 
to  the  godly  and  the  wicked  (Prov  11  20;  12  22  i. 
In  the  fulness  of  time  He  became  incarnate  through 
the  Son,  and  He  dwells  in  His  people  by  His  Spirit, 
their  experience  of  His  grace  being  greater  at  some 
times  t  han  at  others. 

Hut  on  the  other  hand,  the  Scripture  always 
asserts  in  unmistakable  terms  the  unchangeableness 
of  God.  He  is  unchangeable  in  His  nature.  Al- 
though the  name  '/','/  Xlnulthii/,  by  which  He  made 
Himself  known  in  the  patriarchal  period  of  revela- 
tion, denotes  esp.  (lod's  power,  this  name  by  no 
means  exhausts  t  he  revelation  of  God  in  that  period. 
His  unchangeableness  is  involved  in  His  eternity  as 
made  known  to  Abraham  (Gen  21  33).  This 
attribute  finds  its  clearest  expression  in  the  name 
''Jehovah"  as  revealed  to  Moses,  1  he  significance  of 
which  is  unfolded  in  the  passage  Ex  3  13-15.  God 
here  reveals  Himself  to  His  people  as  "I  AM  THAT 
I  AM,"  using  the.  future  tense  of  the  vb.  "to  be," 
which,  as  the  context  shows,  is  given  as  the  meaning 
of  the  name  ''Jehovah."  Some  recent  writers  would 
derive  these,  words  from  the  Hiphil  stem  of  the  vb., 
and  affirm  that  it  signifies  that  God  is  the  giver  of 
life.  The  vb.,  however,  is  in  the  Kal  stem,  the 
tense  denoting  the  changeless  continuity  of  the  life 
and  nature  of  God.  The  idea  expressed  is  not 
merely  that  of  self-existence,  but  also  of  unchange- 
ableness, and  this  unchangeableness,  as  the  context 
clearly  indicates  (esp.  ver  15),  is  here  set  forth  not 
simply  as  belonging  to  the  nature  of  (Jod  in  Himself, 
but  is  brought  into  closest  connection  with  His 
covenant,  relation  to  His  people,  so  that  the  reli- 
gious value  of  God's  unchangeableness  is  most  clearly 
implied  in  this  fundamental  assertion  of  the  attri- 
bute. The  same  idea  of  God's  immutability  is 
reaffirmed  in  the  prophecy  of  Isaiah.  It  is  con- 
nected with  the  name  Jeh  (Isa  41  4;  cf  also  48  12), 
where  Jeh  affirms  that  He  is  the  first  and,  with  the 
last,  the  same  God,  thereby  asserting  not  merely 
His  eternity,  but  also  that  He  is  the  same  in  His 
Divine  existence  throughout  all  ages.  This  attri- 
bute, moreover,  is  claimed  by  Jeh,  and  set  forth  as 
an  especial  mark  of  His  Godhead  in  Isa  44  6.  The 
unchangeableness  of  the  Divine  nature  is  also  as- 
serted by  the  prophet  Malachi  in  a  difficult  passage 
(3  6).  This  is  a  clear  affirmation  of  the  unchange- 
ableness of  God,  the  only  question  being  whether  it 
is  set  forth  as  the  ground  of  Israel's  confidence,  or 
in  contrast  with  their  fickleness,  a  question  which 
depends  partly  on  that  of  the  text. 

In  the  NT  the  thought  of  the  passage  in  Ex  3  is 
reiterated  in  the  Apocalypse  where  God  is  described 
as  He  who  is  and  was  and  is  to  come  (Rev  1  4). 
This  is  an  expansion  of  the  covenant  name  "Jehovah" 
in  Ex  3  13-15,  denoting  not  merely  eternity  but  also 
immutability.  The  phrases  "the  Alpha  and  the 


Omega"  (Rev  1  S;  21  (i;  22  13);  and  "the  first 
and  the  last"  (1  17;  22  13);  and  "the  beginning 
and  the  end"  (21  6;  22  13)  bring  out  the  same 
idea,  and  are  applied  to  Christ  as  well  as  .to  God, 
which  is  a  clear  indication  of  Our  Lord's  Deity. 
The  a  post  le  Paul  likewise  asserts  the  incorrupt  ibilit  y , 
eternity  and  immortality  of  the  Divine  nature,  all 
of  which  ideas  imply  the  unchangeableness  of  God 
(Rom  1  23;  1  Tim  1  17;  6  1(5). 

Not  only   is   the  unchangeableness   of   God's   nature 
asserted  in  Scripture,  and  placed  in  relation  to  His  deal- 
ings with  men,  hut  also  it  is  declared  to  he 

2.  As  Con-     'he     distinctive    characteristic    of     Clod's 

.1,  nature  as  contrasted  with  the  entire  uni- 
trastea  wun  V(,rs(,  of  finit(,  )M,inK.  While  the  heavens 
the  Finite  and  the  earth  change  and  are  passing 
away,  Clod  endures  forever  and  forever  tin; 
same  God  (Ps  102  2H-2X  [Heb  27-2!)]).  The  applica- 
tion of  the  language  of  this  psalm  to  Christ  by  the  author 
of  the  Kp.  to  the  He  (1  10-12)  involves  the  unchangp- 
ableness  of  Christ,  which  is  again  explicitly  asserted  in 
this  Kp.  (13  S),  being  another  clear  indication  of  the 
way  in  which  the  Deity  of  .Jesus  Christ  pervades  the  NT. 
This  idea  of  Clod's  immutability,  as  contrasted  with  the 
mutability  of  finite  existence,  which  is  His  creation,  is 
given  expression  in  the  XT  by  the  apostle  .James.  As 
Creator  of  the  heavenly  bodies,  God  is  called  the  Father 
of  lights.  While  their  lights,  however,  are  intermittent, 
God's  light  is  subject  to  neither  change  nor  obscuration 
(1  17). 

In  accordance  with  this  idea  of  the  unchangeableness 
of  Clod's  nature,  the  Scripture,  in  ascribing  life  and  per- 
sonality to  Him,  never  regards  Clod  as  subject  to  any 
process  of  becoming  or  self-realization,  and  the  views 
which  so  conceive  of  Clod  are  unseriptural  whether  they 
proceed  upon  a  Unitarian  or  a  trinitarian  basis. 

God  is  also  represented  in  Scripture  as  unchange- 
able in  His  knowledge,  will  and  purpose.     He  is  not 
a  man  that  He  should  repent,  (1  S  15 

3.  God's         20).     His  purposes,  therefore,  are  un- 
Knowledge,  changeable  (Nu  23  10;  Isa  46  11;  Prov 
Will  and        19  21);  and  His  decrees  are  accordingly 
Purpose          likened  to  "mountains  of  brass"   (Zee; 

6  1).  His  righteousness  is  as  immut- 
able as  mountains  (Ts  36  (i  [Heb  7J);  and  His  power 
also  is  unchangeable  (Isa  26  4).  Hence,  while  the 
Scripture  represents  God  as  sustaining  living  rela- 
tions to  His  creatures,  it  does  not  conceive  of  Him 
;;s  conditioned  or  determined  in  any  way  by  men's 
acts,  in  either  His  knowledge,  will,  purpose  or  power. 
God  knows  eternally  the  changing  course  of  events, 
and  He  acts  differently  upon  different  occasions, 
but  all  events,  including  human  actions,  are  deter- 
mined by  God's  unchangeable  purpose,  so  that  ( Jod's 
knowledge  and  actions  are  not  contingent  upon  any- 
thing outside  Himself. 

Although,  therefore,  the  idea  of  God  as  pure 
abstract  Being,  out  of  all  relation  to  the  world,  is 
unscriptural,  it  is  no  less  true  that  that  conception 
of  God  which  represents  a  reaction  from  this,  and 
which  conceives  of  God  anthropomorphically  and 
as  conditioned  and  determined  by  the  world  and 
man,  is  also  quite  contradictory  to  the  Scripture 
conception  of  God.  This  latter  tendency  goes  too 
far  in  the  opposite  direction,  and  falls  into  the  error 
of  conceiving  God's  knowledge,  will,  purpose  and 
power  too  anthropomorphically,  and  as  limited  by 
the  free  acts  of  man.  While  the  opposite  tendency 
kept  God  out  of  all  relation  to  the  world,  this  one 
erects  God's  relation  to  the  world  into  something 
which  limits  Him.  This  way  of  conceiving  of  God, 
which  is  the  error  of  Rationalism,  Socinianism  and 
Arminianism,  is  as  unscriptural  as  that  which  con- 
ceives of  God  as  abstract  Being,  unknowable,  and 
entirely  out  of  relation  to  the  world. 

Unchangeable  in  His  nature  and  attributes,  God 

is   likewise    unchangeable    in    His   relation    to    the 

world,    which    relation    the    Scripture 

4.  In  His       represents  as  creation  and  providence, 
Relation  to    and  not  as  emanation.     Hence  while 
the  World      everything  finite  changes,  God  remains 

ever  the  same  (Ps  102  26-28).  Con- 
sequently the  pantheistic  idea  is  also  unscriptural, 


3035 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Unchangeable 
Uncleanness 


which  idea,  going  farther  than  the  anthropomorphic 
;uid  dualistic  conception  which  places  the  world 
over  against.  Clod,  completely  merges  (iod's  Being 
in  the  world  and  its  processes  of  change,  affirming 
that  God  comes  to  self-realization  in  the  evolution 
of  the  world  and  man.  In  its  reaction  from  the 
denial  of  Clod's  living  relation  to  the  world,  this 
view  does  not  stop  with  limiting  (rod  by  reason  of 
this  relation,  hut.  merges  Him  completely  in  the 
world-development.  The  Scripture,  on  the  con- 
trary, always  conceives  of  (lod  as  immutably  free 
and  sovereign  in  His  relation  to  all  the  creation. 

In  accordance  with  this  idea  of  the  unchange- 
ahleness  of  Clod's  nature  and  attributes,  the  Bible 
always  maintains  (Iod's  absoluteness  and  tran- 
scendence of  Nature  and  her  processes  in  all  of  the 
relations  which  Ho  sustains  to  the  finite  universe. 
It,  came  into  being  by  His  creative  fiat,  not  by  any 
process  of  emanation  from  His  Being.  He  sustains 
it  in  existence,  and  governs  it,  not  by  any  process  of 
self-realization  in  the  series  of  second  causes,  but, 
from  without,  by  His  sovereign  will  and  power. 
And  lie  intrudes  into  the  series  of  finite  causes 
miraculously,  producing  events  in  Nature  which 
are  due  solely  to  His  power.  When  for  man's  sal- 
vation the  Son  of  (lod  became  incarnate,  it  was  not 
by  any  change  of  His  nature  in  laying  aside  some  or 
all  of  the  attributes  of  Deity,  but  by  assuming  a 
human  nature;  into  personal  union  with  the  Divine 
nature.  The  Scripture  passages  which  speak  of 
the  incarnation  of  Our  Lord  clearly  indicate  that 
the  Son  retained  1 1  is  full  Deity  in  "becoming  flesh" 
(cf  esp.  the  prologue  to  John's  Gospel  and  Phil  2 
(5-8).  Moreover,  the  OT  doctrine  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  as  the  source  of  life  to  the  world  is  always  at 
pains  to  avoid  any  mingling  of  the  Spirit  with  the 
processes  of  Nature,  and  the  same  thing  is  true  of 
the  NT  doctrine  of  the  indwelling  of  the  Spirit  in 
the  believer,  always  keeping  the  Spirit  distinct 
from  the  spirit  of  man  (Rom  8  1(5). 

Finally,  (lod  is  unchangeable  not  only  in  relation 
to  the  universe,  but  in  His  relations  to  men  and  esp. 

<o  His  people.  This  follows  from  His 
5.  His  unchangeable  ethical  nature.  The 

Relations  Scripture  often  connects  the  unchange- 
to  Men  ableness  of  God  with  His  goodness 

(Ps  100  5;  Jas  1  17);  with  His 
truthfulness  and  mercy  (Ps  100  5;  117  2);  and 
with  His  covenant  promises  (Kx  3  13  ff).  In 
connection  with  His  covenant  promises,  God's  un- 
changeableness  gives  the  idea  of  His  faithfulness 
which  is  emphasized  in  the  OT  to  awaken  trust  in 
God  (Dt  7  <»;  Ps  36  5  [Hob  G];  Ps  92  2  [Hob  3]; 
Isa  ll  5;  Lam  3  23).  This  idea  of  God's  un- 
changeableness  in  His  covenant  promises  or  His 
faithfulness  is  repeated  and  emphasized  in  the  NT. 
His  gifts  or  graces  and  election  are  without  repent- 
ance (1  Thess  5  24;  Rom  11  29);  He  is  faithful 
toward  men  because;  unchangeably  true;  to  His  own 
nature  (2  Tim  2  13);  His  faithfulness  abides  in 
spite  of  men's  lack  of  faith  (Rom  3  5),  and  is  in 
many  places  represented  as  the  basis  of  our  confi- 
dence in  God  who  is  true  to  His  election  and  gracious 
promises  (1  Cor  1  <);  10  13;  2  Thess  3  3;  He 
10  23;  11  11;  1  Pet,  4  19;  1  Jn  19).  See 
FAITHFULNESS.  It  is  thus  the  religious  significance 
and  value  of  God's  unchangeableness  which  is  esp. 
emphasized  throughout  the  Scripture.  Because  He 
is  unchangeably  true  to  His  promises,  He  is  the 
secure  object  of  religious  faith  and  trust,  upon  whom 
alone  we  can  rely  in  the  midst  of  human  change  and 
decay.  It  is  this  idea  to  which  expression  is  given 
by  calling  God  a  rock,  the  rock  of  our  strength  and 
of  our  salvation  (Dt  32  15;  Ps  18  2  [Heb  3]; 
42  9  [Ileb  10];  71  3;  Isa  17  10).  God  is  even 
eternally  a  rock,  the  never-failing  object  of  confi- 
dence and  trust  (Isa  26  4). 


It  appears,  therefore,  that  the  Script  lire  idea  of 
the  unchangeableness  of  God  lavs  emphasis  upon 
four  points.  First,  it  is  not  lifeless  immobility, 
but  the  unchangeableness  of  a  living  Person. 
Second,  it  is,  however,  a  real  unchangeableness  of 
God's  nature,  attributes  and  purpose.  Third,  this 
unchangeableness  is  set,  forth  as  one  of  (lie  specific 
characteristics  of  Deity  in  distinction  from  all  that 
is  finite'.  Fourth,  (Iod's  unchangeableness  is  not 
dealt  witli  in  an  abstract  or  merely  theoretic  man- 
ner, but.  its  religious  value  is  invariably  emphasized 
as  constituting  God  the  one  true  object  of  religious 
faith. 

LITERATURE. — Resides  the:  comnis.  on  appropriate 
passages,  and  the  discussion  of  the  Divine  attributes 
in  the  general  works  on  systematic  theolo^v,  sec  Dili- 
maim,  Handbuch  drr  alttrxt.  Th<><,L,  1S95,  215-20,  243- 
44;  Oehler,  Tin-,, 1.  ,,f  th<-  OT,  KT.  18s:i,  95,  100;  Schultz, 
Alttcxt.  Ttu-»l.,  1S90,  410;  Davidson,  The  Tkcol.  of  the 
OT,  1904,  45-5S,  1(15.  Kor  a  fuller  discussion  see  Char- 
nock,  "The  Immutability  of  (Joel,"  Workx,  vol  I,  374- 
419;  Dorner,  (Y/irr  die  rirlitii/f  Faasuna  des  <t<i<j mutinrkett 
lii'i/riffa  drr  UnverSnderlichkeit  (jottcx,  u.n.w.;  Article  I, 
"  Die  noueren  Laugnungen  der  Unveriinderlichkeit  de:s 
personlichen  Gottes,  u.s. w.,"  .IDT,  I,  201-77;  II,  "Die 
(J-i-schichte  eler  Lehre  von  ele>r  I'live'runderlichkeit  Ge)ttes 
his  auf  Schleiermacher,"  JDT,  II,  440  500;  III,  "  Dog- 
matisclu:  Kmrtcrung  eler  Le'hre:  vem  eler  Unve'ranele'r- 
lichkeit  Gottes,"  JDT,  III,  579-(i(i();  II.  CYe'iner,  l>i<- 
clirixtliche.  Lrlire  run  den  Ki,/, 'nxclmfti  n  (luttr.i,  1S97,  pub. 
in  the  Britnif/e  zur  Fordrrumj  chrixtliclmr  ThvoL,  I,  7-111; 
se'e:  pp.  10  IF,  ami  esp.  pp.  102-9. 

CASPAR  WISTAU  Hone;io 

UNCHASTITY,un-chas'ti-ti.     See-CimiKs;  Pr\- 

ISHMENTS. 

UNCIRCUMCISED,  un-sur'kum-slzd,  UNCIR- 
CUMCISION,  un-sur-kum-sizh'un:  The  adj.  in 
the  OT  is  '"IS?,  <c7/-c7  (Gen  17  14,  etc),  from  a  root 
of  uncertain  meaning,  with  the  noun  JIT"]^ ,  lorluh, 
"uncircumcised  [person]"  (Lev  19  23;  Jer  9  25), 
and  the  vb.  b^ ,  *di:al,  "count  as  uncircumcised" 
(Lev  19  23;  RV  Hab  2  Hi).  In  Ape>e  and  the 
NT  the  noun  is  dxpo/Suo-T/a,  akrobustia  (a  physio- 
logical term,  1  Alae'C  1  15;  Acts  11  3,  etc),  and 
the  adj.  dTreptr^ros,  apmtmctos  (Ad  Est  14  15; 
1  Mace  1  48;  2  46;  Acts  7  51),  with  the  vb. 
<?7rt<r7rdo,ucu,  (_'pi:i[>domni,  "become  uncircumcised" 
(1  Cor  7  18).  The  language  of  1  Mace  1  15  sug- 
gests the  performance  of  some  surgical  operation, 
but  no  such  operatiem  appears  to  be  possible,  and 
"behaved  liKe  uncircumcised  persons"  (as  in  1  Cor 
7  18)  is  the  probable  meaning.  See  CIRCUMCISION. 
BntTox  SCOTT  KASTOX 

UNCLE,  un'k'l  fT"  ,  dodh,  "beloved,"  "uncle," 
"relation").  See  RELATIONSHIPS,  FAMILY. 

UNCLEAN,  un-klen',  SPIRIT.  See  SPIRIT,  Fx- 
e'LKA.v;  DKMON,  DK.MOXI.U'. 

UNCLEANNESS,   un-klf>n'nes : 

I.     TKUMS 

1.  In  the  OT 

2.  In  the;  NT 

3.  In  LXX 

II.      POSSIHLK    RELATION-    OF    ISUAKI.'S     LAWS    ox     I'N- 

e'LEAN  N'KSS     WITH     Till:     I.\US     (IF    T   \HCIO      \M(IN<;     T1IK 
X  A  T  I  ( )  N  rt 

III.     TEACHIXO   AS   TO    I"  NTI.K  A  \  \KSS 

1.  In  the  OT 

2.  Ill  the  Apoe' 

3.  In  the>  XT 
LITERATURE 

/.    Terms. — nS^C^  ,    tum'iih,    "  lincleanne'ss,"    "clefile-- 

ment,"   occurs   26  't   (Lev   7   20.21;    14    19;      15   :5.25.2C>. 

30.31,  etc),     rn?  .    niddah,    "separation." 

1     In  the  OT  "impurity,"  occurs  in  Le'v  20  '21;    K/r   9 

(Hebrew)       11;    /A'C  ^  l'    ^1?'    'l'rti'ah-  ()(-('urs  i» 

Dt  23  14.  -Q1!  hi^y.  'crwath  dabhdr, 
"unclean  thing"  (Dt  24  1),  is  tH  "  nne'leanne'ss"  in  AV. 
The  aelj.  J?72t2  ,  turnc',  "elcflleel,"  "  unclean,"  oe-curs  72  t 
(e)ve'i-  half  in  Lev),  but  is  nover  tH  "uncle'anness."  but 
always  "unclean."  The:  vb.  S5T2I2  .  /'»»<<"',  "te>  make1"  e>r 


Uncleanness 
Unknown  God 


TIIF,  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3036 


often.      <  )llier 


lleb 


f&naph 

The 

tharsiii 


2.  I: 

NT 


(!r  word  for  "  imeleanness"  is  a/taflapo-ia,  «/,•<;- 
which  occurs  101  (Ml  23  27;  Horn  1  24:  6  lit: 
2  Cor  12  21,  etc).  nxia<j/xos,  miaxm6x, 
iP  "pollution."  occurs  only  in  2  Pel  2  !<>• 
1C  The  adj.  a*a0apTos,  akdthartos,  "unclean." 
occurs  31  t,  23  t  in  reference  to  unclean 
spirits  (Lk  once  nsing  the  expression  "un- 
clean demon,"  4  .'515),  4  t  to  ceremonial  uncleanness 
(three  by  Peter  and  one  by  John  the  revelator).  and  4  t 
to  moral  uncleanness  (three  by  Paul  and  one  by  John 
the  revelator).  /con-tit,  A-»/;«5.x,  "common,"  •'unclean." 
occurs  S  t  in  the  sense  of  "unclean"  (Mk  7  2..r>:  Acts 
10  14.2S;  11  S;  Koin  14  14;  Kev  21  27).  The  vb. 
Kcm-uu)  kuinoo,  "to  defile,"  occurs  11  t  (M  t  15  11.1*. 
20-  Mk  7  1").  etc),  nittiW  miai/io,  "to  defile," 
occurs  .->  t  (Jn  18  2<s;  Tit  1  l.">;  Jle  12  !•">;  J"de  ver 
X)  /uoAurco,  miiliiiu'i,  "to  make  filthy,"  occurs  3  t 
(1  Cor  8  7;  Kev  3  4;  14  4).  crn-tAmo,  s  />//»»,  occurs 
twice  (.las  3  <>;  .bide  ver  23)  and  <M)tipw,  plitlu'lrft,  "to 
corrupt."  occurs  <  t  in  (  !r,  once  in  KV  (L  Cor  3  17). 

Akdthiirxiu.   "uncleanness,"   occurs  ,"><)  t  in   LXX   (in- 

cluding many  instances  in  apocryphal  books)  (1  and  "2 

Esd,  Tol),   1  and  2  Mace,  etc).      Akathar- 

3.  In  LXX       /<>•-•.   "unclean."  occurs   1:54  t  in  LXX  (in- 

cluding one  example  in  1  Mace).      A'»i'/n-x, 

"unclean."    and    k<>in«o,    "to    make   unclean,"    occur    in 

Est     I'rov     "Wisd.    1,    2.   3   and   4   Mace).      Miaino,    "to 

defile.  "   occurs  over   100  t.      Moluno,   "to  make  filthy," 

occurs  IS  t  (both  in  the  OT  and  in  Apoc). 

//.   Possible  Relation   of  Israel's  Laws   on    Un- 
cleanness with  Laws  of  Taboo  among  the  Nations. 

—  \V.  R.  Smith  (Lectures  on-  (lie  Relnjion  nf  tin1  Seni- 
V'/CN,  ir>2-r>f>)  thinks  there  is  a  kinship  between  Israel's 
laws  of  uncleunness  and  llie  lieatheu  taboo.  Frax.er, 
in  The  (loldcii  HOIKJ/I,  shows  numerous  examples  of 
the  taboo  among  various  tribes  and  nations  wliieh 
present  striking  similarity  1o  some  of  Israel's  laws 
on  uncleanness.  But-  does  this  diminish  our  respect 
for  the  OT  laws  on  uncleanness?  Might  not  Jell 
use  this  natural  religious  perception  of  men  as  to  an 
intrinsic  distinction  between  clean  and  unclean  in 
training  Israel  to  a  realization  of  a  higher  concep- 
tion —  the  real  difference  between  sin  and  holiness, 
i.e.  bet  ween  moral  defilement  and  moral  purifica- 
tion? The  hand  of  .leh  is  visible  even  in  the  devel- 
opment of  Israel's  rudimentary  laws  on  ceremonial 
uncleanness.  They  are  not  explicable  on  purely 
naturalistic  grounds,  but  Jeh  is  training  a  people  to 
be  holy,  and  so  He  starts  on  the  lower  plane  of 
ceremonial  uncleanness  and  cleanness  (see  Lev  11 
44  us  to  the  purpose  of  Jeh  in  establishing  these 
laws  respecting  clean  and  unclean  animals). 

///.    Teaching   as  to    Uncleanness.  —  Each    term 
above  for  uncleanness  is  tised  in  two  senses:   (u)_to 

signify  ceremonial  uncleanness,  which 
1.  In  the  is  the  most  usual  significance  of  the 
OT  term  in  the  OT;  (h)  but,  in  the 

Prophets,  to  emphasize  moral,  rather 
than  ceremonial,  uncleanness.  There  are  four  prin- 
cipal spheres  of  uncleanness  in  the  OT: 

(1)  Uncleanness  in  Ific  matter  of  food.  —  The  law  as 
to  clean  and  unclean  beasts  is  laid  down  in  Lev  11 
1-123.     Notice    that   the   law   does   not   extend    to 
vegetable  foods,  as  does  a  similar  law  in  the  Egyp 
religion.     Four   kinds  of  beasts  are   named   as  fit 
for  food:    (a)  among  quadrupeds,  those  that  both 
chew    the    cud    and    part    the    hoof;      (b)   among 
fishes,  only  those  having  both  fins  and  scales;    (c) 
most  birds  or  fowls,  except,  in  the  main,  birds  of 
prey  and  those  noted  for  uncleanness  of  habits,  are 
permitted;     (<l)    of    insects    those    that   have    legs 
above  the  feet  to  leap  withal  (e.g.  the  cricket,  the 
grasshopper,  etc),  but  those  that  go  on  all  four,  or 
have  many  feet,  or  go  upon  the  belly  (e.g.  worms, 
snakes,  lizards,  etc),  are  forbidden.     See,  further, 
FOOD. 

(2)  Uncleanness  connected  with  the  functions  of 
rc]>ro<lnction    (Lev  12  and  15).—  In  Lev  15  2-18, 
we  find  the  laws  applied  to  issues  of  men;    in  15 
19  ff,  to  the  issues  of  women.     Not  only  is  the  man 


or  woman  unclean  because  of  the  issue,  whether 
normal  or  abnormal,  but  the  bed  on  which  they  lie, 
or  whatever  or  whoever  is  touched  by  them  while 
they  are  in  this  state,  is  unclean.  The  uncleanness 
lasts  seven  days  from  the  cessation  of  the  issue.  To 
become  clean  men  must  wash  their  clothes  and 
bathe  their  bodies  (though  this  requirement  is  not 
made  of  women),  and  both  men  and  women  must 
offer  through  the  priest  a  pair  of  turtle-doves,  or 
two  young  pigeons  (Lev  15).  According  to  Lev 
13,  the  woman  who  conceives  and  bears  a  child  is 
unclean.  This  uncleanness  lasts  seven  days  if  the 
child  born  is  a  male,  but  1  t  days  if  the  child  is  a 
female.  However,  there  is  a  partial  uncleanness  of 
the  mother  that  continues  40  days  from  the  birth 
of  a  male,  SO  days  from  the  birth  of  a  female,  at  the 
end  of  which  period  she  is  purified  by  offering  a  lamb 
and  a  young  pigeon  (or  turtle-dove),  or  if  too  poor 
to  offer  a  lamb  she  may  substitute!  one  of  the  birds 
for  the  lamb. 

(3)  t'ncl/'dtmess  connected  with  leprosy. — Accord- 
ing to   Lev  14  and  15,  the  leper  was  regarded  as 
under  the  stroke  of  (lod,  and  so  was  deemed  tin- 
clean.     The  leper  (so  adjudged  by  the  priest)  must 
separate  himself  from  others,  with  torn  clothes,  di- 
sheveled hair,  and  crying  with  covered  lips,  "I  n- 
clean!    I'nclean!1'     That  is,   he  was  regarded  as  a 
dead  man,  and  therefore  unclean  and  so  must  live 
secluded      from     others.      See,      further,      LKI-KU, 
LEPROSY. 

(4)  Uncleanness  associated  with  death.—  Accord- 
ing to  Lev  15  24-40,  anyone  who  touched  a  dead 
beast,  whether  unclean  or  clean,  was  rendered  un- 
clean.    According  to  Nu  19  11-22,  anyone  touch- 
ing the  corpse  of  a  human  being  is  unclean.     Like- 
wise, everyone  in  the  tent,  or  who  enters  the  tent, 
where  lies  a  dead  man,  is  unclean  seven  days.     Even 
the  open  vessels  in  the  tent  with  a  dead  person  are 
unclean  seven  days.    Whoever,  furthermore,  touched 
a  dead  man's  bone  or  grave  was  unclean  seven  days. 
Purification,    in   all   these   cases  of   uncleanness   as 
related   to   death,    was   secured   by   sprinkling   the 
ashes  of  a  red  heifer  with  living  water  upon  the 
unclean  person,  or  object,  on  the  3d  and  7th  days. 
See    PUKIFI CATION. 

In    Toh  3  7-«>;     6  13.14;     711;     8   1-3;     1  Mace  1 
41-53,  and  in  other  books,  \ve  find  the  same  laws  on  un- 
cleanness  recognized    by    the   descendants 
9     Tn  flip          °f   Abraham.     It  was   regarded   as  abomi- 
nable to  sacrifice  other  animals  (swine  for 
ApOC  instance)    than    those   prescribed   by   Jeh. 

There  is  a  growing  sense  in  Israel  during 
this  period,  that  all  customs  and  all  conduct  of  the 
heathen  are  unclean.  Witness  the  resistance  of  the 
loyal  Jews  to  the  demands  of  Antiochus  Eplphanes  (I 
Mace  1,  2,  6,  7 1.  The  sense  of  ceremonial  uncleanness 
was  still  a  conspicuous  element  in  the  religious  conscious- 
ness of  the  Jews  in  the  inter-Bib,  period.  But  the  train- 
ing of  Cod  in  ceremonial  purification  and  in  the  moral 
and  spiritual  teachings  of  the  prophets  had  prepared  the 
way  for  an  advance  in  moral  cleanness  (both  in  thought 
and  in  practice). 

By  the  days  of  Jesus  the  scribes  and  rabbis  had 
wrought  out  a  most  cumbrous  system  of  ceremonial 
uncleanness  and  purification.  Nor  did 
3.  In  the  they  claim  that  all  their  teachings  on 
NT  this  subject  were  found  in  the  OT. 

See  TRADITION.  This  is  fitly  illus- 
trated in  the  NT  in  the  washing  of  hands.  See 
UNWASHEN.  When  the  Mish  (the  collection  of 
rabbinic  teachings)  was  produced,  the  largest  book 
was  devoted  to  the  laws  of  purification,  30  chapters 
being  used  to  describe  the  purification  of  vessels 
alone. 

See  Jn  2  1-11,  and  note  how  the  Jews  had  six 
stone  waterpots  for  purification  at  the  wedding  in 
Cana.  See  Jn  3  25  as  to  the  controversy  on  purifica- 
tion between  John's  disciples  and  the  Jews.  This 
question  of  cleanness  and  uncleanness  was  a  tre- 
mendous issue  with  every  Jew.  lie  must  keep  himself 


3037 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Uncleanness 
Unknown  God 


ihl 


eous  and  win 


ceremonially  clean  if  lie  would  1>< 
the  approval  of  (  !od. 

Jesus  utterly  disregarded  for  Himself  these  laws 
of  purification,  though  lie  orders  the  cleansed  leper 
to  return  to  the  priest,  and  secure  his  certificate  of 
cleansing.  He  did  not  wash  His  hands  before  eat- 
ing, and  His  disciples  followed  His  example.  There- 
fore t  lie  Pharisees  challenged  Him  to  give  tin  account 
of  His  course  and  that  of  His  disciples  (Mt  15 
3-20  =Mk  7  0-23).  Jesus  then  enunciated  the 
great  principle  that,  there  is  no  ceremonial,  hut  only 
moral  and  spiritual,  uncleanness.  Not  what  goes 
into  a  man  from  hands  that,  touch  unclean  things 
defiles  the  man,  hut,  I  he  th'ings  that  come  out  of  his 
heart,  evil  thoughts,  hatred,  adultery,  murder,  etc, 
these  delile  the  man. 

Paul  likewise  regarded  nothing  as  unclean  of 
itself  (Rom  14  14.20;  Tit  1  IT)),  yet  no  man 
should  violate  the  scruples  of  his  own  conscience 
or  that  of  his  brother  (and  thus  put  a  stumbling- 
block  in  his  way  ).  Love,  not  ceremonialism  is  the 
supreme  law  of  the  Christian.  Paul,  in  submitting 
to  the  vow  of  purification  in  Jcrus,  set  tin  example 
of  this  principle  (Acts  21  26).  See  also  CRIMES; 
PUNISHMENTS. 

LiTKUATriti:.  —  "NY.  R.  Smith,  Lectures  on  the.  Religion 
of  tlie.  Semite*  (esp.  pp.  l.^-of),  oil  taboo,  and  pp.  455, 
450,  on  the  uncleanness  of  sexual  intercourse);  Frazer, 
The.  (!ul<lcn  Buut/h  (examples  of  taboo  and  similar  laws 
and  customs  amonj?  various  nations);  Frazer,  art. 
••Taboo"  in  Kite  lirit,  Wh  ed  ;  Benzin^er,  11,1,  Archae- 
»l->>/!/:  NTowack,  //,•/,  Archaeoloyy;  Ki-llo^,'.  comm.  on 
••Lev  (Expositor'  a  Bible);  Kalisch,  Leviticus;  Dillmann- 
v.vss-'l,  Levitirux;  Schultz,  Dillmann,  Smcnd.  Marti, 
Davidson,  in  their  <)T  Theologies.  «ive  useful  hints  on 
this  subject;  art.  "Casuistry"  (  Hebj  in  EKE,  III,  is 
valuable. 

CHARLES  B.  WILLIAMS 
UNCLOTHED,  un-klothd'.    See  CLOTHED  UPON. 

UNCTION,  unk'shun:  The  AV  tr  of  xp?<r/xa, 
chrlxma  (1  Jn  2  20),  which  RV  renders  "anoint- 
ing," as  AV  renders  the  same  word  in  1  Jn  2  27. 

UNDEFILED,  un-do-flld':  In  the  OT  CP  ,  tarn, 
"perfect,"  presents  the  positive  side.  Hence  Ps 
119  1  is  tr'1  in  RV:  "Blessed  are  they  that  are  per- 
fect in  the  way."  In  the  NT  aniavTos,  ainmntos, 
presents  t  he  negative  side,  "unstained,"  "unsullied," 
"without  taint."  Used  to  describe  the  sinlessness 
of  Christ  (He  7  2(5),  to  declare  the  marriage  act 
free  from  all  guilt,  disgrace  or  shame  (He  13  4), 
to  contrast  the  heavenly  inheritance  with  earthly 
possessions  (1  Pet  1  4). 

UNDERGIRDING,  un-der-gurd'ing.  See  SHIPS 
AND  BOATS,  HI,  2. 

UNDERNEATH,  un-der-neth'  (r.nn  ,  tahath,  "the 
bottom  [as  depressed]")  :  "Underneath  are  the  ever- 
lasting arms"  (Dt  33  27).  In  these  words  Moses 
sums  up  the  history  of  Israel  and  gives  expression 
to  his  final  thought  about  life  and  time  and  all  things 
visible.  Underneath  till  phenomena  and  all  the 
chances  and  changes  of  life  and  time  there  is  un- 
changing law,  everlasting  principle,  an  all-enfolding 
power,  an  all-embracing  love. 


UNDERSETTER,  un'der-set-er  (SrD  ,  kathcph')  : 
The  word,  used  in  1  K  7  30.34  of  supports  of  the 
laver,  means  lit.  "shoulder,"  and  is  so  rendered  in 
RVm.  See  LAVER. 

UNDERTAKE,  un-der-tak':  "To  take  upon 
one's  self,"  "assume  responsibility,"  and  so  in 
Elizabethan  Eng.  "be  surety."  In  this  sense  in 
AV  Isa  38  14,  "O  Lord,  ....  undertake  for  me" 
(yy?  ,  *arabh,  RV  "be  thou  my  surety").  Perhaps 
in  the  same  sense  in  Sir  29  19,  although  the  idea  is 


scarcely  contained  in  the  (Jr  vb.  OIWKW,  tlifjko,  "pur- 
sue." In  the  modern  sense  in  1  Esd  1  2S;  2  Mace 
2  20;  8  10;  AV  2  27.  SeeSrm:;  SURETY. 

UNEQUAL,  un-e'kwal:  E/k  18  2.1.20  for  ]2n  «b  , 
Id'  l/iak/Hin,  "not  weighed,"  "illogical."  "Un- 
equally" in  2  Cor  6  11,  in  the  phrase  "unequally 
yoked,"  trepofuytu,  hc/erozui/cd,  is  used  of  the  yoking 
together  of  two  animals  of  different  kinds  (cf  LXX 
of  Lev  19  10). 

UNFEIGNED,  un-ffmd'  (dvuiroKpiTos,  nniijtokrflox, 
"unfeigned,"  " undisguised " j :  The  Or  word  occurs 
only  in  the  NT  (1  Tim  1  5;  2  Tim  1  f>)  and  is 
designative  of  the  moral  quality  of  faith  as  "the 
mark  of  transparency  and  simplicity  of  .soul  (In- 
most complete  and  distinct  exponent  of  a  man's 
character — the  natural  hypothesis  of  a  pure  and 
good  heart — a  readiness  to  believe  in  goodness" 
(Martineau,  Hours  of  Thought,  First  Series,  80  if). 
Cf  2  Cor  6  G;  1  Pet  1  22;'  Jas  3  17. 

UNGODLY,  un-god'li  (2th ,  raslu?  [Ps  1  1], 
"wicked, "b?*b3,  b'ilya\d  [2  s'22  f>],  "worthless"; 
in  the  XT  do-e|3T|s,  (iscbf's  |  Rom  5  0],  e.g.  indicating 
that  the  persons  so  called  are  both  irreverent  and 
impious):  Trench  says  that  the  idea  of  active;  oppo- 
sition to  religion  is  involved  in  the  word,  that  it  is 
a  deliberate  withholding  from  God  of  His  dues  of 
prayer  and  of  service;  a  standing,  so  to  speak,  in 
battle  array  against  God  and  His  claims  to  respect, 
reverence  and  obedience.  Those  whose  sins  are 
particularly  aggravating  and  deserving  of  God's 
wrath  are  the  "ungodly."  And  yet  it  is  for  such 
that  Jesus  Christ  died  (Rom  5  G). 

WILLIAM  EVANS 

UNICORN,  u'ni-korn  (S^H  ,  r'cm  [Xu  23  22; 
24  8;  Dt  33  17;  Job  39  9.10;  Ps  22  21;  29  6; 
92  10;  Lsa  34  7J):  "Unicorn"  occurs  in  AV  in  the 
passages  cited,  where  II V  has  "wild-ox"  (q.v.). 

UNITY,  u'ni-tl:  Ps  133  1  for  "irP  ,  yr,Jm<!Ji, 
"unitedness,"  and  Eph  4  3.13  for  (*«4rijs,  henotes, 
"oneness."  Also  Sir  25  1  AV  for  o^bvoia,  homonoia, 
"concord"  (so  11 V). 

UNKNOWN,  un-non',  GOD  (cryvajcrTos  Oeos, 
dgnostos  thcos):  In  Acts  17  23  (St.  Paul's  speech 
in  Athens)  ARV  reads:  "I  found  also  an  altar  with 
this  inscription,  To  AN  UNKNOWN  GOD.  What 
therefore  ye  worship  in  ignorance,  this  I  set,  forth 
unto  you."  AV  and  ERVm  translate  "to  the. 
Unknown  God,"  owing  to  the  fact  that  in  Gr  certain 
words,  of  which  llu'os  is  one-,  may  drop  the  art .  when 
it  is  to  be  understood.  In  the  present  case  the  use 
of  the  art.  is  probably  right  (cf  ver  24).  In  addi- 
tion, AV  reads  "whom"  and  "him"  in  place  of 
"what"  and  "this."  The  difference  here  is  due  to 
a  variation  in  the  Gr  MSS,  most  of  which  support 
AV.  _  But  internal  probability  is  against  AV's 
reading,  as  it  would  have  been  very  easy  for  a  scribe 
to  change  neuters  (referring  to  the  Divine  power) 
into  masculines  after  "God,"  but  not  vice  versa. 
Hence  modern  editors  (except  von  Soden's  margin) 
have  adopted  the  reading  in  RV. 

St.  Paul  in  Athens,  "as  he  beheld  the  city  full  of 
idols,"  felt  that  God  was  truly  unknown  there. 
Hence  the  altar  with  the  inscription  struck  him  as 
particularly  significant.  Some  Athenians,  at  anv 
rate,  felt  the  religious  inadequacy  of  all  known 
deities  and  were  appealing  to  the  God  who  they 
felt  must  exist,  although  they  knew  nothing  definite 
about  Him.  No  better  starting-point  for  an  ad- 
dress could  be  wished.  What  the  inscription 
actually  _ meant,  however,  is  another  question. 
Nothing  is  known  about  it.  Altars  dedicated  "to 
unknown  gods"  (in  the  pi.)  seem  to  have  been  fairly 


THE  INTERNATIONA!,  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Unlearned 
Uriah,  Urijah 

common  (Jerome  on  Tit  1  12;  Pausanias,  i.1.4, 
Phil-ntcr  Vita  Apoll.,  vi.3),  and  Hhiss  (Camm.  ad 
loc.)  has  even  suggested  that  the  words  in  Acts  wore 
originally  in  the  pi.  But,  this  would  spoil  the  whole 
point  of 'the  speech,  and  the  absence  of  references  to 
•i  sino-le  inscription  among  thousands  thai  existed 
ran  cause  no  surprise.  Those  inscriptions  in  the 
pi  seem  to  have  been  meant  in  the  sense  to  the 
other  deities  that  may  exist  in  addition  to  those 
already  known,"  but  an  inscription  in  the  sing,  could 
not  have  this  meaning.  Perhaps  a  votive  inscrip- 
tion is  meant,  where  the  worshipper  did  not  know 
which  god  to  thank  for  some  benefit  received.  That 
a  shir  on  all  the  other  Athenian  objects  of  worship 
was  intended  is,  however,  most  improbable,  but 
St.  Paul  could  not  of  course  be  expected  to  know 
the  technical  meaning  of  such  inscriptions.  See 
ATHENS.  BniTox  SCOTT  E ASTON 

UNLEARNED,  nn-lur'ned:  Acts  4  13  for  dypd^.- 
/xaros,  <i(/rd»nnatos,  lit.  "illiterate."  But  nothing 
more  than  "lacking  technical  rabbinical  instruction 
seems  to  be  meant  (cf  Jn  7  15).  1  Cor  14  16.2324 
for  iSiwrijs,  itlidtf'*,  "private  person,"  HA  m  "he  that 
is  without  gifts,"  correctly  expresses  the  sense1  (  'un- 
believer" is  hardly  in  point);  also  AV  2  Tim  2  23; 
2  Pet  3  10  (RV  "ignorant"). 

UNLEAVENED,  nn-lcv"nd.  See  LKAVKX; 
PASSOVER;  SACRIFICE  IN"  THE  OT. 

UNNATURAL     VICE,     un-nat'n-ral     vis.      See 

ClUMKS;     PUNISHMENTS. 

UNNI,   un'I   C1?"  ,  *unnl,  meaning  unknown): 

(1)  One  of  "the  twelve  brethren"  (so  Curtis  for 
RV  '"brethren  of  the  second  degree")  appointed  as 
singers  (1   Ch  16   1S.20). 

(2)  In  Xeh  12  9  (K'thlbh  12? ,  'wnno)=RV  I'XN'O 
(q.v.). 

UNNO,  un'o  (137,  *unno;  LXX  omits  the  name, 
but  in  X  a  later  hand  has  added  'lava,  land;  the 
K-re  of  the  MT  lias  ^ ,  *unnl,  as  in  1  Ch  15  IS, 
whence  AV  "I'nni"):  A  Levite  who  returned  with 
Zeruboabel  (Xch  12  0). 

UNPARDONABLE,  un-piir'd'n-a-b'l,  SIN.  See 
BLASPHEMY. 

UNQUENCHABLE,  un-kwench'a-b'l,  FIRE  (irCp 
ao-pto-Tos,  pur  dxhosloN):  The  phrase  occurs  in  Mt 
3  12  and  its  ||  Lk  3  17  in  the  words  of  the  Bap- 
tist on  the  Messianic  judgment :  "The  chaff  he  will 
burn  up  with  unquenchable  fire";  but  also  on  the 
lips  of  Christ  Himself  in  Mk  9  43,  where  the 
"unquenchable  fire"  is  equated  with  "Gehenna" 
(q.v.).  The  same  idea  lies  in  ver  4S,_'The  fin;  is  not 
quenched"  (ou  sbennutai),  and  is  implied  in  the 
numerous  allusions  to  fire  as  the  instrument  of 
punishment  and  destruction  in  the  Gospels  and  other 
parts  of  the  NT  (e.g.  "the  Gehenna  of  fire,"  Mt 
5  ''2m,  etc;  "furnace  of  fin1,"  Mt  13  40.42.50;  "eter- 
nal fire  "  Mt  25  41;  cf  also  2  Thess  1  8;  2  Pet  3 
7-  Jude  ver  7;  Rev  19  20;  20  10.14.15;  21  8).  For 
OT  analogies  cf  Isa  1  31;  34  10;  66  24;  Jer  4  4; 
720;  1727;  2112;  Ezk  20  47.48.  The  language 
is  obviously  highly  metaphorical,  conveying  the 
idea  of  an  awful  and  abiding  judgment,  but  is  not 
to  be  pressed  as  teaching  a  destruction  in  the  sense 
of  annihilation  of  the  wicked.  An  unquenchable 
fire  is  not  needed  for  a  momentary  act  of  destruc- 
tion. Even  in  the  view  of  Rev.  Edward  White  the 
wicked  survive  the  period  of  judgment  to  which 
these  terms  relate.  See  PUNISHMENT,  EVERLASTING. 

JAMES  ORR 


3038 


UNTEMPERED,  nn-tcm'pcrd  (bEP ,  taphcl): 
Tsed  of  mortar  in  E/k  13  10-15;  22  28.  Taphf-L 
probably  refers  to  mortar  made  with. clay  instead 
of  slaked  lime.  In  the  interior  of  Pal  and  Syria 
walls  are  still  commonly  built  of  small  stones  or 
mud  bricks,  and  t  hen  smeared  over  wit  h  clay  mortar. 
The  surface  is  rubbed  smooth  and  is  attractive  in 
appearance.  This  coating  prolongs  the  life  of  the 
wall  but  requires  yearly  attention  if  the  wall  is  to 
stand. 

Ezekiel  uses  the  practice  to  typify  the  work  ot 
false  prophets.  They  build  up  stories  and  make 
them  plausible  by  ati  outward  semblance!  to  truth, 
while,  in  fact,  they  are  flimsy,  unreliable  prophecies, 
resembling  the  walls  described  above,  which  can  be 
broken  down  by  a  push  or  a  heavy  rain  storm. 

JAMES  A.   PATCH 

UNTOWARD,  un-to'erd,  un-tord'  (o-KoXios, 
skoliox):  Appears  only  in  Acts  2  40,  AV  'jSave 
yourselves  from  this  untoward  generation.  _ 
means  "perverse,"  "wilful,"  "crooked,"  and  is  so 
trd  in  RV:  "this  crooked  generation"  (apo  Its 
ycm'ds  Its  skolids  taut  ex).  AV  headings  to  Isa  28 
and  IIos  6  have1  "untowardness."  This  new  obso- 
lete term  probably  derive>el  its  orgin  from  the  idea 
of  the;  heart  that  "was  not  inclineel  toward  the  Di- 
vine will  and  teaching.  Hence  "not-toward,"  or 
"untoward." 

UNWALLED,  im-weMd'.     See  VILLAGE;  WALL. 

UNWASHEN,  un-wosh"n  (avurros,  dniplos): 
Occurs  only  twice  in  the  NT,  not  at  all  in  the  Heb 
or  Gr  OT  (Mt  15  20  =  Mk  7  2).  Jesus  is  here  de- 
nouncing the1  traditionalism  of  the  scribes  anel  Phari- 
sees. 1'ncleanness,  to  them,  was  external  and 
purification  was  ceremonial.  Hence  the  Pharisaic 
view  that  the  hands  became  unclean  (religiously, 
not  physically),  and  so  before  meals  must  be  cleansed 
(religiously)  "by  washing,  which  consisted  in  two 
affusions  and  must  extenel  up  to  the  wrist,  else  the 
hand  was  still  unclean.  Jewish  tradition  traced 
this  custom  back  to  Solomon  (see  Shabbalh  146, 
end)  but  the  first  unmistakable  occurrence  of  the 
custom  is  in  the1  Sib  Or  (3  591-93),  where  the  hands 
are  said  to  be1  washed  in  connection  with  prayer 
and  thanksgiving.  The  schools  of  Shammai  and 
Hillel  though  usually  d  iff  (Ting  on  points  of  tradition, 
agn-ed  on  the  washing  of  hands  as  necessary  for 
ceremonial  purification  (having  reached  this  agree- 
ment, in  the  early  part  of  Jesus'  life).  See  PURITY; 
CNCLF.AXNESS. 

LITERATURE. — Broaelus,  Comm.  on  Mt  (15  2-20); 
Gould.  Swete,  comma,  on  Mk  (7  2) ;  Ederslu-im ,7  he 
Life  and  Times  nf  Jesua  tin-  Messiah,  II,  MM;  hchurer, 
//.//'.  div  II,  vol  I,  §25  ("Scriblsm  ). 

CHARLES  B.  V*  ILLIAMS 

UNWORTHILY,  un-wur'thi-li:  1  Ce>r  11  27.29 
AV  for  di/afiws,  anaxios.  In  ver  29,  RV,  on  con- 
vincing textual  evielence,  has  omitted  the  word, 
which  is  a  needless  gle>ss  (cf  RV's  tr  of  the  whole 
verse).  In  ver  27  ARV  has  changed  "unworthily 
to  "in  an  unworthy  manner,"  a  rather  pointless 
alteration. 

UNWRITTEN,  un-rit"n,  SAYINGS.  See 
AGRAPHA. 

UPHARSIN,  u-far'sin  CpP"!?rl ,  uphar&n).  See 
MENE,  MENE,  TEKEL,  I'PHARSIN. 

UPHAZ,  u'faz  (TE1S,  'uphaz}:  A  gold-bearing 
region,  mentioned  in' Jer  10  9;  Dnl  10  5,  other- 
wise unknown.  Perhaps  in  both  passages  Ophir, 
which  differs  in  one  consonant  only,  should  be  read. 
In  the  second  passage,  instead  of  "gold  of  Uphaz, 
perhaps  "gold  and  fine  gold"  ('uphaz)  should  be 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Unlearned 
Uriah,  Urijah 


road.  The  .Torus  Talm  states  that  there  were  seven 
kinds  of  gold,  good  gold,  pure,  precious,  gold  of 
Uphaz,  purified,  refined,  and  red  gold  of  Parvaim 
(2  Ch  3  (>).  That,  of  I'phaz,  which  is  so  called 
from  the  place  from  which  it  comes,  resembles 
"flashes  of  fire  fed  with  pitch"  (M.  Schwab,  The 
Talmud  of  Jerusalem,  V,  207  f). 

THOMAS  HUNTICR  WKIR 

UPPER  CHAMBER,  up'er  cham'ber,  UPPER 
ROOM  (rpb>,  \Wyah  [2  K  1  2],  etc;  dvto^ov, 
artdycon  [Mk  14  15;  Lk  22  12],  vir«pujov,  hn/><  ronn 
[Acts  1  13;  9  37.39;  20  8]):  In  Jgs  3  20  KltV 
renders  ".sum'mer  parlor"  and  in  m  "Hob 'Upper 
chamber  of  cooling.'  "  This  was  probably  a  roof- 
chamber.  The  "upper  chamber"  of  Ahaziah  in 
2  K  1  2  was  evidently  in  the  2d  story  of  the  build- 
ing. On  the  "upper  chambers"  of  the  temple  (1  Ch 
28  11;  2  Ch  3  9),  see  TKMPLK.  The  "large  upper 
room"  which  was  the  scene  of  the  Last  Supper,  with 
that  in  Acts  1  13,  was  also  plainly  an  upper-story 
chamber.  That  in  Acts  20  8  was  in  the  3d  story 
(at  Miletus,  a  Gr  city).  See  also  HOUSK. 

JAMES  ORR 

UR,  ur  ("!*X,  'ur,  "flame";  B,  SOvp,  Mhur,  S, 
Tipd,  Ord):  Father  of  Eliphal,  one  of  David's 
"mighty  men,"  in  1  Ch  11  35;  in  the  ||  2  S  23 
31  called  "Ahasbai." 

UR  OF  THE  CHALDEES,  kal'dez  (D'Hlp?  TK , 
'iir  kasdiin ;  r]  \<*>p<i  [TWV]  Xa\8a£cov,  he  chora  [ton] 
Chaidawn):  For  more  than  2,000  years  efforts  have 
been  made  to  identify  the  site  of  this  city.  The 
writers  of  the  LXX,  either  being  unfamiliar  with  the 
site,  or  not  considering  it  a  city,  wrote  chora,  "land," 
instead  of  I'r.  Eupolemus,  who  lived  about  150 
BC,  spoke  of  it  as  being  a  city  of  Babylonia  called 
Camarina,  which  he  said  was  called  by  some  Ouria. 
St.  Stephen  (Acts  7  2.4)  regarded  the  place  as  being 
in  Mesopotamia.  The  Talm,  however,  as  well  as 
some  later  Arab,  writers,  regarded  Ercch  (LXX 
"Ope/c,  Orek)  as  the  city.  The  cuneiform  writing 
of  this  city,  rruki,  would  seem  to  support  this  view, 
but  Erech  is  mentioned  in  Gen.  Ammianus  Mar- 
cellinus  identified  the  city  with  the  castle  of  l"r  in 
the  desert  between  Hatra  and  Nisibis,  but  this  was 
only  founded  in  the  time  of  the  Persians.  Owing 
to  its  nearness  to  Ilaran,  and  because  St.  Stephen 
placed  it  in  Mesopotamia,  Urfa  or  Oorfa,  named 
Edessa  by  the  Greeks,  has  also  in  modern  times 
been  identified  as  the  city.  But  Seleucus  is  credited 
with  having  built  this  city. 

The  most  generally  accepted  theory  at  the  present 
time  is  that  l"r  is  to  be  identified  with  the  modern 
M uyhiir  (or  Mughayyar,  "the  pitchy")  in  Southern 
Babylonia,  called  Urumma,  or  I'rima,  and  later 
Urii  in  the  inscriptions.  This  borders  on  the  dis- 
trict which  in  the  1st  millennium  BC  was  called 
Chaldaea  (Kaldu). 

This,  some  hold,  accords  with  the  view  of  Eu- 
polemus, because,  Camarina  may  be  from  the  Arab, 
name  of  the  moon  kumar,  which  refers  perhaps  to 
the  fact  that  the  ancient  city  was  dedicated  to 
the  worship  of  the  moon-god.  Another  argument 
which  has  been  advanced  for  this  identification  is 
that  Ilaran,  the  city  to  which  Terah  migrated,  was 
also  a  center  of  moonrgod  worship.  This,  however, 
is  precarious,  because  Urumma  or  Urima  in  Abra- 
ham's day  was  a  Sumerian  center,  and  the  seat  of 
Naimar-worship,  whereas  Haran  was  Semitic,  and 
was  dedicated  to  Sin.  Although  these  two  deities 
in  later  centuries  were  identified  with  each  other, 
still  the  argument  seems  to  have  little  weight,  as 
other  deities  were  also  prominently  worshipped  in 
those  cities,  particularly  Ilaran,  which  fact  reminds 
us  also  that  the  Talm  says  Terah  worshipped  no 
less  than  12  deities. 


It  should  be  stated  that  there  are  scholars  who 
hold,  with  the  LXX,  that  I'r  means,  not  a  city,  but 
perhaps  a  land  in  which  the  patriarch  pastured  his 
flocks,  as  for  instance1,  the  land  of  I  'rior  I  ra  (Akkad). 
The  designation  "of  the  Chaldaeans"  was  in  this 
ease  intended  to  distinguish  it  from  the  land  where 
they  were  not  found. 

Still  another  identification  is  the  town  I'm 
(Mar-tu)  near  Sippar,  a  place  of  prominence  in  the 
time  of  Abraham,  but  which  was  lost  sight  of  in  sub- 
sequent periods  (of  Aniurru,  lt>7).  This  fact  would 
account  for  the  failure  to  identify  the  place  in  the 
late  pre-Christian  centuries,  when  I'rima  or  I  ril 
still  flourished.  Western  Semites  —  for  the  name 
Abrain  is  not  Bab  —  lived  in  this  city  in  large  num- 
bers in  the  ago  when  the  patriarch  lived.  The  Bab 
contract  lit.  from  this,  as  well  as  other  sites,  is  full 
of  names  from  the  western  Sem  lands,  Aram  and 
Amurru.  This  fact  makes  it  reasonable  that  the 
site  should  be  found  in  Babylonia;  but,  as  stated, 
although  the  arguments  an;  by  no  means  weighty, 
more  scholars  at  the  present  favor  Mnghcir  than 
any  other  site.  A.  T.  CLAY 

URBANE,  ur'ban,  -ban'.     See  UKHAXUS. 

URBANUS,  xrr-ba'nus  (Ovp|3av6s,  Ourbanos;  AV 
Urbane):  A  common  slave  name.  Clifford  says 
that  it  is  found  "as  here,  in  juxtaposition  with  Am- 
pliatus,  in  a  list  of  imperial  freedmen,  on  an  in- 
scription, 115  AD."  He  was  a  member  of  the 
Christian  community  at  Rome  to  whom  Paul  sent 
greetings.  Paul  calls  him  "our  fellow-worker  in 
Christ"  (Rom  16  9).  "The  'our'  (as  opposed  to 
'my,'  ver  3)  seems  to  suggest  that  all  Christ  ian  work- 
ers had  a  common  helper  in  Urbanus"  (Denney). 


URI,  u'ri,  oo'ri  PT«  p"!$  in  1  K  4  19],  'iirl, 
"fiery,"  unless  the  word  be  contracted  for  rT"^, 
'urlyah,  "Uriah"): 

(1)  Son  of  Hur,  and  father  of  Bezalel  (Ex  31  2; 
35  30;   38  22;    1  Ch  2  20;   2  Ch  1  5). 

(2)  Father  of  Geber,  one  of  Solomon's   12  pro- 
vision officers  (1  K  4  19;   LXX  B  A,  'ASaf,  Adai). 

(3)  A   porter   who   had   married   a   foreign    wife 
(Ezr  10  24;    LXX  B  X,  'QdoAO,   Odouth,   A,    'QSovt, 
Odoue,  Luc.,  Ovplas,  Ourias). 


URIAH,  u-r!'a,  URIJAH,  u-ri'ja  (n*-fl»  ,  'url- 
yah, in  Jer  26  20  in^X  ,  'iiriyahu,  "flame  of  Jeh" 
or  "my  light  is  Jeh";  LXX  and  NT  Ovp[€]£as, 
Our[e]ias,  with  variants;  AV  has  Urijah  in  2  K  16 
10-16;  Neh  3  4.21;  8  4;  Jer  26  20): 

(1)  A  Hittite,  who  had  settled  in  Jerus  at  the 
time  of  David  and  who  had  entered  David's  serv- 
ice.    He  had  become  a  worshipper  of  Jeh  (judging 
from  the  usual  interpretations  of  his  name)  ai.d  had 
married  a  Heb  wife,  BATH-SHEBA  (q.v.).     David's 
sin  with  this  woman  occurred  while  Uriah  was  en- 
gaged in  warfare,  and  David  had  him  recalled  to 
Jerus  in  order  to  hide  what  had  transpired.     Uriah, 
however,  felt  himself  bound  by  the  consecration  of 
a  soldier  (of  1  S  21  5;   Dt  23  10  f)  and  refused  to 
do  violence  to  his  religion,  so  that  David's  ruse  was 
in  vain.     (The  point  is  missed  here  by  speaking  of 
Uriah's   "chivalrous  determination,"    as  in    HDB, 
IV,  837.)     David,  in  desperation,  wrote  Joab  in- 
structions that  were  virtually  a  command  to  have 
Uriah  murdered,  and  these  instructions  were  duly 
carried     out     (2  S  11  2-27).      The     inclusion     of 
Uriah's  name  in  the  list  of  the  "mighty  men"  in 
2  S  23  39  i|  1  Ch  11  41  is  proof  of  his  reputation 
as  a  soldier,  and  the  name  is  found  also  in  2  S  12 
910.15;   1  K  15  5;   Mt  1  6.     On  the  occurrence  in 
Mt  see  esp.  HcfTern,  JBL,  XXXI,  61)  ff  (1912). 

(2)  A  priest  under  Ahaz,  who  carried  into  effect 


Urias 
Usury 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3040 


the  Litter's  commands  to  introduce  an  Assyr  altar 
into  the  Temple  and  to  use  it  for  the  sacrifices  (2  K 
16  10-1(3;  see  ALT  AH).  The  same  Uriah  appears  in 
Is;  i  8  2  as  one  of  the  two  "faithful  witnesses"  taken 
by  Isaiah  in  the  matter  of  Maher-shalal-hash-baz. 
This  description  lias  seemed  to  many  to  conflict 
with  Uriah's  compliancy  in  obeying  Ahaz,  but  it 
must  be  remembered  that  (a)  "faithful  witness" 
means  simply  "one  whom  the  people  will  believe," 
and  (b)  the  articles  in  the  sanctuary  were  not  held 
aa  immutably  sacred  in  the  time  of  Ahaz  as  they 
wen1  in  later  days.  The  omission  of  Uriah's  name 
from  the  list  in  1  Ch  6  10-14  is  probably  without 
significance',  as  Ch  records  only  nine  names  from 
Solomon  to  the  exile,  showing  that  there  must  be 
many  omissions.  The  corresponding  list  in  Jos, 
Ant,  X,  viii,  0,  contains  IS  names,  including  Uriah's. 

(3)  A  son  of  Shemaiah,   of    Kiriath-jearim,   and 
a  contemporary  of  Jeremiah,     lie  was  a  prophet, 
and    his   prophecy    agreed    with    Jeremiah's    in    all 
regards.     Jehoiakim,     roused     to     anger,     arrested 
him,  even  at  the  t  rouble,  of  a  pursuit  into  Egypt, 
put  him  to  death  and  desecrated  his  Ixxly  (Jer  26 
20-23).     The,  story  is  told  partly  in  order  to  show 
the  greatness  of  Jeremiah's  dangers,  partly  to  bear 
record  of  the  goodness  of  AHIKAM  (q.v.),  Jeremiah's 
protector. 

(4)  A  priest,  the  father  of  MKUKMOTH  (q.v.)  (Ezr 
8  33;     Noli   3   4.21;    1   Esd  8  02     ["Urias,"   AV 
"Iri"]). 

(5)  One  of  those  on   Ezra's  right  hand   at  the 
reading    of    the     Law     (Neh    84;      1    Esd   9    43 
["Urias"]).     Quite  possibly  identical  with  (4)  above. 

Briiro.v  SCOTT  EASTO.V 

URIAS,    n-rl'as    (OvptCas,   Onreins;     B1',    Ovpia, 
Ourui,  A,  OvpC,  Ouri;   AV  Iri): 

(1)  The     father     of     Marmoth     (1    Esd  8  62)  = 
"Uriah"  of  Ezr  8  33,  and  perhaps  identical  with 
(2). 

(2)  Bb   A,    Oweias,   Ourias=one   of    those   who 
stood   on   Ezra's  right  hand   as  he  read   the   Law 
(1  Esd  9  43)=  "Uriah"  of  Neh  8  4. 

URIAS  (Ovptas,  Out-ia*}:  AV;  Or  form  of  "Uriah" 
(thus  RV).     The  husband  of  Bath-sheba  (Mt  1  (>). 


URIEL,  u'ri-el  pJTTX  ,  'url'el,  "flame  of  El 
[God],"  or  "El  is  my  light"): 

(1)  A    Kohathite,  said   in    1  Ch  15  5  to   be  the 
chief  of  the  sons  of  Kohath   (1  Ch  6  24  [Heb  ver 
9];    15  5.11).     He  corresponds  to  Zephaniah  in  the 
pedigree  of  lleman  in  1  Ch  6  33-3S  (Heb  18-23). 
See  Curtis,  Cliron.,  130f. 

(2)  A  man  of  (Jibeah,  and  father  of  Micaiah  the 
mother  of  King  Abijah  of  Judah  (2  Ch  13  2). 

(3)  The     archangel     (En  20  2,  etc).      See    next 
article. 

URIEL  (Ot>piT]\,  Oiirif'l,  "fire  or  flame  of  Clod" 
or  "my  light  is  Clod"):  Called  only  in  2  Esd  an 
"angel,"  except  2  Esd  4  36  where  RV  and  AV 
rightly  give  "Jeremiel  the  archangel"  for  AV  "Uriel 
the  archangel,"  but  elsewhere  known  as  one  of  the 
four  chief  archangels.  He  was  the  angel  who  in- 
structed Ezra  (2  Esd  4  1;  5  20;  10  28).  In  En 
20  2  Uriel  is  the  angel  who  is  "over  the  world  and 
Tartarus"  (6  fTrl  TOV  K6cr/j,ov  Kal  TOV  raprdpov,  ho  cpi 
toil  koymou  kill  toil  tartarou},  and  as  such  is  the 
conductor  to  Enoch  in  the  world  below,  the  secrets 
of  which  he  explains.  Cf  also  (C,r)  19  1;  21  5. 
In  the  (Lat)  "Life  of  Adam  and  Eve,"  48  (ed  W. 
Meyer  in  Abhand,  <l.  Bayer.  Akad.  der  Wiss.,  XIV, 
1878,  250),  Uriel  (Oriel)  accompanied  Michael  when 
at  God's  bidding  he  wrapped  the  bodies  of  Adam 
and  Abel  in  three  linen  sheets  and  buried  them  in 
Paradise.  In  the  lost  "Prayer  of  Joseph"  Uriel  is 
the  angel  who  wrestles  and  converses  with  Jacob 


and  knows  the  secrets  of  heaven  (as  in  En  those  of 
Tartarus),  but  stands  only  8th  in  rank,  whereas  in 
(Gr)  En  20  2  ff  he  is  the  1st  of  the  six  (or  seven) 
archangels.  In  Sib  Or  2  229  he  is  intrusted  with 
the  judgment  of  the  Titans.  Cf  Milton,  Paradise 
Lout,  III,  090,  "regent  of  the  sun,  and  held  the 
sharpest  sighted  Spirit  of  all  in  heaven." 

(2)  "Uriel"  AV  =  RV  and  AVm  "Jeremiel." 

S.  ANGUS 

URIJAH.     See  URIAH,  UHIJAH. 

URIM  AND  THUMMIM,  u'rim  and  thum'im 

(DTGIVn   D'H/lSSn,     ha-urlm    n*ha-tummlm     [art. 
omitted     in     Ezr  2  63;      Neh  7  65], 

1.  Defini-      perhaps  "light  and  perfection,"  as  in- 
tion  tensive  plurals):    Articles   not  specifi- 
cally described,  placed  in  (next  to,  or  on 

[Ileb  'el;  LXX  cpi;  Sam-Heb  V;/[)  the  high  priest's 
breastplate,  called  the  "breast-plate  of  decision" 
(EV  "judgment")  (Ex  28  30;  Lev  8  8).  Their 
possession  was  one  of  the  greatest  distinctions  con- 
ferred upon  the  priestly  family  (Dt  33  8;  Ecclus 
45  10),  and  seems  to  have  been  connected  with  the 
function  of  the  priests  as  the  mouthpiece  of  Jeh,  as 
well  as  with  the  ceremonial  side  of  the  service  (Ex 
28  30;  cf  Arab,  ktihln,  "soothsayer"). 

Through  their  use,  the  nature  of  which  is  a  matter 

of  conjecture,  the  Divine  will  was  sought  in  national 

crises,  and  apparently  the  future  fore- 

2.  Use  in       told,    guilt   or    innocence   established, 
the  OT  and,    according    to    one    theory,    land 

divided  (Jiablta'  Bathra'  122a;  Sanh. 
16a).  Thus,  Joshua  was  to  stand  before  Eleazar 
who  was  to  inquire  for  him  after  the  judgment 
(decision)  of  the  Urim  (Nu  27  21).  It  seems  that 
this  means  was  employed  by  Joshua  in  the  matter  of 
Achan  (Josh  7  14.18)  and  overlooked  in  the  matter 
of  the  Gibeonites  (9  14).  Though  not  specifically 
mentioned,  the  same  means  is  in  all  probability 
referred  to  in  the  accounts  of  the  Israelites  consult- 
ing Jeh  after  the  death  of  Joshua  in  their  warfare 
(Jgs  1_1.2;  20  18.26-28).  The  Danites  in  their 
migration  ask  counsel  of  a  priest,  perhaps  in  a  simi- 
lar manner  (Jgs  18  5.7).  It  is  not  impossible  that 
even  the  prophet  Samuel  was  assisted  by  the  Urim 
in  the  selection  of  a  king  (1  S  10  20-22).  During 
Saul's  war  with  the  Philis,  he  made  inquiry  of  God 
with  the  aid  of  the  priest  (1  S  14  36.37)',  Ahijah, 
the  son  of  Ahitub,  who  at  that  time  wore  the  ephod 
(1  S  14  3).  Although  on  two  important  occasions 
Jeh  refused  to  answer  Saul  through  the  Urim  (1  S 
14  37;  28  6),  it  appears  (from  the  LXX  version  of 
1  S  14  41;  see  below)  that  he  used  the  Urim  and 
Thummim  successfully  in  ascertaining  the  cause  of 
the  Divine  displeasure.  The  accusation  of  Doeg 
and  the  answer  of  the  high  priest  (1  S  22  10.13.15) 
suggest  that  David  began  to  inquire  of  Jeh  through 
the  priesthood,  even  while  he  was  an  officer  of  Saul. 
After  the  massacre  of  the  priests  in  Nob,  Abiathar 
fled  to  the  camp  of  David  (ver  20),  taking  with  him 
the  ephod  (including  apparently  the  Urim  and 
Thummim,  23  6)  which  David  used  frequently 
during  his  wanderings  (23  2-4.9-12;  30  7.8),  and 
also  after  the  death  of  Saul  (2  S  2  1;  5  19.23; 
21  1).  After  the  days  of  David,  prophecy  was  in 
the  ascendancy,  and,  accordingly,  we  find  no  clear 
record  of  the  use  of  the  Urim  and  Thummim  in  the 
days  of  the  later  kings  (cf,  however,  IIos  3  4; 
Ecclus  33  3).  Still,  in  post-exilic  times  we  find 
the  difficult  question  of  the  ancestral  right  of  cer- 
tain priests  to  eat  of  the  most  holy  things  reserved 
till  there  would  stand  up  a  priest  with  Urim  and 
with  Thummim  (Ezr  2  63;  Neh  7  65;  1  Esd  5 
40;  Sotah  48b). 

Though  Jos  sets  the  date  for  the  obsolescence  of 
the  Urim  and  Thummim  at  200  years  before  his 
time,  in  the  days  of  John  Hyrcanus  (Ant,  III, 


3041 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


viii,  9),  the  Talm  reckons  the  Trim  and  Thum- 
inim  among  the  things  lacking  in  the  second  Temple 

(Sotah  9  10;  Ydma'  2lb;  Vru  Kid 
3.  Older  656).  Both  Jos  and  the  Talm  identify 
(Tradition-  the  Urim  and  Thtinunim  with  the 
al)  Views  stones  of  the  breastplate.  The  former 

simply  states  that  the  stones  shone 
whenever  the  sh'khmah  was  present  at  a  sacrifice 
or  when  the  army  proceeded  to  battle. 

"God  declared  beforehand  by  those  twelve  stones 
which  the  high  priest  bare  on  his  breast,  and  which  were 
inserted  into  his  breastplate,  when  they  should  be  vic- 
torious in  battle;  for  so  great  a  splendor  shone  forth 
from  them  before  the  army  begun  to  march,  that  all  the 
people  were  sensible  of  God's  being  present  for  their 
assistance"  (Ant,  III,  viii,  9). 

The  Talmudic  explanation  suggests  that  by  the  illumi- 
nation of  certain  letters  the  Divine  will  was  revealed, 
and  that  in  order  to  have  a  complete  alphabet  in  addi- 
tion to  the  names  of  the  tribes,  the  breastplate  bore  the 
names  of  the  patriarchs,  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  and 
the  words  shibhte  yeshurun,  A  later  scholar  even  sug- 
gests that  the  letters  moved  from  their  places  to  form 
words  (Yrnnd"  73</, M.  Characteristically  enough  the 
lalm  prescribes  rules  and  suggestions  for  the  consul- 
tation of  the  non-existing  I" rim  and  Thummim-  that 
the  one  asking  must  be  a  man  of  public  importance  that 
the  question  must  pertain  to  the  public  weal-  that  the 
priest,  must  face  the  shekhlndh  (west);  that  one  question 
be  asked  at  a  time,  and  so  forth  (ib). 

It  is  difficult  to  tell  just  how  much,  if  anything, 
of  a  lingering  tradition  is  reflected  in  the  view  that 
the  Trim  and  Thummim  and  stones  of  the  breast- 
plate were  identical.  In  the  absence  of  other  an- 
cient clews,  however,  it  is  not  safe  to  reject  even 
the  guesses  of  the  Jews  of  the  second  temple  in 
favor  of  our  own.  We  do  not  even  know  the  mean- 
ing of  the  word  hoshen,  so  confidently  trd  "pouch" 
or  "receptacle"  by  opponents  of  the  older  view,  with- 
out any  basis  whatever.  On  the  other  hand  the 
theory  of  identification  was  widespread.  Even 
Philp  leans  toward  it  in  his  DC  Monarchia,  although 
in  his  Vita  Mosis  (iii)  he  seems  to  have  in  mind  two 
small  symbols  representing  Light  and  Truth  em- 
broidered on  the  cloth  of  the  hoshen  or  hung  round 
the  neck  of  the  high  priest,  'similar  to  the  Egyp 
symbol  of  justice.  Another  very  old  view  is  that 
the  Trim  and  Thummim  consisted  of  a  writiiv 
containing  the  Ineffable  Name  (Pseudo-Jonathan 
on  Ex  28  20;  cf  Rashi  and  Nachmanides  ad 
loc.). 

The  view  most  generally  held  today  is  that  the 
Urim   and   Thummim   were   two   sacred   lots,    one 

indicating  an  affirmative  or  favorable 
4.  Recent  answer,  the  other  a  negative  or  un- 
(Critical)  favorable  answer  (Michaelis,  Ewald, 
Views  Wellhausen,  Robertson  Smith,  Driver, 

G.  F.  Moore,  Kennedy,  Muss-Arnolt).' 
I  he  chief  support  of  this  view  is  found,  not  in  the 
MT,  but  in  the  reconstruction  by  Wellhausen  and 
Driver  of  1  S  14  41  ff  on  the  basis  of  LXX:  "If 
this  fault  be  in  me  or  in  Jonathan,  my  son,  give 
I  rim  [dos  delous],  and  if  it  be  in  thy  people  Israel 
give  Thummim  [dos  hosiotcta]."  The  following  sen- 
tence clearly  suggests  the  casting  of  lots,  possiblv 
lots  on  which  the  names  of  Saul  and  Jonathan  were 
written,  and  "Jonathan"  was  taken.  Efforts  have 
been  made  to  support  the  view  that  the  Trim 
and  Thummim  themselves  were  sacred  lots  on  the 
basis  of  analogous  customs  among  other  peoples 
(e.g.  pre-Islamic  Arabs  [Moore  in  EH]  and  Babylo- 
nians [W.  Muss-Arnolt  in  Jew  Enc  and  AJSL 
July,  1900]).  It  must  be  borne  in  mind,  however' 
that  whatever  the  lot-theory  has  to  recommend  it' 
it  is  inconsistent  not  only  with  the  post-Bib  tradi- 
tions, but  also  with  the  Bib.  data.  For  those  who 
are  not  inclined  to  give  much  weight  to  the  passages 
connecting  the  Urim  and  Thummim  with  the  high 
priests  apparel  (Ex  28  30;  Lev  8  8,  both  "P") 
there  is  of  course  no  difficulty  in  dissociating  the 
two,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  for  the  use  of  this 


Drias 
Usury 

system  of  divination  the  one  thing  necessary  in  the 
historical  passages  on  which  they  rely  seems  to  be 
the  ephod.  Still,  if  we  are  to  think  of  two  lots  one 
called  and  possibly  marked  "Trim"  and  the  other 
"Thummim,"  it,  is  difficult,  to  get  any  meaning  from 
the  statement  (1  S  14  37;  28  (i)  thai  Jeh  did  not 
answer  Saul  on  certain  occasions,  unless  indeed  we 
surmise  for  the  occasion  the  existence  of  a  third 
nameless  blank  lot,  A  more  serious  difficulty  arises 
from  the  fact  that  the  answers  ascribed  to  the  Trim 
and  Thummim  are  not  always  the  equivalent  of 
"yes"  or  "no"  (cf  Jgs  1  2;  20  IS;  1  S  22  10;  2  S 
5  23;  21  1),  even  if  we  omit  from  consideration 
the  instances  where  an  individual  is  apparently 
pointed  out  from  all  Israel  (cf  the  instances  of  the 
detection  of  Achan  and  the  selection  of  Saul  with 
that  of  Jonathan,  above). 

If  we  turn  to  etymology  for  assistance,  we  are  not 
only  on  uncertain  ground,  but  when  Bab  and  other 

foreign  words  are  brought  in  to  bolster 

up  a  theory  about  anything  so  little 
mology  understood  as  the  Trim  and  Thummim, 

we   are   on  dangerous   ground.     Thus 
Muss-Arnolt  is  ready  with  Bab  words  (urtn,  "com- 
mand,"  and   taimlu,   "oracular  decision");    others 
suggest  line,  the  Egyp  image  of  justice;   still  others 
connect   Urim  with  'arar,   "to  curse,"  in  order  to 
make   it   an   antonym  of  tumnrim,  "fault lessness  " 
It  is  generally  admitted,  however,  that,  as  pointed 
in  the  AIT,  the  words  mean  "light"  and  "perfection  " 
on  the  basis  of  which  the  Talm  (Ydma'  736)  as  well 
as  most  of  the  Gr  VSS  tr'1  them  (delosis  kai  atttheia- 
photismoi   kai  teleiotetes) ,  although  Symmachus  in 
one  place  (Dt  33  S),  who  is  followed  by  the  Vulg 
connects  I'rim  with  the  word    Tdrah  and  under- 
stands it  to  mean  "doctrine"  (telciotes  kai  didachf) 
1  hough  loth  to  add  to  the  already  overburdened 
list  of  conjectures  about  these  words,  it  appears  to 
the  present  writer  that  if  Urim  and  Thummim  are 
antonyms,   and  Urim  means   "light,"   it  is  by  no 
means  difficult  to  connect  Thummim  with  darkness 
inasmuch  as  there  is  a  host  of  Heb  sterns  based  oii 
the  root  -lm,  all  indicating  concealing,  closing  up 
and   even   darkness    (cf   Z'JS  ,  C'jn     Zm     EPS  ' 
nttI3,  -jr-J   [see  Job  40  13],   nr.O  and  even  CEP 
and  cognate  Arab,  words  in  BDB).     This  explana- 
tion would  make  Urim  and  Thummim  mean  "illunii- 

'f/e(J''  and  "dai*"  <('f  9asfcer  m  Hastings,  ERE, 
IV,  813),  and,  while  fitting  well  with  the  ancient 
theories  or  traditions,  would  not  be  excluded  by 
the  recent  theory  of  lots  of  opposite  purport. 

NATHAN  ISAACS 

USURY,  uzhu-ri:     The  Heb  law  concerning  ex- 
action   of    interest  upon   loans  was  very  humane. 

Hebrews  were  to  lend  to  their  brethren 
1.  In  the  without  interest  (Ex  22  25-  Lev  25 
OT  36  f;  Dt2319f).  This,  'however, 

did  not  apply  to  a  stranger  (Dt  23  20)' 
Two  stems  are  used  in  the  OT,  rendered  in  AV 
"usury,"  in  RV  better  rendered  "interest":  (1) 
vb.  mp3,  nashah  (Ex  22  25;  Isa  24  2;  Jer  15  10), 
and  the  noun  form,  XIB'E  ,  mashsha'  (Xeh  5  7.10); 
(2)  a  stronger  and  more  picturesque  word,  -pp:  , 
nashakh,  "to  bite,"  "to  vex,"  and  so  "to  lend  o'n 
interest"  (Dt  23  19.20);  noun  form  ![T»: ,  m-shi-kh 
(Ex  22  25;  Lev  25  3(5  f ;  Pa  16  5;  P'rov  28  8- 
Ezk  18  8.13.17;  22  12).  It  would  be  easy  to  go 
:rom  a  fair  rate  of  interest  to  an  unfair  rate,  as  seen 
in  the  history  of  the  word  "usury,"  which  has  come 
to  mean  an  exorbitant  or  unlawful  interest,  Abuses 
arose  during  the  exile.  Nehemiah  forced  the  people 
after  the  return  to  give  back  exactions  of  "one  hun- 
dredth," or  1  per  cent  monthly  which  they  took 
from  their _ brethren  (Xeh  5  l()f;  cf  Ezk  22  12). 
A  good  citizen  of  Zion  is  one  who  put  not  out  his 


Uta 
Uzziah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3042 


money  1o  usury   (Ps  15  5).     One  who   is    guilty  ol 
this  comes  to  disaster  (Prov  28  S). 

Tlic  (lr  word  is  r6/oos,  frJAvw,  lit.  "offspring,"  inter- 
est   springing  out  of  the  principal.      Money  lenders 
were    numerous    among    the    Jews    in 
2.  In  the        Christ's  day,  and,  in  the  parable  of  the 
NT  Talents,  lie  represents  the  lord  of  the 

unprofitable   servant   as   rebuking   the 
sloth  in  the  words,   "I  should  have  received  mine 
own  with  interest"   (Mt  25  27;    Lk  19  23  RV). 
EDWARD  BAOBY  POLLARD 

UTA,  u'ta  (Oi>ra.,()ut('t):  "The  sons  of  I'ta"  re- 
turned with  Zerubbabel  (I  Esd  5  :«)) ;  wanting 
in  the  Ezr  2  45;  Neh  7  IS. 

UTHAI,  u'-thi,  u'tha-i  (T^ ,  'uthay,  meaning 
uncertain): 

(1)  A  descendant  of  Judah,  of  the  clan  of  Perez 
(1  Ch  9  4)  =  "Athaiah"  of  Neh  11  4. 

(2)  Son  of  Bigvai  (Ezr  8   14);    called  "Uthi"  in 
1   Esd  8  40. 

UTHI,  u'thl  (A,  Ov9i,  Outhi,  B,  OVTOV,  Ouloii): 
One  of  the  sons  of  Bago  (Bigvai)  who  returned  at 
the  head  of  his  family  with  Ezra  (1  Esd  8  40)  = 
"I'thai"  of  K/.r  8  14. 

UTMOST,  ut'mdst,  UTTERMOST,  ut'er-most, 
SEA.  See  MEDITERRANEAN  SEA. 

UTTERMOST,  ul'er-m5st:  A  pleonastic  com- 
pound of  a  comparative  ("utter";  cf  "outer")  and 
a  superlative  ("most"),  in  AV  used  interchange- 
ably with  the  ordinary  superlative  forms  "utmost" 
(cf  Mt  12  42;  Lk  11  31)  and  "outmost"  (cf  Ex 
26  4.10).  HV  adds  still  another  form,  "outer- 
most," in  2  K  7  5.S  (AV  "uttermost").  RV  has 
made  a  few  changes  to  secure  a  more  accurate 
tr  (Jer  9  20;  Joel  2  20,  etc)  or  to  give  uniformity 
(Ex  26  4;  Alt  5  20;  12  42,  etc),  but  for  the  most 
part  has  left  AV  undisturbed. 

uz,  uz  cpy,  x,  r"  T"3¥»  'm'f  ''<f-'  "ns>  ('-"' 

"£!£,  Ox,  Avo-iTis,  A  itsitis) : 

(1)  In  Gen  10  2)5  Uz  is  the  eldest,  son  of  Aram 
and  grandson  of  Shem,  while  in   1   Ch   1   17   \'z  is 

the  son  of  Shem.  LXX  inserts  a 
Biblical  passage  which  supplies  this  lacking 

Data  name.  As  the  tables  of  the  nations 

in  Gen  10  are  chiefly  geographical  and 
ethnographical,  Uz  seems  to  have  been  the  name 
of  a  district  or  nation  colonized  by  or  descended 
from  Semites  of  the  Aramaean  tribe  or  family. 

(2)  The    son    of    Nahor   by    Milcah,    and    elder 
brother  of    Buz    (Gen     2  21)".     Here   the   name   is 
doubtless  personal  and  refers  to  an  individual  who 
was   head    of   a   clan   or   tribe   kindred    to   that   of 
Abraham. 

(:$)  A  son  of  Dishan,  son  of  Seir  the  Horite  (Gen 
36  2S),  and  personal  name  of  a  Horite  or  perhaps 
of  mixed  Horite  and  Aramaean  blood. 

(4)  The  native  land  and  home  of  Job  (Job  1   1), 
and  so  situated  as  to  be  in  more  or  less  proximity 
to  the  tribe  of  the  Temanites  (2  11),  the  Shuhites 
(2  11),  the  Naamathites  (2  11),  the  Buzites  (32  2), 
and  open  to  the  inroads  of  the  Chaldaeans  (1  17), 
and  the  Sabaeans  (1  15  RV),  as  well  as  exposed  to 
the  great  Arabian  Desert  (1  19).      See  next  article. 

(5)  A  kingdom  of  some  importance  somewhere  in 
Southern  Syria  and  not  far  from  Judaea,  having  a 
number  of  kings  (Jer  25  20). 

(6)  A  kingdom,  doubtless  the  same  as  that  of 
Jer  25  20  and  inhabited  by  or  in  subjection  to  the 
Edomites    (Lam  4  21),    and    hence    not    far    from 
Edom.  JAMES  JOSIAH  REEVE 


UZ  ("py  ,  'vtf;  LXX  Avo-ifis,  Aits-itis;  Vulg  Auxi- 
//.s):  The  home  of  the  patriarch  Job  (Job  1  1;  Jer 
25  20,  "all  the  kings  of  the  land  of  Uz";  Lam  4  21, 
"(laughter  of  Edom,  that,  dwellest  in  the  land  of 
IV).  The  land  of  Uz  was,  no  doubt,  the  pasturing- 
ground  inhabited  by  one  of  the  tribes  of  that  name, 
if  indeed  there;  be  more  than  one  tribe  intended. 
The  following  are  the  determining  data  occurring  in 
the  Book  of  Job.  The  country  was  subject  to  raids 
by  Chaldaeans  and  Sabaeans  (1  15.17);  Job's  three 
friends  were  a  Temanite,  a  Naamathite  and  a  Shu- 
hit  e  (2  11);  Elihu  was  a  Bu/.ite  (32  2);  and  Job 
himself  is  called  one  of  the  children  of  the  East 
(Ketllte.m).  The  Chaldaeans  (kaxduit,  descendants  of 
Chesed,  son  of  Nahor,  Gen  22  22)  inhabited  Meso- 
potamia; a  branch  of  the  Sabaeans  also  appears 
to  have  taken  up  its  abode  in  Northern  Arabia  (see 
SHEBA).  Teman  (Gen  36  11)  is  often  synonymous 
with  Edom.  The  meaning  of  the  designation  Na- 
amathite is  unknown,  but  Shuah  was  a  son  of 
Keturah  the  wife  of  Abraham  (Gen  25  2),  and  so 
connected  with  Nahor.  Shuah  is  identified  with 
Suhu,  -mentioned  by  Tiglath-pileser  1  as  lying  one 
day's  journey  from  Carchemish;  and  a  "land  of 
I'zza"  is  named  by  Shalmaneser  II  as  being  in  the 
same  neighborhood.  Buz  is  a  brother  of  Uz  ("Huz," 
Gen  22  21)  and  son  of  Nahor.  Esar-haddon,  in  an 
expedition  toward  the  W.,  passed  through  Bazu 
and  Hazu,  no  doubt  the  same  tribes.  Abraham 
sent  his  children,  other  than  Isaac  (so  including 
Shuah),  "eastward  to  the  land  of  Kcdhetn"  (Gen  25 
0).  These  factors  point  to  the  land  of  Uz  as  lying 
somewhere  to  the  N.E.  of  Pal.  Tradition  supports 
su«h  a  site.  Jos  says  'Tz  founded  Trachonitis 
and  Damascus"  (Ant,  I,  vi,  4).  Arabian  tradition 
places  the  scene  of  Job's  sufferings  in  the  Haunin 
at  Dcir  Eiynh  (Job's  monastery)  near  Nawa. 
There  is  a  spring  there,  which  he  made  to  flow  by 
striking  the  rock  with  his  foot  (Koran  38^41),  and 
his  tomb.  The  passage  in  the  Koran  is,  however, 
also  made  to  refer  to  Job's  Well  (cf  JERUSALEM). 

LITERATURE.—  Talm  of  Jcru.s-  (Fr.  tr  by  M.  Schwab. 
VII  28'))  contains  a  discussion  of  the  date  of  Job;  Le 
Strange,  'Pal  under  the  Moth-mx,  220-13:?.  427,  515. 

THOMAS  HUNTER  WEIR 

UZAI,  ii'zl,  u'za-I  pTIS ,  'uznij,  meaning  un- 
known): Father  of  Palal  (Neh  3  25). 

UZAL,  ii'zal  ('"pX ,  'iizdl):  Sixth  son  of  Joktan 
(Gen  10  27;  1  Ch  1  21).  Uzal  as  the  name  of  a 
place  perhaps  occurs  in  Ezk  27  10.  RV  reads, 
"  Vedan  and  Javan  traded  with  yarn  for  thy  wares." 
Here  an  obscure  verbal  form,  me'uzzal,  is  taken 
to  mean  "something  spun,"  "yarn."  But  with  a 
very  slight  change  we  may  read  me'uzal=*"irom 

The  name  is  identical  with  the  Arab.  *Auzal,  the 
old  capital  of  Yemen,  later  called  $on'a'.  San*tf 
is  described  as  standing  high  above  sea-level  m_a 
fertile  land,  and  traversed  by  a  river  bed  which  in 
the  rainy  season  becomes  a  torrent.  Under  the 
Himyarite  dynasty  it  succeeded  Zafar  as  the  resi- 
dence of  the  Tubba's.  If  it  is  the  same  place  as  the 
Audzara  or  Ausara  of  the  classics,  it  is  clear  why 
Arab,  geographers  dwell  upon  its  great  antiquity. 
The  most  celebrated  feature  of  the  town  was  Ghuin- 
dan,  an  immense  palace,  the  building  of  which  tradi- 
tion ascribes  to  Shorahbil,  the  Oth  known  king  of  the 
Himyarites.  According  to  Ibn  Khaldoun  this 
building  had  four  fronts  in  color  red,  white,  yellow 
and  green  respectively.  In  the  midst  rose  a  tower 
of  seven  stories,  the  topmost  being  entirely  of  marble 
(Caussin  de  Perceval,  Essai,  II,  75).  In  the  7th 
cent.  AD  the  town  became  the  capital  of  the  Zauhte 
Imams,  and  the  palace  was  destroyed  toward  the 
middle  of  that  century  by  order  of  the  caliph  Oth- 
man.  A.  S.  FULTON 


3043 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Uta 
Uzziah 


UZZA,  uz'a,  UZZAH,  uz'a  (~T7 ,  'uzarl/i  [2  S  6 
6-8],  otherwise  XT7  ,  'wzzd',  meaning  uncertain): 

(1)  One  of  those  who  accompanied  the  ark  on 
its  journey  from  Kiriath-jearim  toward  David's  cita- 
del (2  S  6  3-8,  "Uzzah"  =  l  Ch  13  7-11,  "Uzza"). 
From  the  text  of  2  S  6  3-8,  as  generally  corrected 
with  the  help  of  LXX,  it  is  supposed  that  Uzzah 
walked  by  the  side  of  the  ark  while  Ahio  (or  "his 
brother")   went  in   front  of  it.     The  word   which 
describes  what  happened  to  the  oxen  is  variously 
tr'1;    RV  has  "stumbled";    others  render  it,  "They 
let   the   oxen   slip,"   "The  oxen  shook    [the   ark]." 
I'zzah,  whatever  it  be  that  took  place,  caught  hold 
of  the  ark;    something  else  happened,  and   I'zzah 
died  on  the  spot.     If  the  word  tr'1  "rashness"  (RVm) 
in  ver  7  (not  "error"  as  EV)  is  to  be  kept  in  the  text 
Uzzah  would  be  considered  guilty  of  too  little  rever- 
ence for  the  ark;   but  the  words  "for  [his]  rashness" 
are   wanting    in    LXX    B,    while    1  Ch  13  10   has 
"because  he  put  forth  his  hand  to  the  ark,"  and 
further  no  such  Ileb  word  as  we  find  here  is  known 
to  us.     The  older  commentators  regarded  the  death 
as  provoked  by  non-observance  of  the  provisions 
about  the  ark  as  given  in  t  he  Pent,  but  it  is  generally 
believed    today    that    these    were    not    known    in 
David's  time. 

What  is  clear  is  that  Uzzah's  act  led  to  an  acci- 
dent of  some  kind,  and  the  event  was  regarded  by 
David  as  inauspicious,  so  that  the  journey  with  the 
ark  was  discontinued.  We  know  how  the  OT 
writers  represent  events  as  due  to  Divine  inter- 
vention where  we  would  perhaps  discern  natural 
causers. 

(2)  The  garden  of  Uzza  (2  K  21  18.26).     Manas- 
seh  the  king  is  said  (ver  18)  to  have  been  "buried  in 
the  garden  of  his  own  house,  in  the  garden  of  I'zza"; 
and  Amon  (ver  26)  "was  buried  in  his  sepulchre  in 
the  garden  of  Uzza."     It  has  been  suggested  that 
"  Uzza"  =  "Uzziah"     (<"^-7^  ,     '«zztya/0  =  "Azariah" 
(cf  2  K  15  1-6).     The 'garden  of  Manasseh  would 
then  be  identical  with  that  of  Uzziah,  by  whom  it 
was    originally    laid    out.     2  Ch  33  20    does    not 
mention  the  garden. 

(3)  Son  of  Shimei,  a  Merarite  (1  Ch  6  29   [Heb 
14]),  RV  "Uzzah,"  AV  "Uzza." 

(4)  A  descendant  of  Ehud,  and  head  of  a  Ben- 
jamite  family   (1  Ch  8  7,   "Uzza").     Hogg,   JQR, 
102  ff  (1893)   (see  Curtis,   Chron.,   1-56-59),  finds  a 
proper  name  "Iglaam"  in  ver  6,  and  so  reads  "and 
Iglaam  begat  Uzza  and  Ahishahar." 

(5)  Head   of   a   Nethinim   family   that   returned 
from   Babylon   (Ezr  2  49)  =  "Uzza"   of   Neh  7  51. 

DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 

UZZEN-SHEERAH,  uz'en-she'd-ra  (fnsip  ]*$ , 
'uzzen  shverfih;  LXX,  instead  of  a  place-name, 
reads  K<xl  vioi  'O£dv  2«T]pa.,  kni  huioi  Ozdn,  ticerd, 
"and  the  sons  of  Ozan,  Srieera";  AV  Uzzen-sherah, 
u.-she'ra) :  As  it  st  amis  in  MT  this  is  the  name  of  a 
town  built  by  Sheerah,  daughter  of  Ephraim,  to 
whom  is  attributed  also  the  building  of  the  two 
Beth-horons  (1  Ch  7  24).  No  satisfactory  identi- 
fication has  been  proposed.  LXX  suggests  that 
the  text  may  have  been  tampered  with. 

UZZI,  uz'i  P'y ,  *uzzi,  perhaps  "my  strength"): 

(1)  A  descendant  of  Aaron  and  high  priest,  un- 
known  apart   from    these   sources    (1  Ch  6  5.6.51 
[Heb  5  31.32;    6  36];    Ezr  7  4). 

(2)  An  eponym  of  a  family  of  Issachar  (1  Ch  7 
2.3). 

(3)  Head  of  a  Benjamite  family  (I   Ch  7  7),  or 
more  probably  of  a  Zebulunite  family  (see  Curtis, 
Chron.,  145-49). 

(4)  Father   of    Elah,    a    Benjamite    (1  Ch  9  8), 
perhaps  the  same  as  (5). 


(5)  A  son  of  Bani  and  overseer  of  the  Levites  in 
Jerus  (Neh  11  22). 

(())  Head  of  the  priestly  family  of  Jedaiah  (Neh 
12  19.42).  DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 

UZZIA,  u-zl'a  (X^'T?  ,  *nzzlyd',  "my  strength  is 
Jeh";  see  UZZIAH):  An  Ashterathite  and  one  of 
David's  mighty  men  (1  Ch  11  44). 


UZZIAH,  u-zl'a,  67>-zl'a  fAZARIAH) 
*uzzlyah  [2  K  15  13.30;  Hos  1  1;  Am  1  1;  Zee 
14  5],  *rP-T2,  *uzzi!jahii  [2  K  15  32.34;  Isa 
11;  6  1;  Yl;  2  Ch  26  1  fT;  27  2];  also  called 
nTjy,  '(tzaryah  [2  K  14  21;  15  1.7;  1  Ch  3 
12],  irVnT?,  *dzaryahii  [2  K  15  6.S];  'A£apias, 
Aztirias,  in  K,  elsewhere;  '0£ias,  OZ'KIS;  the  sig- 
nifications of  the  names  are  similar,  the  former 
meaning  "my  strength  is  Jeh";  the  latter,  "Jeh 
has  helped."  It  has  been  thought  that  the  form 
"Uzziah"  may  have  originated  by  corruption  from 
the  other.  The  history  of  tin;  reign  is  given  in  2 
K  15  1-8  and  2  Ch  26): 

Uzziah   or   Azariah,    son   of   Amaziah,    and    llth 

king  of  Judah,  came  to  the  throne  at  the  age  of  16. 

The  length  of  his  reign  is  given  as  52 

1.  Acces-       years.     The     chronological     questions 
sion  raised  by   this  statement   are   consid- 

ered below.  His  accession  may  here 
be  provisionally  dated  in  783  BC.  His  father 
Amaziah  had  met  his  death  by  popular  violence; 
(2  K  14  19),  but  Uzziah  seems  to  have  been  the 
free  and  glad  choice  of  the  people  (2  Ch  261). 

The  unpopularity  of  his  father,  owing  to  a  great 
military  disaster,  must  ever  have  been  present  to 

the  mind  of  Uzziah,  and  early  in  his 

2.  Foreign     reign   he   undertook    and    successfully 
Wars  carried  through  an  expedition  against 

his  father's  enemies  of  20  years  before, 
only  extending  his  operations  over  a  wider  area. 
The  Edomit.es,  Philis  and  Arabians  were,  succes- 
sively subdued  (these  being  members  of  a  confeder- 
acy which,  in  an  earlier  reign,  had  raided  Jerus  and 
nearly  extirpated  the  royal  family,  2  Ch  21  16; 
22  1);  the  port  of  Eloth,  at  the  head  of  the  Red 
Sea,  was  restored  to  Judah,  and  the  city  rebuilt 
(2  K  14  22;  2  Ch  26  2);  the  walls  of  certain 
hostile  towns,  Oath,  Jabneh  and  Ashdod,  were 
razed  to  the  ground,  and  the;  inhabitants  of  Gur-baal 
and  Maan  were  reduced  to  subjection  (2  Ch  26  6.7). 
Even  the  Ammonites,  E.  of  the  Jordan,  paid  tribute 
to  Uzziah,  and  "his  name  spread  abroad  even  to 
the  entrance  to  Egypt;  for  he  waxed  exceeding 
strong"  (ver  8). 

Uzziah  next  turned  his  attention  to  securing  the 
defences  of  his  capital  and  country.     The  walls  of 

Jerus    were    strengthened    by    towers 

3.  Home        built  at  the  corner  gate,  at  the  valley 
Defences       gate,  and  at  an  angle  in  the  wall  (see 

plan  of  Jerus  in  the  writer's  Second 
Temple  in  Jerw.s)  ;  military  stations  were  also  formed 
in  Philistia,  and  in  the  wilderness  of  the  Negeb,  and 
these  were  supplied  with  the  necessary  cisterns  for 
rain  storage  (vs  6.10).  The  little  realm  had  now 
an  extension  and  prosperity  to  which  it  had  been  a 
stranger  since  the  days  of  Solomon. 

These  successes  came  so  rapidly  that  Uzziah  had 
hardly  passed  his  40th  year  when  a  great  personal 

calamity  overtook  him.     In  the  earlier 

4.  Uzziah's    part  of  his  career  Uzziah  had  enjoyed 
Leprosy  and  profited  by  the  counsels  of  Zech- 
and  Re-          ariah,  a  man  "who  had  understanding 
tirement         in   the   vision   of   God"    (2  Ch  26  5), 

and  during  the  lifetime  of  this  godly 
monitor  "he  set  himself  to  seek  God."  Now  it 
happened  to  him  as  with  his  grandfather  Jehoash, 
who,  so  long  as  his  preserver  Jehoiada  lived,  acted 


Uzziel 

Vanity,  Vanities 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3044 


admirably,  but,  when  he  died,  behaved  like  an 
ingrate,  and  slew  his  son  (2  K  12  2;  2  Ch  24  2. 
22).  So  now  that  Zechariah  was  gone,  I'zziah's 
heart  was  lifted  up  in  pride,  and  he  trespassed  against 
.Jeh.  In  the  great  kingdoms  of  the  East,  the  kings 
had  been  in  the  habit  of  exercising  priestly  as  well 
as  royal  functions.  Elated  with  his  prosperity, 
Uzziah  determined  to  exercise  what  he  may  have 
thought  was  his  royal  prerogative  in  burning  in- 
cense on  the  golden  altar  of  the  temple.  Azariah 
the  high  priest,  with  SO  others,  offered  stout  remon- 
strance; but  the  king  was  only  wroth,  and  pressed 
forward  with  a  censer  in  his  hand,  to  offer  the  in- 
cense. Ere,  however,  he1  could  scatter  the  incense 
on  the  coals,  and  while  yet  in  anger,  the  white  spots 
of  leprosy  showed  themselves  upon  his  forehead. 
Smitten  in  conscience,  and  thrust  forth  by  the 
priests,  he  hastened  away,  and  was  a  leper  ever 
after  (2  Ch  26  Ki-21). 

I'zziah's  public:  life  was  now  ended.  In  his  (Mi- 
forced  privacy,  he  may  still  have  occupied  himself 
with  his  cattle  and  agricultural  operations,  "for 
he  loved  husbandry''  (2  Ch  26  10);  but  his  work 
in  the  government  was  over.  Both  K  and  Ch  state 
in  nearly  identical  words:  "Jotham  the  king's  son 
was  over  the  household,  judging  the  people  of  the 
land"  (2  K  15  5;  2  Ch  26  21).  Works  of  the 
same  kind  as  those  undertaken  by  I'zziah,  viz. 
building  military  stations  in  the  hills  and  forests  of 
Judah,  repairing  the  walls  of  city  and  temple,  etc, 
are  attributed  to  Jotham  (2  Ch  27  3  ff ) ;  the  truth 
being  that  Jotham  continued  and  completed  the 
enterprises  his  father  had  undertaken. 

The  chronology  of  the  reign  of   U/.ziah  presents  pe- 
culiar difficulties,    sonic   of   which,    probably,   cannot   be 
satisfactorily   solved.      Reckoning   upward 
5.   Chro-          from  the  fall  of  Samaria  in  721   J5C'.   the 

n'rvlr-CTT,   nt  I5il)-     (lilta     Would     Suggest     7f)9     aS     tllO     first 

noiogy  0  V(,ap  <)f  ,j(),|iain.      If.   as   is   now   generally 

Reign  conceded,      .Jotham's      regnal      years      are 

reckoned  from  the  commencement  of  his 
regency,  when  his  father  had  been  stricken  with  leprosy, 
and  if,  as  synchronisms  seem  to  indicate.  Uzziah  was 
about  40  years  of  age  at  this  time,  we  are  brought  for 
the  year  of  l"x/iah's  accession  to  7s:j.  His  death,  52 
years  later,  would  occur  in  731.  (On  the  other  hand,  it 
is  known  that  Isaiah,  whose;  call  was  in  the  year  of  Uz- 
ziah's  death,  Tsa  6  1,  was  already  exercising  his  min- 
istry in  the  reign  of  .lotham,  Isa  1  1.)  Another  note  of 
time  is  furnished  by  the  statement  that  the  earliest 
utterance  of  Amos  the  prophet  was  "two  years  before 


the  earthquake"  (Am  1  1).  This  earthquake,  we  are 
told  by  Zechariah,  was  "in  the  days  of  Uzziah,  king  of 
Judah"  (Zee  14  5).  Jos  likewise  embodies  a  tradition 
that  the  earthquake  occurred  at  the  moment  of  the 
king's  entry  into  the  temple  (Anl,  IX,  x,  4).  Indubi- 
tably the  name  of  Uzziah  was  associated  in  the  popular 
mind  with  this  earthquake.  If  the  prophecy  of  Amos 
was  uttered  a  year  or  two  before  Jeroboam's  death,  and 
this  is  placed  in  750  BO.  we  are  brought  near  to  the  date 
already  given  for  Uzziah's  leprosy  (Jeroboam's  date  is 
put  lower  by  others). 

In  2  K  15  I'zziah  is  referred  to  as  giving  data 
for  the  accessions  of  the  northern  kings  (ver  X, 
Zechariah;  ver  13,  Shallum;  ver  17,  Menahem; 
ver  23,  Pekahiah;  ver  27,  Pekahj,  but  it  is  difficult 
to  fit  these  synchronisms  into  any  scheme  of  chro- 
nology, if  taken  as  regnal  years.  I'zziah  is  men- 
tioned as  the  father  of  Jotham  in  2  K  15  32.34; 
2  Ch  27  2,  and  as  the  grandfather  of  Ahaz  in  Isa 
7  1.  He  was  living  when  Isaiah  began  his  ministry 
(Isa  1  1;  6  1);  when  Hosea  prophesied  (Hos  1  1); 
and  is  the  king  in  whose  reign  the  afore-mentioned 
earthquake  took  place  (Zee  14  f>).  His  name  occurs 
in  the  royal  genealogies  in  1  Ch  3  11  and  Mt  1  8.9. 
The  place  of  his  entombment,  owing  to  his  having 
been  a  leper,  was  not  in  the  sepulchers  of  the  kings, 
but  "in  the  garden  of  Fzza"  (2  K  21  26;  cf  2  Ch 
26  23).  Isaiah  is  stated  to  have  written  a  life  of 
I'zziah  (2  Ch  26  22).  W.  SHAW  CALDECOTT 

UZZIEL,  u-zi'el,  uz'i-el,  do'zi-el  (S^P"? ,  *uzz?el, 
"El  [Clod]  is  my  strength"): 

(1)  A    "son"    of    Kohath    (Ex  6  IS. 22;     Lev  10 
4;  Xu  3  10.30;   1  Ch  6  2.1S  [Heb  5  2S;    6  3];  15 
10;  23  12.20;  24  24),  called  in  Lev  10  4  "uncle  of 
Aaron."     The  family  is  called  Uzzielites  C'bsjP-tS'n  , 
htfuzzl'cll  [coll.l)  in  Nu  3  27;    1  Ch  26  23. 

(2)  A  Simeonite  captain  (1  Ch  4  42). 

(3)  Head  of  a  Benjamite  (or  according  to  Curtis 
a  Zebulunite)  family  (1   Ch  7  7). 

(4)  A  Hemanite  musician  (1  Ch  25  4);   LXX  B 
has  '  \fafia-/i\,  Azarael  ="Azarel,"  the  name  given  in 
ver  IS.     See  AZARKL. 

(f>)  A  Levite  "son"  of  Jeduthun  (2  Ch  29   14). 

(6)  A  goldsmith  who  joined  in  repairing  the  wall 
of  Jerus  (Xeh  3  X). 

(7)  The    reading    of     LXX    ('OflTjX,    Ozitl)    for 
Jahaziel  in  1   Ch  23  19.     See  JAHAZIEL,  (3). 

DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 


V 


VAGABOND,  vag'a-bond  (~fl'.  ,  nililh,  "to 
wander")  :  The  word  is  used  in  the  curse  pronounced 
on  Cain  ((Jen  4  12.14).  RV  substitutes  in  each 
case  "wanderer,"  but  in  Ps  109  10  it  retains  "vaga- 
bonds." "Vagabond  Jews"  (Tr(p^pxo/J.a.i,  />cri<'r<iu>- 
mai;  RV  "strolling  Jews")  were  persons  who  traveled 
about  as  professional  exorcists  (Acts  19  13). 


VAHEB,  va'heb  pPV)  ,  iraheMt;  Z<o6p,  Zo6b): 
The  name  occurs  in  a  quotation  from  the  book  of 
the  Wars  of  Jeh  in  Xu  21  14.  See  SUPUAII.  It 
was  apparently  in  Amorite  territory.  It  is  not 
identified. 

VAIL,  val.     See  VEIL. 

VAIN,  van:  The;  adj.  of  "vanity,"  and  represent- 
ing the  same  Heb  and  (Jr  words  as  does  the  latter, 
with  a  few  additions  (chiefly  Kec6s,  koios,  "empty," 
and  its  compounds  in  the  XT).  And  "vain"  can 
always  be  replaced  by  its  synonym  "empty,"  often 
with  advantage  in  modern  Eng.  (Job  15  2;  1  Cor 
15  14,  etc).  The  exception  is  the  phrase  "in  vain," 
and  even  there  the  interchange  can  be  made  if  some 
(understood)  noun  such  as  "ways"  be  added.  So 


"to  take  God's  name  in  vain"  (Ex  20  7;  Dt  5  11) 
means  simply  to  take  it  for  an  "empty"("not  good") 
purpose. 

VAINGLORY,  van-gld'ri  (K«vo8of;Ca,  kenodoxin): 
"Vainglory"  is  the  tr  of  kcnodoxia,  "empty  glory" 
or  "pride,"  nearly  akin  to  vanity  in  the  modern  sense 
(Phil  2  3).  Kctiodoxos  is  "vainglorious"  (Gal  6 
2(>,  "Let  us  not  be  desirous  of  vainglory,"  RV 
"Let  us  not  become  vainglorious").  In  1  Jn  2  16 
RV  has  "the  vainglory  of  life"  (alazoneia  tou  biou) 
for  "the  pride  of  life";  cf  Jas  4  16,  "Ye  glory  in 
your  vauntings"  (alazoneia).  Kcnodoxia  is  trd 
"vainglory"  (Wiscl  14  14,  "For  by  the  vain  glory  of 
men  they  [idols]  entered  into  the  world,"  RV  "vain- 
glorionsness");  alazoneia  occurs  in  Wiscl  5  X,  trd 
"vaunting."  "Pride  is  applicable  to  every  object, 
good  or  bad,  high  or  low,  small  or  great;  vanity  is 
applicable  only  to  small  objects;  pride  is  therefore 
good  or  had;  vanity  is  always  bad;  it  is  always 
emptiness  or  nothingness"  (Crabb,  English  8yno- 
nymes).  W.  L.  WALKER 

VAIZATHA,  yl'za-tha,  va-iz'a-tha,  VAJEZATHA, 
va-jez'a-tha,  vaj-6-za'tha  (XPPI ,  ivayzathd'):  One 


3045 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Uzziel 

Vanity,  Vanities 


of  the  sons  of  Hainan  (Est  9  9).  Tho  form  has 
boon  held  to  he  corrupt,  (lie  "I  (ir)  being  exception- 
ally long,  and  the  T  (z)  exceptionally  short-  (Herifey, 
Die  pcrsischen  Keilinschriftcn  [1847],  XVI11,  93), 
and  points  to  Vahynzilntn,  "(liven  of  the  Best-One" 
(OHL,  255). 

VALE,  vfd,  VALLEY,  val'i: 

(1)  X?3  ,  yny  ;  either  absolute:    "from  Bamoth  to 
the  valley  that  is  in  the  field  of  Moab"  (Nu  21  20)  ; 
or  with  a  proper  name:    "valley  of  Hinnom,"  also 
"valley  of  the  son  of  Hinnom"  (Josh  16  8)  ;  "vallev 
of  Slaughter"  (Jer  7  32);    "valley  of  Zeboim"  (1  S 
13  18);"valleyofZephathah"(2  Ch  14  10);  "valley 
of  Hamon-gog"  (Ezk  39   11);  "valley  of  Iphtah-el" 
(Josh  19  14)  ;  "valley  of  the  mountains"  (Zee  14  5j; 
"Valley  of  Salt"    (2  S  8  13);     "valley   of   vision" 
(Isa  22  1);    once  (in  RV)  as  a  place-name:    "until 
thou  oomest  to  Gai"  (AV  "the  valley")  (1  S  17  52); 
also  (RV)  "Ge-harashim"  (1  Ch  4  14);    ef  "valley 
of  (raftsmen"  (in  "Ge-haharashim")  (Neh  11  35). 

(2)  pK?  ,  'emck,  V  p'^  ,  'amok,  "to  be  deep";  cf 

,   *umk, 


i   *amiik,  "to  be  deep"; 
"depth"  ;  -_q^t^  ,   *Ammik,  a  village  in  the  valley  of 


Coele-Syria;  absolute:  "He  could  not  drive  out  the 
inhabitants  of  the  valley"  (Jgs  1  19);  often  with 
place-names:  "valley  of  Achor"  (Josh  7  24); 
"valley  of  Aijalon"  (Josh  10  12);  "valley  of 
Gibeon"  (Isa  28  21);  "vale  of  Hebron"  (Gen  37 
14);  "valley  of  Jehoshaphat"  (Joel  3  2);  "vale  of 
Rephaim,"  AV  "valley  of  the  giants"  (Josh  15  8); 
"vale  of  Shaveh"  (Gen  14  17);  "vale  of  Siddim" 
(Gen  14  3);  "valley  of  Suecoth  (Ps  60  6);  <f 
"valley  of  Weeping"  (AV  "Baca")  (Ps  84  0); 
"valley  of  Beracah"  (m  "Blessing")  (2  Ch  20  2(5); 
"valley  of  decision"  (Joel  3  14);  "vale  of  Elah"  (m 
"terebinth")  (1  S  17  2);  "the  King's  Vale"  (Gen 
14  17);  but  "the  king's  dale"  (2  S  18  18);  "Emek- 
keziz,"  AV  "valley  of  Keziz"  (Josh  18  21). 

(3)713x3,  bik'dh,  V^'p?,  baku\  "to  cleave,"  hence 
"valley,"  esp.  "broad  valley"  or  "plain";  cf  Arab. 

kxJij  ,     bak'at,     "wet     meadow,"      cUb  ,     Bikd\ 

Coele-Syria;  absolute:  "a  land  of  hills  and  valleys" 
(Dt  11  11);  with  place-names:  "valley  of  Jericho" 
(Dt  34  3);  "valley  of  Lebanon"  (Josh  11  17); 
"valley  of  Megiddo"  (2  Ch  35  22);  "valley  of 
Mizpah"  (Josh  11  8). 

(4)  bn:  ,  nahnl,  also  "river"  or  "stream";    ab- 
solute:    "Isaac's    servants    digged    in   the   valley" 
(Gen   26    19);     with    place-names:     "valley    [AV 
"river"]    of   the    Arnon"    (Dt   2   24);    "valley    of 
Eshcol"    (Nu  32  9);     "valley   of   Gerar"    (Gen  26 
17);    "valley  of  Shittim"    (Joel  3  18);    "valley  of 
Sorek"  (Jgs  16  4);    "valley  of  Zered"  (Nu  21^12). 

(5)  nbETE,   sh'pheliih,    V  bETS  ,   shaphcl,  "to   be 

low";  ef  Arab.  JuL*  ,  snfnl,  "to  be  low";  AV 
"vallev"  or  "vale,"  RV  "lowland,"  the  coast  and 
foothills  of  Western  Pal. 

(6)  av\6v,  a  ulon,  "valley"  (Jth  4  4;  7  3;  10  10). 

(7)  (/>dpay£,  phdragx:  "Every  vallev  shall  be  filled" 
(Lk  3  5). 

The  valley  gate  (Neh  2  13,  etc)  may  have  had 
about  the  location  of  the  present  Jaffa  gate,  if  by 
"valley"  is  meant  the  valley  of  Hinnom.  If  the 
Tyropceon  is  meant,  it  would  have  been  near  the 
southwestern  corner  of  the  liar  am  area.  See 
JERUSALEM. 

The  valleys  of  the  mountainous  part  of  Pal  are 
mostly  dry,  rocky  wadies  with  occasional  torrents 
in  the  winter  season.  Those  which  descend  to  the 
W.  widen  out  as  they  approach  the  plain  and  contain 
broad  fields  and  meadows  which  in  the  winter  and 


spring  at  least  are  fresh  and  green.  The  valley  of 
the  Jordan,  the  valley  of  Megiddo  and  the  valley  of 
Lebanon  (i.e.  Coele-Syria)  contain  much  cultivable 
land:  "the  herds  that  were  in  tin-  valleys"  (1  Ch 
27  29):  "They  of  Beth-shemesh  were;  reaping  their 
wheat  harvest  in  the  valley"  (1  S  6  13);  "The 
valleys  also  are  covered  over  with  grain"  (Ps  65 
13).  See  BROOK;  CHAMPAIGN;  LOWLAND;  RIVER; 
SiiEi'HELAii.  ALFRED  ELY  DAY 


,  val'yant,  VALIANTLY,  val'yant-Ii 
P"1^  ,  tt'iyil;  Icrx^pos,  /.sr/nm'.s-  1  :  "Valiant"  in  the 
()T  is  for  the  most  part  the  tr  of  hnyil,  "power,"  or 
"might,"  and  is  applied  to  the  courageous  and  to 
men  of  war  ("mighty  men  of  valor"),  as  in  1  S 
14  52;  31  12;  2  S  ll  10,  etc;  in  some  passages 
ben  hnyil,  "a-  son  of  might"  (Jgs  21  10;  IS  18 
17;  2  S  2  7,  etc).  A  few  other  Heb  words  (<jib- 
bor,  etc)  are  thus  rendered.  In  the  NT  the  word 
occurs  once  in  AV  (He  11  34,  "valiant  in  fight"; 
RV  "mighiy  in  war").  "Valiantly"  is  the  tr  of 
the  same  Heb  word  (Nu  24  18;  "Ps  60  12,  etc); 
in  one  case  in  AV  of  huzak  (1  Ch  19  13,  ARV 
"play  the  man,"  ERV  "men").  In  some  instances 
RV  has  variations,  as  "man  of  valor"  for  "valiant 
man"  (1  S  16  18),  "valiant"  for  "strong"  (1  Ch 
26  7.9;  Jer  48  14,  etc).  W.  L.  WALKER 

VALLEY,  val'i.     See  VALE,  VALLEY. 

VALLEY  GATE  (X^n  -|?C,  sha'ar  ha-gay\  "Gate 
of  the  Gai"):  Is  placed  (Neh  3  13)  between  the 
"tower  of  the  furnaces"  and  the  "dung  gate";  from 
here  Nehemiah  (2  13)  set  out  on  his  ride  down  the 
"Gai"  (Hinnom)  to  Siloam,  and,  too  (12  31.38), 
from  here  the  Levites  commenced  their  compass  of 
the  city  in  two  directions.  It  must  have  been  an 
ancient  gate,  for  Uzziah  added  towers  to  it  (2  Ch  26 
9).  It  was  probably  near  the  S.W.  corner  of  the 
city  and  near  to,  if  not  identical  with,  the  gate 
found  by  Bliss  near  (now  in)  the  Protestant  Ceme- 
tery. See  JERUSALEM,  VI,  13. 

E.  W.  G.  MASTERMAN 

VALLEY,  JORDAN.     See  JORDAN  VALLEY. 


VALLEY  OF  DECISION   Cp-lPin   p^? 
-hdruf).     See  JEHOSHAPHAT,  VALLEY  OF. 


VALLEY  OF  GIANTS.     See  REPHAIM,  VALE  OF. 
VALLEY  OF  KEZIZ.     See  EMEK-KEZIZ. 

VALLEY  OF  SLAUGHTER.  See  HIXNOM; 
SLAUGHTER,  VALLEY  OF;  TOPHETH. 

VALLEY  OF  VISION  Q^-TH  fcT3  ,  gc'  hizzayon): 
A  symbolic  name  generally  understood  to  signify 
Jerus  as  being  the  home  of  prophetic  vision 
(Isa  22  1.5). 

VAMPIRE,  vam'plr  (Hp^b?  ,  ^ulukah)  :  RVm  for 
"horseleach"  (Prov  30  15)  has  "vampire."  See 
HoRSELEACH. 

VANIAH,  va-nl'a  0"P:i  ,  wanydli,  meaning  un- 
known): A  son  of  Bani,  who  had  married  a  foreign 
wife  (Ezr  10  30).  The  text  is,  however,  doubtful. 
LXX  B  h;is  Quiexwd,  Ouiechod,  X  ,  OvLfpexu,  Onicre- 
cho,  A,  Ovowid,  Ouounid,  Luc.,  Owicia,  Ouanid. 

VANITY,  van'i-ti,  VANITIES,  van'i-tiz  (ban, 
hebhel,  "J1X  ,  'awen,  NTO  ,  shdw'  ;  Ktvos,  kends,  (iarai- 
6n\9tmatai6tes):  The  words  "vain,"  "vanity,"  "vani- 
ties" are  frequent  in  the  Bible.  Their  idea  is  almost 
exclusively  that  of  "evanescence,"  "emptiness," 


Vapor 
Verily,  Verity 


THE  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BiBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


including  "idolatry"  and  "wickedness"  as  being  not 
only  evil  but  vain  and  empty  things.  They  also 
signify  falseness.  The  chief  word  trd  "vanity," 
"vanities"  is  hcbhd,  a  "breath  of  air,  or  of  the 
mouth,"  often  applied  to  idolatry  (Dt  32  21;  1  K 
16  13;  Ps  31  G;  Jer  8  19,  etc);  to  man's  days  and 
to  man  himself  (Job  7  10;  Ps  39  5.11,  etc);  to 
man's  thoughts  ( Ps  94  11);  to  wealth  and  treasures 
(Prov  13  11;  21  G);  to  everything,  in  Eccl,  where 
the  word  occurs  frequently  in  various  applications: 
"Vanity  of  vanities,  all  is  vanity"  (Keel  1  2;  12  H). 
Hcbhd 'is_also  the  name  of  Adam's  second  son  (Gen 
4  2).  'Awctt,  meaning  also  "breath,"  is  likewise  tr'1 
"vanity"  in  similar  connections,  but  it  inclines  more 
to  "iniquity"  (so  often  rendered);  it  is  joined  with 
mischief  and  iniquity  (Isa  41  29;  68  9;  Zee  10  2;; 
another  frequent  word  is  xt/atr',  having  also  the  idea 
of  "falsity,"  "wickedness"  (Ex  20  7;  Dt  5  11;  Ps 
31  G,  etc). 

"Vanity"  does  not  often  occur  in  the  NT;  but  see 
VAIN,  VAINGLORY.  In  Acts  14  15  we  have  mdtaios, 
"empty,"  trd  "vanities"  (of  idols);  viataiotcs,  "empti- 
ness," '  "transitorincss"  (Rom  8  20,  "The  creation 
was  subjected  to  vanity,"  frailty,  transitoriness); 
"emptiness,"  "folly"  (Eph  4  17;  2  Pet  2  IS). 

Among  oilier  changes  for  "vanity"  KV  has  "iniquity" 
(Job  15  :*•">:  Ps  10  7);  "falsehood"  (Ps  12  2:  41  6); 
"deceit"  (144  x.ll);  "vapor"  (Prov  21  (>>;  "calamity" 
(22s  m  "  vanity") ;  "a  breath"  (Isa  57  IS);  "wick- 
edly" (58  !>).  Conversely,  for  "Wherefore  hast  thou 
made  all  men  in  vain?"  (Ps  89  47),  "  Kor  what  vanity 
hast  thou  created  all  the  children  of  men!";  for  "Be- 
hold, they  are  all  vanity;  their  works  are  nothing" 
(Isa  41  29),  "  Behold,  all  of  them,  their  works  are  vanity 
and  nought,"  m  as  AV.  with  "nought"  for  "nothing." 

W.   L.  WALKER 
VAPOR,  va'per:    (1)  "X  ,  'c<lh:   "For  he  draweth 

up  the  drops  of  water,  which  distil  in  rain  from  his 
vapor"  (Job  36  27);  "There  went  up  a  mist  [edh] 
from  the  earth,  and  watered  the  whole  face  of 
the  ground"  ((Jen  2  G).  (2)  fcTTp:  ,  nasi',  "vapor," 
i.e.  that  which  rises,  from  V  ^"*y ;  ,  wo.su',  "to  lift": 
"Who  causeth  the  vapors  to  ascend  from  the  ends 
of  the  earth"  (Ps  135  7;  cf  Jer  10  13;  51  16); 
also  tr'1  "clouds":  "us  clouds  and  wind  without 
rain"  (Prov  25  14).  (3)  In  Job  36  33,_  AV  has 
"vapour"  ("concerning  the  vapour")  for  ^2  ,  *alali, 
V  nby,  *aldh,  "to  go  up,"  where  RV  reads  "con- 
cerning the  storm  that  comet h  up."  (-1)  "Ht^p , 
kltor:  "fire  and  hail,  snow  and  vapor"  (Ps  148  S); 
elsewhere,  "smoke":  "The  smoke  of  the  land  went 
up  as  the  smoke  of  a  furnace"  (Gen  19  28);  "I  am 
become  like1  a  wineskin  in  the  smoke"  (Ps  119  83). 
(5)  arfj.ls,  nlnris:  "blood,  and  fire,  and  vapor  of 
smoke"  (Acts  2  19);  "For  ye  are  a  vapor  that 
appeareth  for  a  little  time,  and  then  vanisheth 
away"  (Jas  4  14).  The  first  two  of  t lie  preceding 
quotations  are  interesting  as  indicating  the  knowl- 
edge that  vapor  of  water  from  the  earth  or  sea  is 
the  source  of  the  rain.  Visible  vapor,  i.e.  mist  or 
fog,  is  much  less  common  in  Pal  than  in  many 
other  countries.  In  the  mountains,  however,  esp. 
in  Lebanon,  mists  are  of  frequent  occurrence,  ap- 
pearing to  those  below  as  elouds  clinging  to  the 
mountains.  ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

VASHNI,  vash'ni  0?Tpl ,  washnl,  see  below; 
LXX  B,  SaveC,  ,SVmd,,  A,  Savt,  Sani):  Read  in  1  Ch 
6  28  AV  (Heb  13)  as  the  name  of  the  firstborn 
son  of  Samuel.  According  to  ver  33  (Heb  18) 
and  1  S  8  2,  Samuel's  eldest  son  was  Joel,  and 
the  second  Abijah.  The  explanation  of  this  is  that 
in  1  Ch  6  28  the  word  taken  then  as  a  proper 
name  is  really  "and  second";  so  following  LXX, 
Luc.  and  Syr  we  read  (as  RV),  "And  the  sons 
of  Samuel:  the  first-born,  Joel,  and  the  second 
Abijah." 


3046 


VASHTI,  vash'tl  Otftpl ,  washtl;  'Ao-rCv,  Astin; 
Old  Pers  "beautiful  woman"):  The  former  queen 
of  Xerxes,  whom  he  divorced.  On  the  7th  day  of 
a  great  feast  which  the  king  was  giving  to  the  as- 
sembled nobles  of  the  empire  and  others,  he  com- 
manded the  seven  chamberlains  who  served  in  his 
presence  to  bring  the  queen  into  the  assembly.  \Ve 
are  told  (Est  1  11)  that  his  purpose  was  "to  show 
the  peoples  and  the  princes  her  beauty;  for  she 
was  fair  to  look  on."  The  king's  command  was 
met  by  Vashti  with  a  mortifying  refusal  to  obey. 
The  reason  which  is  sometimes  assigned  for  her  dis- 
obedience— that  no  man  but  the  king  was  permitted 
to  look  upon  the  queen — is  without  foundation. 
Esther  invites  Hainan  on  two  occasions  to  accom- 
pany tin1  king  to  a  banquet  at  which  she  was  present. 
Nor  can  it  be  said  that  there  was  any  lack  of  recog- 
nition of  Vashti's  high  dignity;  the  seven  highest 
officials  of  the  palace  were  sent  to  escort  her.  The 
refusal  had  to  be  visited  with  a  punishment  severe 
enough  to  reestablish  the  supremacy  which  it  threat- 
ened to  overthrow.  She  was,  accordingly,  divorced 
and  dethroned. 

There  is  no  known  reference  to  Vashti  outside  of 
Est.  The  suggestion  has  been  made  that  Vashti 
was  an  inferior  wife,  or  one  of  the  royal  concubines. 
There  is  nothing,  however,  to  support  it;  and  it  is, 
besides,  directly  opposed  to  several  statements  in 
the  narrative.  She  is  always  named  "queen"  (Est 
1  9.11.12.15-18).  It  is  only  (ver  19)  when  the  decree 
is  proposed  to  repudiate  and  degrade  her  that  she  is 
called  merely  "Vashti."  She  also  (ver  9j  presides 
at  the  banquet  for  the  women.  It  is  evident,  there- 
fore, that  in  the  palace  of  the  women  there  was  no 
higher  personage  than  Vashti.  JOHN  URQUHART 

VAT.     See  WINEVAT. 

VAULT,  volt  H?:  ,  nd^nr,  "to  guard,"  "protest"): 
Isaiah's  charge  against  Israel  as  "a  people  that 
....  lodge  in  the  secret  places"  (Isa  65  4,  in 
"vaults,"  AV  "monuments")  probably  refers  to  the 
custom  of  sleeping  in  sacred  tombs  or  vaults  of  idol 
temples  to  learn  the  future  through  dreams  by  the 
method  known  as  incubation.  See  DIVINATION,  G, 
(ii);  7,  1;  FAMILIAR  SPIRIT;  WITCHCRAFT;  and 
Expos  T,  IX,  157  if. 

VAULT  OF  EARTH.     See  ASTRONOMY,  III,  1. 
VAV,  viiv.     Sec  WAW. 

VEDAN,  ve'dan  ("Tl ,  iv'clhan'):  A  place-name 
occurring  only  in  E/k  27  19,  "Vcdan  and  Javan 
traded  with  yarn  for  thy  wares."  AV,  taking  the 
syllable  ive  iis  the  Heb  conjunction,  renders  "and 
Dan  also."  The  text  is  in  bad  condition.  Some 
read  "Dedan,"  but  Dedan  is  spoken  of  separately  in 
the  following  verse.  Assuming  that  Vedan  is  the 
correct  reading,  an  identification  may  be  conjectured 
with  Waddan,  also  called  al-*Abwa\  between  Mecca 
and  Medina.  It  was  the  object  of  Mohammed's 
first  expedition  (Il»i  I/ix/iani,  415).  The  name 
contains  that  of  the  god  Wadd  who  was  worshipped 
chiefly  by  the  Arab  tribe  Kalb.  A.  S.  FULTON 

VEHEMENT,  ve'he-ment,  VEHEMENTLY,  ve'- 
he"-ment-li  ("1'ttJ"l"in  ,  harishi;  €imr60T]cri,s,  epipothesis) : 
"Vehement"  (from  Lat  rchcrt-.,  "to  carry,"  or  ve, 
"out  of,"  and  mcns,  "mind"),  carried  away  by  the 
mind  or  force  of  passion,  occurs  twice  in  the  OT 
(Cant  8  G,  AV  "a  most  vehement  flame"  [jealousy]) 
as  the  tr  of  shalhebheth-ydh,  "the  flame  of  Jeh,"  which 
perhaps  means  lightning  (RV  "a  very  flame  of  Jeh," 
m  "a  most  vehement  flame,  Heb  Jah");  and  as  the 
tr  of  AV  harishi,  "silent,"  "still,"  hence  "sultry" 


3047 


Till']  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Vapor 
Verily,  Verity 


(Jon  4  X,  AV  "a  vehement  east  wind,"  RV  "sul- 
try"'). In  the  NT,  "vehement  desire"  is  (AV)  the 
tr  of  epipothesis,  "earnest  desire"  (2  Cor  7  11,  RV 
"longing"). 

"Vehemently"  is  the  <r  of  deinos,  "greatly" 
(Lk  11  53);  of  ck  pcrisKoii  or  ekperissds,  "beyond 
measure"  (Mk  14  31,  "He  spake1  exceeding  vehe- 
mently"); of  culnnox,  "intensely"  (Lk  23  10); 
and  in  AV  of  prosrhtgnumi,  "to  break"  or  "dash 
upon"  (Lk  6  48.49,  RV  "break"). 

W.  L.  WALKER 

VEIL,  val:  The  following  words  are  so  trd  in 
EV  (sometimes  AV  vail):  (1)  nnEIp1)?  ,  mit./tahatli, 
Ruth  3  15  AV,  RV  "mantle."  As  the  material 
was  strong  enough  to  serve  as  a  bag  for  a  large 
quantity  of  grain  RV  is  certainly  right;  ef  Isa  3 
22.  (2)rnC'2,  HHixurti,  Ex  34  33-3.1.  Si.  Paul 
in  his  ((notation  of  the  passage  in  2  Cor  3  13-1(5 
uses  Kd\vfjifj,a,  kdlumma,  following  LXN.  The 
covering  worn  by  Moses  to  conceal  the  miraculous 
brightness  of  his  face,  although,  according  to  MT, 
he  seems  to  have  worn  it  only  in  private.  (3) 
npG1)?,  mas§ekhah,  Isa  25  7;  in' 28  20  tr(1  "cover- 
ing." The  use  in  25  7  is  figurative  and  the  form 
of  (he  "veil"  a  matter  of  indifference.  (4)  !T£?  , 
fammdfi,  RV  Cant  4  1.3  (in  "locks"  [of  hair);; 
6  7;  Isa  47  2,  AV  "locks."  The  meaning  of  the 
word  is  uncertain  and  AV  may  very  well  be  right. 
If,  however,  RV's  tr  is  correct,  a  light  ornamental 
veil  is  meant.  (5)  C"1^ ,  c«'Z/>/(,  Gen  24  (>5;  38 
14.19.  A  large  wrap  is  meant,  which  at  times  was 
used  to  cover  the  face  also.  In  24  Go  Rebekah  con- 
formed to  the  etiquette  which  required  the  veiling 
of  brides  (see  MAKIUAGI-;).  In  eh  38  one  motive 
for  Tamar's  use  of  the  veil  was  certainly  to  avoid 
recognition,  but  it  seems  clear  from  the  passage  that 
veils  were  used  by  courtesans.  Why  is  unknown, 
perhaps  partly  to  conceal  their  identity,  perhaps 
partly  in  parody  of  the  marriage  custom.  ((>) 
-P~n,  rd hid h,  Cunt  5  7  (RV  "mantle,"  m  "veil"); 
Isa  3  23.  A  light  mantle  is  certainly  meant.  In 
Cant  5  7  it  is  torn  from  the  maiden  in  the  watch- 
men's endeavor  to  detain  her.  (7)  TrapaKaXv/jLua, 
parakdlumma,  Wisd  17  3  AV,  RV  "curtain." 
(8)  Vb.  KaraKaXv-n-ru,  katakallipto,  1  Cor  11  (>  f, 
with  dKaTdKaXv-rrTu,  akatakalupto,  "unveil"  in  ver  f>; 
AV  has  "cover"  and  "uncover";  /caXuTrrw,  kalii]>lo, 
2  Cor  4  3  (hi*},  uvaKoKvirTu,  anakaliipto,  2  Cor  3  IS; 
AV  "hid"  and  "open." 

It  will  be  seen  that  there  is  a  certain  reference  to 
what  in  modern  times  would  be  termed  a  "veil" 
only  in  (2)  above.  For  a  possible  additional  refer- 
ence see  MUKKI, KR. 

The  use  of  the  face  veil  as  a  regular  article  of 
dress  was  unknown  to  the  II  eb  women,  and  if  "veil" 
is  to  be  understood  in  Cant  4  1,  etc,  it  was  worn 
as  an  ornament  only.  The  modern  oriental  cus- 
tom of  veiling  is  due  to  Mohammedan  influence  and 
has  not  been  universally  adopted  by  Jewesses  in  the 
Orient.  In  NT  times,  however,  among  both  Greeks 
and  Romans,  reputable  women  wore  a  veil  in  public 
(Plutarch  Qtiacnl.  Itom.  xiv)  and  to  appear  without  it 
was  an  act  of  bravado  (or  worse);  Tarsus,  St.  Paul's 
home  city,  was  especially  noted  for  strictness  in  this 
regard  (Dio  of  Prusa,  Tarsica  prior,  §  48).  Hence  St. 
Paul's  indignant  directions  in  1  Cor  11  2-1(1, 
which  have  their  basis  in  the  social  proprieties  of 
the  time.  The  bearing  of  these  directions,  however, 
on  the  compulsory  use  of  the  fiat  by  modern  women 
in  public  worship  would  appear  to  be  very  remote. 

For  the  Veil  of  the  Tabernacle  and  the  Temple 
see  next  article.  BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

VEIL:  (1)  (PDHS ,  pdrokheth;  Kara-ire'rao-p-a,  ku- 
tapetasma;  AV  vail):  In  Ex,  Lev,  Nu,  the  veil 
that  hung  between  the  two  holy  chambers  of  the 


tabernacle  is  mentioned  23  t  (Ex  26  31,  etc).  In 
several  places  it  is  termed  "the  veil  of  the  screen," 
and  it  is  distinguished  from  "the  screen  for  the  door 
of  the  tabernacle"  (Ex  35  12.15;  39  34.38).  By 
the  latter  is  meant  the  curtain  that  hung  outside  the 
holy  place,  i.e.  at  the  tabernacle  entrance.  Ex  26 
31  informs  us  that  the  veil  was  made  of  fine-twined 
linen,  and  that  its  colors  were  blue  and  purple  and 
scarlet.  It  was  embroidered  with  cherubim.  At 
each  removal  of  the  tabernacle  the  veil  was  used 
to  enwrap  the  ark  of  the  testimony  (Nu  4  5). 
I'Yom  its  proximity  to  this  central  object  of  the  Ileb 
ceremonial  system,  the  veil  is  termed  "the  veil  of 
the  testimony"  (Lev  24  3),  "the  veil  which  is 
before  the  testimony"  (Ex  27  21,),  etc.  In  Solo- 
mon's Temple  the  veil  is  mentioned  but  once  (2  Ch 
3  14).  It  was  protected  by  doors  of  olive  wood 
(1.  K  6  31).  In  the  later  temple  it  is  alluded  to  in 
1  Mace  1  22.  Its  presence1  in  Herod's  temple  is 
attested  by  the  statement  in  each  of  the  Synop- 
tists  that  at  the  time  of  Christ's  death  the  veil  of 
the  temple  was  rent  from  top  to  bottom,  or  in  the 
midst  (Mt  27  51;  Mk  15  38;  Lk  23  45;  cf  in 
Mish,  Mid.  ii.  1;  iv.7).  This  fact  is  the  basis  of 
the  profound  truth  expressed  by  the  writer  to  the 
Hebrews  that  Jesus,  by  His  sacrificial  death,  opened 
for  all  believers  a  way  into  the  holiest  "through  the 
veil,  that  is  to  say,  his  flesh"  (He  10  20).  See 
TABERNACLE;  TEMPLE.  (2)  See  preceding  art.  and 
DRESS,  V.  W.  SHAW  CALDECOTT 

VEIN,  van:  Only  in  Job  28   1,  AV  "a  vein  for  the 

silver,"  or  S^172  ,  ///or«',  "going  forth,"  "source." 
Both  AV  "vein"  and  RV  "mine"  are  more  special- 
ized than  )nw;d',  but  11 V  doubtless  conveys  the 
original  meaning. 

VENGEANCE,  ven'jans.  See  AVENGE;  GOKL; 
RETRIBUTION ;  REVENGE. 

VENISON,  ven'i-z'n,  venVn:  Is  derived 
(through  the  Fr.  venaixon)  from  the  Lat  roiari,  "to 
hunt,"  and  means  properly  "the  spoils  of  the  chase." 
As,  however,  the  object  of  the  chase,  par  excellence, 
was  the  deer,  venison  came  to  mean  usually  (as  it  in- 
variably does  in  modern  Eng.)  "deer's flesh."  But  in 
EV  this  technical  force  seems  not  to  be  implied,  for 
"venison"  is  used  onlv  for  the  two  Ileb  words  ™P? , 
cai/idh  (Gen  25  2S;  "  27  5ff),  and  iTr?  ,  cedhdh 
(Gen  27  3),  and  both  these  words  (from  "P£  ,  fiZd/i, 
"to  hunt")  mean  simply  "game"  of  any  kind. 

VERDIGRIS,  vur'di-gres.     See  SCUM. 

VERILY,  ver'i-li,  VERITY,  ver'i-ti  (33X ,  'dbhal, 
etc;  d.fiT|v,  ainPii):  "Verily,"  as  confirmatory  advb., 
represents  various  Ileb  and  Gr  words  and  particles 
("ah/idl,  "truly,"  in  Gen  42  21,  etc;  'akh,  "only," 
"surely,"  in  Ps  66  19;  Isa  45  15,  etc).  For  AV 
"verily  thou  shalt  be  fed"  (Ps  37  3,  where  'emunah), 
ARV  has  "feed  on  his  faithfulness"  and  ERV 
"follow  after  faithfulness,"  in  in  both  "feed  se- 
curely." The  Gr  amen  (Ileb  'amen)  is  used  very 
frequently  in  the  Gospels  as  an  emphatic  confirma- 
tion of  Christ's  sayings  (Mt  5  18.26;  6  2;  Mk  3 
28,  etc),  and  in  John's  Gospel  is  repeated  to  give 
additional  emphasis  (Jn  1  51;  3  3.5.11,  etc).  RV 
makes  various  changes,  as  "wholly"  for  "verily" 
(Job  19  13),  "surely"  (Ps  39  5;  73  13),  "indeed" 
(Mk  9  12;  Rom  2  25;  He  3  5;  7  5),  etc,  and 
sometimes  puts  "verily"  where  AV  has  other  words, 
as  "also"  (Mt  13  23)',  "doubtless"  (Phil  3  8),  etc. 

Verity  is  the  tr  of  'cmcth,  "truth,"  "stedfastness" 
(Ps  111  7,  "The  works  of  his  hands  are  verity  and 
judgment,"  ARV  "truth  and  justice1,"  ERV  "truth 
and  judgment");  and  of  altthcia,  "truth,"  "reality," 


Vermilion 
Vine 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3048 


"certainty"   (1  Tim  2  7),   "faith  and   verity,"   RV 
"faith  and  truth."  W.  L.  WALKER 

VERMILION,  ver-mil'yun.     See  COLORS,  (3). 

VERSIONS,  vur'shunz.  See  AMERICAN  RE- 
VISED VERSION;  ARABIC  VERSIONS;  ARMENIAN 
VERSIONS;  COPTIC  VERSIONS;  ENGLISH  VERSIONS; 
ETHIOPIC  VERSIONS;  LATIN  VERSION,  THE  OLD; 
SEPTFACINT;  SYRIAC  VERSIONS;  TAROUM;  TEXT 
OF  THE  NT;  TEXT  OF  THE  OT;  VFLIJATE. 

VERSIONS,    GEORGIAN,    jor'ji-an,    GOTHIC, 

goth'ik,    SLAVONIC,    sla-von'ik:     Georgia    is    the 

name  given  to  the  territory  extending 

1.  The  to  the  I1],  of  the  Black  Sea,  a  country 
Georgian        that  has  had  an  independent  national 
Version           existence   of   12,000   years   hut    is    now 

(under  the  name  CJrusinia)  a  part  of 
the  trans-Caucasian  domain  of  Russia.  The  lan- 
guage has  no  affinities  with  any  of  the  recognized 
groups,  but  is  becoming  obsolete  under  Russian 
pressure.  Christianity  was  introduced  into  Georgia 
in  the  4th  cent.,  and  a  national  conversion  followed. 
A  well-supported  tradition  makes  the  first  tr  of  the 
Bible  almost  contemporaneous  with  this  conver- 
sion and  refers  it  to  St.  Mesrop  (d.  441;  see  ARME- 
NIAN VERSIONS),  but  the  fact  is  not  quite  certain  and 
the  beginnings  of  a  native  VS  may  really  be  as  much 
as  two  centuries  later.  The  oldest  MS  extant  is  a 
Psalter  of  the  7th-Sth  cent.,  and  the  earliest  copy 
of  the  Gospels  is  perhaps  a  century  later;  in  all, 
Gregory  (TextkritiJc,  573—75)  enumerates  17  Geor- 
gian MSS  of  the  NT,  but  his  list  is  not  exhaustive. 
The  first  printed  Bible  was  produced  in  the  ancient 
alphabet  in  Moscow  in  174:]  and  has  never  been 
reprinted,  but  other  edd,  perhaps  only  of  the  NT, 
were  issued  at  least  in  1S1G  and  ISIS,  using  the  non- 
ecclesiastical  alphabet.  According  to  Conybeare 
(Z\T\V,  XI,  161 -66,  232-39  [1910])  the  Georgian 
VS  was  first  made  from  the  Old  Syr  and  then  later 
(llth  cent.)  revised  from  the  Gr.  In  1910  a  new 
edition,  bused  on  two  MSS  dated  respectively  913 
and  99">,  was  begun  (Quattuor  Ei\  rcrxio  d'eon/iti 
wins,  St.  Petersburg).  The  Georgian  VS  was  used 
by  S.  C.  Malan,  The  (HIS  pel  (iccordhuj  to  St.  John 
fr*  from  the  11  Old<  xt  VSS,  London,  1862. 

I'lfilas,  the  Arian  bishop  of  the  West   Goths  and 

the  chief  agent   in  their  conversion  to  Christianity, 

was  also  the  first  translator  of  the  Bible1 

2.  The  into  Gothic,  a  work  for  which  he  had 
Gothic            even  to  invent  an  alphabet.     Accord- 
Version  ing    to    tradition,    his   tr  included    the 

entire  Bible  with  the  exception  of  K 
(which  he  thought  unadapted  to  the  already  too 
warlike  character  of  his  converts),  but  there  is  doubt 
whether  his  work  actually  included  more  than  the 
NT.  Too  little  of  the  OT  has  survived  to  enable  a 
settling  of  this  question,  nor  is  it  possible  to  tell 
how  much  revision  the  NT  tr  has  undergone  since 
I'lfilas'  work. 

A  list  of  the  six  Gothic,  MSS  is  given  in  HDtt,  IV, 
862,  to  which  is  to  be  added  a  bilingual  Lat-Gothic 
MS  containing  portions  of  Lk  24,  known  as  the 
Arsinoe  Fragment  (published  in  ZNTW,  XL  1-38 
[1910]  and  separately  [Gicssen,  1910J).  In  all  there 
have  been  preserved  in  the  OT  Gen  6  (in  part ) ;  Ps 
52  2  f;  Neh  5-7  (in  part),  and  in  the  NT  the  Gos- 
pels and  Pauline  Epp.  (all  incomplete),  with  quo- 
tations from  He.  The  best  complete  ed  is  that  of 
Stamm-Heyne9  (Paderborn,  1S96),  but  as  the  VS 
is  of  basic  importance  for  the  history  of  the  Germanic 
languages  there  are  many  edd  of  various  portions 
prepared  for  philological  purposes. 

The  OT  fragments  are  a  tr  of  a  text  very  closely 
allied  to  the  Lucianic  Gr  (see  SEPTUAGINT)  and  are 
certainly  not  from  the  Heb.  The  NT  undoubtedly 


was  made  from  a  text  of  the  type  used  in  Antioch 
(Constantinople)  in  the  4th  cent.,  with  very  slight 
variations,  none  of  which  are  "neutral"  (von  Soden 
classes  them  as  of  the  /-type).  Either  in  making 
the  tr  or  (more  probably)  in  a  subsequent  revision  an 
Old-Lat  text  was  used,  of  the  type  of  Codex  Brixi- 
anus  (f),  and  certain  Old-Lat  readings  are  well 
marked.  For  brief  lists  of  these  peculiarities  see 
Burkitt  in  Jour.  Thcol.  Studies,  I,  129-34  (1900),  or 
von  Soden,  Xchriflen  ilex  NT,  I,  1469  f  (1906). 

It   is  definitely  known  that  the  first  Slavonic  tr 
of  the  Bible  was  commenced  in  8(54  or  earlier  by 
the   two   brothers   Cyril   (d.   869)   and 
3.  The  Methodius  (d.  885),  and  that  the  latter 

Slavonic  worked  on  it  after  the  former's  death. 
Version  Their  work  was  undertaken  for  the 
benefit  of  the  Balkan  Slavs,  and  at 
first  only  the  liturgical  portions  (Gospels,  Acts, 
Epp.  and  Ps)  were  tr'1,  but,  after  the  completion  of 
this,  Methodius  carried  the  tr  farther  to  include 
larger  portions  of  the  OT.  How  much  of  this  he 
accomplished  is  obscure,  but  he  seems  not  to  have 
finished  the  OT  entirely,  while  almost  certainly  he 
did  not  translate;  Rev.  Uncertain  also  is  the  exact 
dialect  used  for  this  work;  although  this  dialect  was 
the  basis  of  the  present  liturgical  language  of  the 
Russian  church,  it  has  undergone  much  transforma- 
tion before  arriving  at  its  final  stage.  At  different 
times  the  tr  of  the  Bible  was  revised  to  conform 
to  the  changes  of  the  language,  in  addition  to  other 
revisional  changes,  and,  as  a  result,  the  MSS  (some 
of  which  go  back  to  the  10th  cent.)  exhibit  very 
varying  types  of  text  that  have  not  been  satisfac- 
torily classified. 

An  attempt  to  bring  the  discrepant  material 
into  order  was  made  about  1495  by  Archbishop 
Gi-nnadius,  but  he  was  unable  to  find  Slavonic  MSS 
that  included  the  entire  Bible  and  was  forced  to 
supply  the  deficiencies  (Ch,  Ezr,  Neh,  Est  and  most 
of  Jer  and  the  Apoc)  by  a  new  tr  made  from  the  Vulg. 
This  Bible  of  Gennadius  was  the  basis  of  the  first 
printed  edition,  made  at  Ostrog  in  1581,  although 
the  liturgical  portions  had  been  printed  earlier 
(Acts  and  Epp.  first  of  all  in  1564).  The  Ostrog  ed 
followed  Gennadius  fairly  closely,  but  Est,  Cant 
and  \\isd  were  new  trs  made  from  the  LXX.  The 
next  revision  was  undertaken  by  order  of  Peter  the 
Great  and  was  performed  by  using  the  Gr  (OT  and 
NT),  although  the  resulting  text  was  not  printed 
until  1751.  A  slightly  emended  ed  of  1756  is  still 
the  official  Bible  of  the  Russian  church. 

This  Slavonic  VS  is  to  be  distinguished  from  the 
VS  in  the  true  Russian  language,  begun  first  in  1517, 
revised  or  remade  at  various  times,  with  an  excellent 
modern  tr  first  published  complete  in  1876.  See, 
on  the  whole  subject,  esp.  Bebb  in  Church  Quart. 
/err.,  XLI,  203-25,  1895. 

LITF.RATI-RK. — On  all  throe  VSS  sec  HDB,  IV,  861-04, 
1902,    and    the   art.   " Bibellibersetzung "   in    f'RPl3,   III 
(1897),  with  the  important  supplement  in  XXIII  (1913). 
BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

VERY,  ver'i:  As  adj.  (from  verus,  "true"), 
"true,"  "real,"  "actual,"  etc  ((Jen  27  21.24,  "my 
very  son  Esau";  Josh  10  27,  "this  very  day"; 
Jn  7  2(5,  "the  very  Christ,"  etc);  chiefly  as  advb., 
"in  a  high  degree,"  "extremely."  As  advb.  it  is 
commonly  in  the  OT  the  tr  of  "IK'S  ,  me'odh,  and  in 
the  NT  represents,  as  adj.  and  advb.,  several  Gr 
words,  as  alethos,  "truly"  (Jn  7  26,  above),  autos 
(Jn  14  11,  "the  very  works'  sake";  Rom  13  6), 
sphodra  (Mt  18  31,  "very  sorry,"  RV  "exceeding 
sorry";  Mk  16  4,  "very  great,"  RV  "exceeding"), 
huper-  (in  composition  1  Thess  5  13),  etc.  RV 
frequently  omits  "very,"  and  also  substitutes 
other  words  for  it,  as  "exceeding"  (2  Ch  16  8; 
Mt  26  7;  cf  above),  "sore"  (Zee  9  5),  etc. 

W.  L.  WALKER 


3049 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Vermilion 
Vine 


VESSEL,  ves'el:  Is  used  frooly  in  EV  to  translate 
y3  ,  k'll,  the  Aram.  "jS^C  ,  ma'n,  and  o-KeOos,  fikciioa, 
words  all  meaning  "an  implement  or  utensil"  of 
any  kind,  when  the  context  shows  that  a  hollow 
utensil  is  meant.  In  1  S  21  5,  however,  the  tr  of 
the  pi.  of  k''ll  by  "vessels"  is  dubious.  EV  evidently 
intended  something  in  the  nature  of  provision 
wallets,  and  the  "holiness''  of  such  objects  finds 
partial  parallels  in  Nu  19  15;  Lev  11  32-34,  etc. 
But  in  1  S  21  8,  in  the  immediate  context  of  the 
verse  above,  k"ll  certainly  means  "weapons,"  and 
this  tr  is  quite  intelligible  in  ver  5  also.  For  war 
among  the  Hebrews  was  a  holy  function,  calling 
for  extreme  ceremonial  purity  (Dt  23  9L14).  See 
the  comnis.  and  esp.  RW,  455-50.  In  addition, 
"vessel"  appears  in  Isa  30  14  for  511?.  ,  nebhcl, 
"jar";  in  Mt  13  4S  for  dyyos,  dggos,  "vessels"; 
and  in  Sir  21  14;  Mt  25  4  for  ayyetov,  aggeion, 
a  dimin.  form  of  aggos.  A  difTerent  use  is  that  of 
Wisd  14  1,  where  "vessel"  represents  TT\OIOV,  ploion, 
"a  boat,"  while  Wisd  14  5.0  AV  has  "weak  vessel" 
for  o-xfSia,  sclicd'ia,  "raft"  (so  RV).  Vessels  of  all 
sorts  and  kinds  and  for  all  sorts  of  uses  were 
so  familiar  as  to  make  them  natural  illustrations 
for  difTerent  sorts  of  human  beings  (Hos  8  8;  Isa 
22  24;  Jer  22  2-!,  etc;  see  POTTER),  and  throng'  i 
Acts  9  15  the  word  "vessel"  has  passed  into  Chris- 
tian theology  as  signifying  simply  a  human  being. 
But  the  figure  of  such  "vessels"  as  (passively)  filled 
with  difTerent  contents  is  not  Bib.  In  1  Thcss  4  4 
"vessel"  may  be  taken  as  a  figure  for  either  the 
man's  own  body  or  for  his  wife.  Between  these 
possibilities  the  comms.  are  almost  equally  divided. 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 
VESTMENTS,  vest'ments.     See  DRESS. 


VESTRY,  ves'tri  (Hnpc  ,  mdtahah):  Once,  in 
2  K  10  '22,  as  a  place  for  vestments. 

VEX,  voks,  VEXATION,  vek-sa's'iun:  "Vex," 
meaning  originally  to  shake  or  toss  in  carrying,  has 
a  much  more  intensive  meaning  in  Scripture  than 
in  common  modern  usage.  It  represents  over  a 
score  of  Heb  and  Gr  words,  most  of  them  tr'1  by 
this  word  only  once,  and  many  of  them  changed  in 
RV  into  other  forms.  Thus  bahel  in  Ps  6  2.3.10 
is  in  ARV  "troubled"  (in  Ps  2  5,RVm  "trouble"); 
frcrar  in  Neh  9  27  is  in  RV  "distressed";  pdscho  in 
Mt  17  15  is  "suffereth  grievously";  kakoo  in  Acts 
12  1  is  "afflict,  "  etc.  So  "vexation  only"  in  Isa 
28  1!)  is  in  RV  "nought  but  terror,"  and  there  are 
other  changes  of  this  word  (cf  Dt  28  20,  "discom- 
fiture"; Isa  9  1,  "in  anguish").  On  the  other  hand, 
RV  has  "vex"  for  "distress"  (Dt  2  9.19);  "they 
that  vex"  for  "the  adversaries  of"  (Isa  11  13j; 
"vexeth  himself"  for  "meddleth"  (Prov  26  17),  etc. 

W.  L.  WALKER 

VIAL,  vl'al:  In  modern  Kng.  means  "a  tiny 
flask."  The  word  appears  in  EV  1  S  10  1  and 
RV  2  K  9  1.3  (AV  "box")  for  TfS  ,  pakh,  a  word 
found  nowhere  else  and  from  a  root  meaning 
"to  pour."  The  shape  and  size  of  the  pakh  are 
quite  uncertain.  In  1  Esd  2  13;  and  AV  Rev  5  8, 
etc,  "vial"  translates  0(dA?7,  phidlc.  The  phiale 
was  a  flat,  shallow  bowl  (Lat  patera),  shaped  much 
like  a  saucer.  Hence  RV's  change  to  "bowl"  in 
Rev,  a  change  that  should  have  been  made  in  1  Esd 
also. 

VICE,  UNNATURAL.     See  TNXATURAL  VICE. 
VICTUALS,  vit/'lz.     See  FOOD. 

VILE,  vll,  VILLANY,  vil'an-i:  The  original  words 
for  "vile"  and  "villany"  are  used  in  about  10  difTer- 
ent senses,  e.g.  despised  (1  S  15  9),  despicable 


(Dnl  11  21  AV),  lightly  esteemed  (Dt.  25  3).  empty 
(.[K.S  19  24  AV;,  foolish  (Isa  32  0,  AV  and  ERV), 
dishonorable  (Rom  1  20),  filthy  or  dirty  (.las  2  2), 
humiliation  (Phil  3  21). 

Villany  occurs  but  twice  in  AV  (Isa  32  0;  Jer 
29  23j,  and  signifies  emptiness  or  folly  (so  RV;. 
From  the  foregoing  meanings  it,  will  be  seen  that 
the  word  "vile"  does  not  always  bear  the  meaning 
which  has  come  to  be  invariably  given  it  in  our 
present-day  speech.  Anything  common  or  ordi- 
nary or  humble  might,  in  the  Scriptural  sense,  be 
termed  "vile."  So  Job  40  4,  RV  "Behold,  1  am 
of  small  account";  also  "the  low  estate  of  his  hand- 
maid" (Lk  1  48).  Ordinarily,  however,  the  idea 
of  contemptible,  despicable1,  is  read  into  the  word 

WILLIAM  EVANS 

VILLAGE,  vil'iij  (122  ,  kaphur,  P^H  ,  hainrdth, 
3"H^n  t  harsf',rlin,  ffuS  ,  bdnolh,  P.'TIS  ,  p'm-.otli, 
Kcofju],  koine):  (1)  The  general  term  for  a  village,  in 
common  with  Aram,  and  Aral).,  is  kd/ihdr  (Cant 
711;  1  Ch  27  25;  kophcr,  1  S  6  IS;  k'pltlr,  Neh 
6  2).  This  designation  is  derived  from  the  idea  of 
its  offering  "cover"  or  shelter.  It  is  used  in  com- 
bination, and  place-names  of  this  formation  became 
prominent  in  post-Bib,  times,  probably  because 
the  villages  so  named  had  then  grown  into  towns. 
A  well-known  Bib.  instance  of  such  names  is  Caper- 
naum. (2)  Hawwoth  (always  "town"  in  EV;  see 
HAVVOTH-JAIR)  m-'ans  originally  a  group  of  tents 
(Arab.  hiwa).  These  in  settled  life  soon  became 
more  permanent  dwellings,  or  what  we  understand 
by  a  village.  The  term,  however,  is  applied  only 
to  the  villages  of  Jair  in  the  tribe  of  Manasseh  (Xu 
32  41;  1  K  4  13).  (3)  llaqcrlin  likewise  came 
from  nomadic  life.  They  were  originally  enclosures 
specially  for  cattle,  alongside  of  which  dwellings  for 
the  herdsmen  and  peasantry  naturally  grew  up 
(see  HAZAR-ADDAR;  HAZOR).  They  were  unwalled 
(Lev  25  31)  and  lay  around  the  cities  (Josh  19  8). 
(4)  Bdnoth  is  lit.  "daughters."  The  word  is  applied 
to  the  dependent  villages  lying  around  the  larger 
cities,  and  to  which  they  looked  as  to  a  kind  of 
metropolis  (Nu  21  25,  etc);  RV  "towns"  except 
in  Nu  32  42.  (5)  P'Tdzoth  means  "the  open  coun- 
try," but  it  soon  came  to  mean  the  villages  scat- 
tered in  the  open  (Ezk  38  11;  Zee  2  4;  Est  9  19). 
Some1  have  sought  to  connect  the  Perizzite.s  with 
this  word  and  to  regard  them,  not  as  a  distinct 
people,  but  as  the  peasant  class.  Attempts  have 
also  been  made  to  connect  p''razon  in  Jgs  5  7.11 
with  the  same  root,  and  AV  rendered  it  "inhabit- 
ants of  the  villages."  RV ,  on  the  contrary,  gives 
it  the  meaning  of  "rulers."  The  VSS  indicate  a 
word  meaning  authority,  and  probably  the  text 
should  be  emended  to  read  roz'nim,  "rulers."  A 
similar  emendation  is  required  in  I  lab  3  14. 
"Village"  in  RV  of  the  NT  invariably  represents  the 
Greek  kdme,  but  in  2  Mace  8  0  the  RV  Apoc  has 
"village"  for  chora,  lit.  "country."  See  CITY; 
Towx.  W.  M.  CHRISTIE 

VILLANY.     See  VILE. 

VINE,  vln: 

(1)  "23,    gcphcH,    usually    the    cultivated    grape 
vine.     In  Nu  6  4;    Jgs  13   14  we   have   T^H   'E-J, 

geplicn,  ha-i/ai/ln,  lit.  "vine  of  wine," 
1.  Hebrew  tr<1  "grape  vine"  (Nu)  and  "vine," 
Words  m  "grape  vine"  (Jgs);  2  K  4  39, 

rnip  -D3  ,  gcphcti  sculhch,  EV  "wild 
vine";  Dt  32  32,210  "?"> ,  gcphcn  s''<!hd»i,  "vine 
of  Sodom." 

(2)  p"VttJ ,     sorck,     in     Isa  5  2,    "choicest    vine"; 
P""£  ,    sfirck,    in    Jer  2  21,   "noble  vine";    H^TT , 
sorckah,  in  Gen  49   11,   "choice   vine";    cf   VALLEY 


Vine 

Virgin,  Virginity 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HIHLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3050 


OF  SOHICK  (q.v.).  The  Hob  is  supposed  to  indicate 
dark  grapes  and,  according  to  rabbinical  tradition, 
they  were  unusually  sweet  and  almost,  if  not  quite, 
stoneless. 

(3)  "T^T:  ,  ttdzlr,  in  Lev  25  5.11,  ''undressed 
vine,"  AV  "vine  undressed,"  m  "separation." 
This  may  mean  an  unpruned  vine  and  be  a  reference 
to  the  unshorn  locks  of  a  Nazirite,  but  it  is  equally 
probable  that  TT:  should  be  "P?3  ,  ba<;lr,  "vint- 
age." 

For  the  blossom  we  have  PHE  ,  perah  (Isa  18  5), 
"blossom";  PIS!  ,  ni(,\'<lJi,  either  the  blossom  or  half- 
formed  clusters  of  grapes  (den  40  10;  Isa  18  5); 
"n'Cv ,  tfniadhar,  "sweet-scented  blossom"  (Cant 

2~13.15;"7  12). 

For  grapes  we  have  commonly:  3-?,  *enabh  (a 
word  common  to  all  Sem  languages)  (den  40  H); 
IK  32  14;  Isa  6  2,  (Me);  D"1?;?  C™  ,  dam  'finabluin, 
lit.  "blood  of  grapes,"  i.e.  wine  (den  49  11);  "C2 , 
hour,  "the  unripe  grape"  (Isa  18  5,  "ripening 
grape,"  AV  "sour  grape";  Job  15  33,  "unripe 
grapes";  Jer  31  29  f;  Fzk  18  2,  "sour  grapes";; 
2vu^3 ,  b''/iKlnn>,  "wild  grapes"  (Isa  6  2.4;  see 
duAPKS,  WILD);  xSlJJS ,  'cxhkol,  a  "cluster"  of  ripe 
grapes  (den  40  10;"  Cant  7  8  f;  Hal)  3  17, 
etc;  cf  EsiiroL  [q.v.]);  uP3£")n ,  harqanmm, 
usually  supposed  to  be  the  kernels  of  grapes  (Nu 
6  4). 

In  dr  we  have  £,u7reXos.  dmpelos,    "vine"    (Ml   26 

29,   etc),    ffTa<pi'\ri,   ^Idp/i nlP    (Sir  39  2(5,    "blood    of 

grapes";      Mt  7    1(5,     "grapes,"     etc), 

2.  Greek        and  Corpus,  Minis  (Rev  14  18),  "cluster 
and  Latin       of   the   vine."      In    the    Lat    of  2  Esd 

rhica  is  "vine"  in  5  2:5  ("vineyard" 
in  16  30.43);  bnlnix  (9  21)  and  raccniHS  (16  30) 
are  "cluster";  uci-nium  (9  21)  and  um  (16  2(5)  are 
"a  grape." 

Pal  appears  to  have  been  a  vine-growing  country 
from  the  earliest  historic;  times.  _  The  countless 

wine    presses    found    in    and    around 

3.  Antiquity  centers  of  early  civilization  witness  to 
and  Im-         this.     It   is   probable   that  the   grape 
portance        was  largely  cult  ivated  as  a  source  of 

sugar:  the  juice  expressed  in  the 
"wine  press"  was  reduced  by  boiling  to  a  liquid  of 
treacle-like  consistency  known  as  "grape  honey,"  or 
in  II eb  d''bhnsh  (Arab.  dib*).  This  is  doubtless  the 
"honey"  of  many  OT  references,  and  before  the 
days  of  cane  sugar  was  the  chief  source  of  sugar. 
The  whole  OT  witnesses  to  how  greatly  Pal  de- 
pended upon  the  vine  and  its  products.  Men  re- 
joiced in  wine  also  as  one  of  dod's  best  gifts  (Jgs 
9  13;  Ps  104  15).  Hut  the  Nazirite  might  eat 
nothing  of  the  vine  "from  the  kernels  even  to  the 
husk"  (Nu  6  4;  Jgs  13  14). 

The  land  promised  to  the  children  of  Israel  was 
one  of  "vines  and  fig  trees  and  pomegranates"  (IK 
8  S);  they  inherited  vineyards  which  they  had 
not  planted  (IK  611;  Josh  24  13;  Neh  9  25). 
Jacob's  blessing  on  Judah  had  much  reference  to 
the  suitability  of  his  special  part  of  the  land  to  the 
vine  (den  49  11).  When  the  leading  people  were 
carried  captive  the  poor  were  left  as  vine  dressers 
(2  K  25  12;  Jer  52  10),  lest  the  whole  land  should 
lapse  into  uncultivated  wilderness.  On  the  prom- 
ised return  this  humble  duty  was,  however,  to  fall 
to  the  "sons  of  the  alien"  (Isa  61  5  AV). 

The  mountain  regions  of  Judaea  and  Samaria, 

often  little  suited   to  cereals,  have  always  proved 

highly  adapted  to  vine  culture.     The 

4.  Its  Cul-     stones  must  first  be  gathered  out  and 
tivation  utilized  for  the  construction  of  a  pro- 
tecting wall  or  of  terraces  or  as   the 

bases  of  towers  (Isa  52;  Mt  21  33).  Every  an- 
cient vineyard  had  its  wine  press  cut  in  a  sheet  of 


rock  appearing  at  the  surface.  As  a  rule  the  vine- 
stocks  lie  along  the  ground,  many  of  the  fruit-bearing 
branches  falling  over  the  terraces  (cf  den  49  22); 
in  some  districts  the  end  of  the  vine-stock  is  raised 
by  means  of  a  cleft  stick  a  foot  or  more  above  the 
surface;  exceptionally  the  vine  branches  climb  into 


Large  Vine  at  Jericho,  Age  .'5:53  Years.    Length  of  Trunk, 

'.»  ft.  7  in.;  (iirtli  of  Trunk  at  J5a.se.  r>:5  in.;  (Jirtu 
of  Trunk  Half-Way  I'p,  3S  in. 


trees,  and  before  a  dwelling-house  they  are  some- 
times supported  upon  poles  to  form  a  bower  (cf 
1  K  4  25,  etc). 

The  cultivation  of  the  vine  requires  constant  care 
or  the  fruit  will  very  soon  degenerate.  After  the 
rains  the  loosely  made  walls  require  to  have  breaches 
repaired;  the  ground  must  be  ploughed  or  harrowed 
and  cleared  of  weeds — contrast  with  this  the  vine- 
yard of  the  sluggard  (Prov  24  30-31);  in  the  early 
spring  the  plants  must  be  pruned  by  cutting  off  dead 
and  fruitless  branches  (Lev  25  3.4;  Isa  5  (5)  which 
are  gathered  and  burned  (Jn  15  (5).  As  the  grapes 
ripen  they  must  be  watched  to  keep  ofT  jackals  and 
foxes  (Cant  2  15),  and  in  some  districts  even  wild 
boars  (Ps  80  13).  The  watchman  is  stationed  in 
one  of  the  towers  and  overlooks  a  considerable  area. 
When  the  grape  season  comes,  the  whole  family  of 
the  owner  frequently  take  their  residence  in  a  booth 
constructed  upon  one  of  the  larger  towers  and 
remain  there  until  the  grapes  are  practically  finished. 
It  is  a  time  of  special  happiness  (cf  Isa  16  10). 
The  gleanings  are  left  to  the  poor  of  the  village  or 
town  (Lev  19  10;  IK  24  21;  Jgs  8  2;  Isa  17  (5; 
24  13;  Jer  49  <);  Mic  7  1).  In  the  late  summer 
the  vineyards  are  a  beautiful  mass  of  green,  as  con- 
trasted with  the  dried-up  parched  land  around,  but 
in  the  autumn  the  leaves  are  sere  and  yellow  (Isa 
34  4),  and  the  place  desolate. 

The  expression  "vine  of  Sodom"  (Dt  32  '.}'2)  has  been 
supposed,  esp.  because  of  the  description  in  Jos  (BJ, 

IV,  viii,  4),  to  refer  to  the  colocynth 
K  Vinp  of  (Citrullus  coloci/iithix),  but  it  is  far  more 

probable  that  it  means  "a  vine  whose 
bodom  juices  and  fruits  were  not  fresh  and 

healthy,  but  tainted  by  the  corruption  of 
which  Sodom  was  the  type"  (Driver,  Ctnnm.  on  Dt). 
See  SODOM.  VINE  OF. 


,1 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Vine 

Virgin,  Virginity 


Figurative:  Every  man  "under  his  vine  and  under 
his  fig-tree"  (I  K  4  IT);  Mir  4  I;  /ec  3  10)  was 
a  sign  of  nalional  peace  and  prosperity.  To  plant 
vinevards  and  eat  the  fruit,  thereof  implied  long 
and  settled  habitation  (2  K  19  29;  I's  107  .'57;  Isa 
37  30;  65  21;  Jer  31  5;  E/k  28  2<i;  Am  9  II); 
to  plant  and  not  eat  the  fruit,  \vas  a  misfortune 
(1)1  20  (i;  cf  1  Cor  9  7)  and  might,  be  a,  sign  of 
Cod's  displeasure  (l)\.  28  30;  Xepli  1  13;  Am  5 
11).  Not.  to  plant,  vines  might  be  a  sign  of  delib- 
erate avoidance  of  permanent,  habitation  (.Jer  35 
7).  A  successful  and  prolonged  vintage  showed 
Cod's  blessing  (Lev  26  5),  and  a  fruitful  wife  is 
compared  to  a  vine  (Ps  128  .'5);  a  failure  of  the 
vine  was  a  sign  of  Cod's  wrath  (I's  78  -17;  Jer  8 
13;  Joel  1  7);  it  might,  be.  a  test  of  faith  in  Him 
(Hal)  3  17).  Joseph  "is  a  fruitful  bough,  ....  his 
brandies  run  over  the  wall"  (Cen  49  22).  Israel 
is  a  vine  (Isa  5  1  -5)  brought  out  of  Egypt  (I's  80 
Sf;  Jer  2  21;  12  10;  cf  E/k  15  2.0;  17  (5).  At 
a  later  period  vine  leaves  or  grape  clusters  figure; 
prominently  on  Jewish  coins  or  in  architecture. 

Three  of  Our  Lord's  parables  are  connected  with 
vineyards   (Mt  20  Iff;    21  2S.33  ff),   and   He  has 
made  the  vine  ever  sacred  in  Christian  symbolism 
by  His  teaching  regarding  the  true  vine  (.In  15). 
E.  .W.  C.  MASTKKMAN 

VINEGAR,  vin'e-ger  (fUh  ,  hdtncc,;  6£os,  o.n«) : 
Vinegar,  whose  use  as  a  condiment  (Ruth  2  14) 
needs  no  comment,  is  formed  when  a  saccharine 
fluid  passes  through  a  fermentation  that  produces 
acetic  acid.  In  the  ancient,  world  vinegar  was 
usually  made  of  wine,  although  any  fruit  juice  can 
be  utilized  in  its  manufacture,  and  "vinegar of  strong 
drink"  (palm  juice?)  is  mentioned  in  Nu  6  3.  I'n- 
diluted  vinegar  is  of  course  undrinkable,  and  to 
offer  it  to  a  thirsty  man  is  mockery  (Ps  69  21), 
but  a  mixture  of  water  and  vinegar  makes  a  bever- 
age that  was  very  popular  among  the  poor  (Or 
oxos,  oxukraton,  Lat  ponca — names  applied  also  to 
diluted  sour  wine) .  It  is  mentioned  in  Nu  6  3  (for- 
bidden to  the  Nazirite)  and  again  in  the  Oospels  in 
the  account  of  the  Crucifixion.  The  executioners 
had  brought  it  in  a  vessel  (Jn  19  29)  for  their  own 
use  and  at  first  "offered"  it  to  Christ,  while  keeping 
it,  out  of  reach  (Lk  23  3(5).  But  at  the  end  the 
drink  was  given  Him  on  a  sponge  (Mk  15  36;  Mt 
27  -IS;  Jn  19  20.30).  In  addition,  AV,  following 
7'/2,  has  "vinegar  ....  mingled  with  gall"  in  Alt 
27  34,  but  this  rests  on  a  false  reading,  probably 
due  to  Ps  69  21,  and  RV  rightly  has  "wine."  Vine- 
gar, like  all  acids,  is  injurious  to  the  teeth  (Prov 
10  2(5);  and  when  it  is  combined  with  niter  an 
effervescence  is  produced  (Prov  25  20).  The  ap- 
propriateness of  the  last  figure,  however,  is  obscure, 
and  LXX  reads  "as  vinegar  on  a  wound,"  causing 
pain.  BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

VINEYARD,  vin'yard.     See  VI.VK. 

VINEYARDS,    MEADOW    (PLAIN)    OF    THE 

(Jgs  11  33).     See  AKKL-CHKKAMI.M;    MKADOW. 

VINTAGE,  vin'tftj.     See  VINK. 

VIOL,  vl'ol  (bn:,  nfbhd,  33:  ,  ncbhd):  AV  and 
RVinlsa  14  11;'  Am  5  23;  6*5;  AV  alone  in  Isa 
5  12,  RV  "lute."  "Viol"  is  derived  from  Lat 
rile/Id,  a  doublet  of  vitida,  a  "viol";  hence  Fr. 
rirlli',  doublet  of  viole.  The  viol  was  a  bowed  in- 
strument, the  parent  of  the  violin  tribe,  and  is  not 
a  true  equivalent  for  ttcbhcl.  See  Mrsic. 

VIOLENCE,     vi'o-lens,     VIOLENT,     vl'6-lont: 

Chiefly  for   -M3  ,   gdzal,  C^2H  ,  hdmas;   f3ia,  Iria,  and 
their  derivatives.      Difficulty  is  offered  only  by  the 


very  obscure  passage  Mt  11  12  Lk  16  l<».  Both 
Ml  and  Lk  contain  the  vb.  f-iidpTai.  /mi:;i  Ini,  but 
I  his  form  may  be  either  a  middle,  "presses  violent  ly," 
"storms,"  or  a  passive;,  "is  forced."  Mt,  in  addi- 
tion, contains  the  adj.  hiuxtui,  but  whether  this  is 
a  term  ol  praise,  "heroic  enthusiasts,"  or  of  blame, 
"hot-headed  revolutionaries,"  is  again  a  problem. 
Nor  can  it  be  determined  whether  the  words  "from 
the  days  of  John  the  Baptist  until  no\v"  are  meant 
to  include  or  exclude  the  work  of  the  Baptist  him- 
self. The  difference  in  wording  in  Mt,  and  Lk 
further  complicates  the  problem,  and,  in  conse- 
quence, scholars  are  widely  at  variance  as  to  the 
proper  interpretation.  "The  Baptist  has  fanned  a 
new  Messianic  storm  of  ill-advised  insurrection," 
"the  Pharisees  have;  shamefully  used  forcible  sup- 
pression of  Cod's  teachers,"  "the  Kingdom  of  Cod 
comes  like  a  storm  and  is  received  by  those  who 
have  used  drastic  self-discipline,"  are  instances  of 
the  differing  explanations  proposed. 

Britro.v  SCOTT  EASTO.X 

VIPER,  vi'per  (rtfSX,  Y/,//Y/t  (Job  20  1(5;  Isa 
30  (5;  59  5];  t\i$v*,  Ichidna  [Mt  3  7  =  Lk  3  7; 
Mt  12  34;  23  33;  Acts  28  3]):  Several  vipers 
are  found  in  Pal,  but  it  is  not  certain  that,  'c/th'cli 
referred  definitely  to  any  of  them.  See  SiciU'K.vr. 

VIRGIN,  vur'jin,  VIRGINITY,  vur-jin'i-ti:  (1) 
!"U?r3  ,  b''th  iildh,  from  a  root  meaning  "separated," 
is  "a  woman  living  apart,"  i.e.  "in  her  father's 
house,"  and  hence  "a  virgin."  B'Hifdah  seems  to 
have  been  the  technical  term  for  "virgin,"  as  ap- 
pears from  such  a  combination  as  -ntfardh  bfietttululi, 
"a  damsel,  a  virgin,"  in  Dt  22  23. 2S,  etc.  An 
apparent,  exception  is  Joel  1  8,  "Lament  like  a 
virgin  [b'thulah]  ....  for  the  husband  of  her 
youth,"  but  the  word  is  probably  due  to  a  wisli  to 
allude  to  the  title  "virgin  daughter  of  Zion"  (the 
tr  "a  betrothed  maiden"  is  untrue  to  Heb  senti- 
ment). And  the  use  of  "virgin"  for  a  city  (Isa  37 
22,  etc;  cf  Isa  23  12;  47  1)  probably  means  "un- 
subdued," though,  as  often,  a  title  may  persist  after 
its  meaning  is  gone  (Jer  31  4).  AV  and  ERV 
frequently  render  belhflldh  by  "maiden"  or  "maid" 
(Jgs  19  24,  etc),  but  ARV  has  used  "virgin" 
throughout,  despite  the  awkwardness  of  such  a 
phrase  as  "young  men  and  virgins"  (Ps  148  12). 
For  "tokens  of  virginity"  ("proofs  of  chastity") 
see  the  comm.  on  Dt  22  15  ff.  (2)  rvcby ,  <alntdh, 
rendered  in  RV  by  either  "damsel"*  (Ps  68  25), 
"maiden"  (so  usually,  Ex  2  8,  etc),  or  "virgin" 
with  m  "maiden"  (Cant  1  3;  68;  Isa  7  14).  The 
word  (see  OHL)  means  simply  "young  woman" 
and  only  the  context  can  give  it  the  force  "virgin." 
This  force,  however,  seems  required  by  the  con- 
trasts in  Cant  6  8,  but  in  1  3  "virgin"  throws  the 
accent  in  the  wrong  place.  The  controversies  re- 
garding Isa  7  14  are  endless,  but  LXX  took  '•ulindh 
as  meaning  "virgin"  (partMnos).  lint  in  NT  times 
the  Jews  never  interpreted  the  verse  as  a  prediction 
of  a  virgin-birth — a  proof  that  the  Christian  faith 
did  not  grow  out  of  this  passage.  See  I.MMAXIKL; 
ViK<;i.\-BiRTH.  (3)  irapdtvos,  parlhenos,  the  usual 
Grword  for  "virgin"  (Jth  16  5,  etc;  Mt  1  23,  etc). 
In  Rev  14  4  the  word  is  masculine.  In  1  Cor  7 
25  ff  RV  has  explained  "virgin"  by  writing  "virgin 
daughter"  in  vs  3G-3S.  This  is  almost  certainly 
right,  but  "virgin  companion"  (see  Lietzmann  and 
J.  Weiss  in  loc.)  is  not  quite  impossible.  (4)  vedvLS, 
ncdnis,  "young  woman"  (Sir  20  4).  (5)  Lat  rinjo 
(2  Esd  16  33). 

The  OT  lays  extreme  emphasis  on  chastity  before 
marriage  (Dt  22  21),  but  childlessness  was  so  great 
a  misfortune  that  death  before  marriage  was  to  be 
bewailed  (Jgs  11  37.38).  St.  Paul's  preference 
for  the  unmarried  state  (1  Cor  7  29  ff)  is  based 


Virgin-Birth          THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3052 


I. 
II. 

III. 


on  the  greater  freedom  for  service  (cf  Mt  19  12), 
and  (he  (!r  estimuto  of  virginity  us  possessing  a 
religious  quality  per  KK  is  foreign  to  true  Jewish 
thought  (such  a  passage  as  Philo  Muixl.  opff.,  §  ~>3, 
is  due  to  direct  (Ir  influence).  Some  have  thought 
to  find  a  trace  of  the  (!r  doctrine  in  Rev  14  4. 
But  141,000  Ist-cent.  Christian  ascetics  are  out  of 
the  question,  and  the  figure  must  he  interpreted 
like  that  of  Jas  4  4  (reversed). 

BIKTOX  SCOTT  EASTO.V 
VIRGIN-BIRTH    (OF    JESUS    CHRIST ; : 

Di:  FI  MTION- 

THK   TKXTUAL  QTKSTIOX 

Till-;    HISTORICAL    (.)  rKSTION- 

1.  Statement  Not  Dogmatic  but  Vital  as  History 

2.  Its  Importance  to  Leaders  of  the  Karly  Church 
!{.    Hypothesis  of  Invention  Discredits  tlie  Cliurch 

IV.     THF,  ('lUTH'Ai.  QUESTION 

1.  Basis  of  Virgin-Birth  Statement 

2.  Interrelationship  of  Narratives 

3.  Sources.  Origin  and  Age  of  Documents 
V.     TUB    DOCTRINAL   QUESTION 

1.  In  the  NT 

2.  Portrait  of  Jesus  in  Synoptic  Gospels 
:?.  In   Rest  of  the  NT 

4.  Oppositions  to  the  Doctrine 

/>.    Its  Importance  to  Modern  Thought 
LITER  ATUKE 

/.  Definition. — "Virgin-birth"  is  the  correct  and 
only  correct  designation  of  the  birth  statement 
contained  in  the  (iospels  of  Mt  and  Lk.  ''immacu- 
late conception"  is  of  course  manifestly  a  blunder 
due  to  the  confusion  of  one  idea  with  another. 
"Supernatural  or  miraculous  birth"  will  not  do, 
because  there  is  no  intimation  that  the  process  of 
birth  was  in  any  way  exceptional.  "Supernatural 
or  miraculous  conception"  is  equally  unsatisfactory 
as  it  involves  a  question-begging  comparison  be- 
tween the  birth  of  Christ  and  the  exceptional  births 
of  the  Sons  of  Promise  (e.g.  Isaac,  John  the  Bap- 
tist, etc).  The  only  statement  which  is  sufficiently 
specific  is  "virgin-birth,"  inasmuch  as  according  to 
the  NT  statement  Mary  was  at  the  time  of  this 
birth  virgo  intact/i. 

II.  The  Textual  Question. — \\  e  may  deal  with 
this  division  of  our  subject  verv  briefly,  because  if 
we  are  to  allow  any  weight  at  all  to  textual  evidence 
there  is  no  question  as  to  the  infancy  narratives, 
either  in  whole  or  in  part.  Their  position  is  flaw- 
less and  unassailable.  There  is  a  voluminous  lit- 
erature devoted  to  the  discussion  of  the  subject, 
but  it  is  notably  jejune  even  for  critical  writing,  and 
much  more  impressive  for  ingenuity  and  dialectic 
skill  in  arguing  a  poor  case  than  for  anything  in 
the  way  of  results.  We  do  not  hesitate  to  refer  the 
reader  who  is  interested  in  discussions  of  this  sort 
to  entirely  satisfactory  reviews  of  them  found  else- 
where (see  Maehen,  Princeton  Jfericiv,  October, 
190o;  January,  190(5;  and  Orr,  The  Virgin  Birth 
of  Chrixt).  We  may  summarize  the  entire  dis- 
cussion in  the  words  of  Johannes  Weiss  (Theolo- 
(jische  Rundschau,  190.'},  20S,  quoted  by  Maehen, 
ut  sup.):  ''There  never  were  forms  of  Alt  and  Lk 
without  the  infancy  narratives."  One  point  only 
we  shall  consider  in  this  connection;  namely,  the 
disputed  reading  of  Mt  1  1(5.  The  Ferrar  group  of 
MSS  (nos.  34(5,  o/>(5,  X2(i,  828)  interpose  a  second 
"begat"  between  the  names  Joseph  and  Jesus. 
It  is  affirmed  that  this  reading  with  the  variants 
represents  an  original  form  of  the  genealogy  pre- 
served in  the  (iospels  which  affirms  the  literal  son- 
ship  of  Jesus  to  Joseph.  The  first  and  most  obvious 
remark  to  be  made  upon  this  question  is,  granting — 
what  is  extremely  uncertain — that  this  reading  is 
original,  it  does  not  prove  nor  begin  to  prove  the 
point  alleged.  This  is  now  widely  conceded.  For 
one  thing,  the  word  "begat"  is  used  elsewhere  for 
legal  or  putative  fatherhood  (cf  ver  12  and  see 
GKXKALOGY  OF  JESUS  CHRIST).  Allen's  statement 
of  the  case  indicates  clearly  enough  that  the  radical 


use  of  this  variation  has  broken  down  (see  ICC, 
''Matthew,"  8).  This  writer  holds  that  the  read- 
ing of  S  1  ("Jacob  begat  Joseph.  Joseph,  to  whom 
was  betrothed  Mary  the  Virgin,  begat  Jesus,  called 
the  Messiah,"  Mt  1  16)  is  nearest  the  original  form. 
By  four  steps,  which  he  enumerates  in  order,  he;  con- 
ceives that  the  original  text,  which  was  intended  to 
convey  the  idea  of  a  lc(/<tl  fatherhood  on  the  part 
of  Joseph,  was  modified  so  as  to  guard  the  state- 
ment from  misinterpretation.  This  hypothesis  is 
ingenious  if  somewhat  complicated.  The  weak 
spot  in  the  whole  case  (for  the  variation)  lies  in  the 
fact  that  all  MSS  concur  in  the  name  of  Mary  and 
the  term  "virgin."  It  is  evident,  in  any  view  of  the 
relative  standing  of  the  various  readings,  (1)  that 
the  genealogy  as  deposited  in  public  or  private 
record  would  read:  "Jacob  begat  Joseph,  Joseph 
begat  Jesus,"  (2)  that  the  person  who  used  the 
genealogy  in  the  Gospel  and  placed  it  in  connection 
with  vs  IS  2,~)  (<i)  had  Mary  particularly  in  mind 
and  inserted  the  names  of  women  to  prepare  the 
way  for  the  mention  of  Mary,  all  of  which  was  a 
departure  from  usual  and  orderly  procedure;  (!>) 
that  he  used  the  word  "begat"  in  the  legal  sense 
throughout  (vs  s.  12;  cf  1  Ch  3  11.12.19);  (c)  that 
he  believed  in  the  virgin-birth  as  evinced  by  the 
connection  and  the  use  of  names  of  women  in- 
cluding Mary's.  Then1  is  therefore  no  ba^is  for 
the  idea  that  the  genealogy,  even  without  the 
strongly  attested  relative1  clause  of  1  1(5,  ever 
meant  anything  but  an  attestation  of  the  virgin- 
birth. 

///.  The  Historical  Question. — The  twofold  birth 
announcement  of  Mt  and  Lk  is  a  statement  of  his- 
torical or,  more  strictly  speaking, 
1.  State-  biographical  fact.  The  accounts,  as 
ment  Not  we;  shall  sec1,  are  very  rigidly  confined 
Dogmatic  to  the  matter  of  fact  concerned.  It  is 
but  Vital  not  a  dogma  and  receives  very  little 
as  History  doctrinal  elaboration  even  in  the  in- 
fancy narratives  themselves.  It  is 
an  event,  wholly  real  or  wholly  imaginary.  The 
statement  of  it  is  wholly  true  or  entirely  false.  But 
as  a  historical  statement  this  narrative  is  of  pecul- 
iar quality  and  significance1.  (1)  It  touches  upon 
the  most  delicate  matters,  at  a  place  where  the  line 
between  that  which  is  most  sacred  and  that  which 
is  most  degraded  in  human  life  is  closely  drawn. 
To  discredit  it  leaves  the  most  intimate  mystery  of 
Our  Lord's  earthly  life1  under  the  shadow  of  sus- 
picion. It  is  therefore  a  statement  of  the  greatest 
personal  moment  in  the  evangelic;  record.  (2)  It 
involves  the  secret  history  and  public  honor  of  a 
family  most  dear  and  sacred  to  the  entire1  Christian 
body.  It  records  the  inner  and  outer  experiences 
of  the  mother  of  the  Lord  and  of  His  brethren, 
themselves  honored  leaders  in  the  church.  (3)  It 
touches_  upon  the  central  mystery  of  the  Lord's 
person  in  such  a  way  as  to  involve  either  a  very 
important  contribution  to  the  doctrine  of  the  incar- 
nation or  a  very  serious  mutilation  of  the  truth. 
We  may  dismiss  altogether  the  contention  of  many, 
that  whether  true  or  not  the  fact  is  of  no  great  im- 
portance. It  must  be  of  importance.  No  fact  in 
which  the  relationship  of  Jesus  to  His  ancestors 
according  to  the  flesh,  to  His  mother,  to  the  laws 
of  life  in  the  race-  at  large,  are  so  evidently  and  so 
deeply  involved  can  possibly  be  a  matter  of  in- 
difference. The  nature  of  His  experience  in  the 
world,  the  quality  and  significance  of  His  manhood, 
the  fundamental  constitution  of  His  person,  the 
nature  and  limits  of  the  incarnation  are  necessarily 
and  vitally  concerned  in  the  discussion.  It  is  im- 
possible to  begin  with  the  acceptance  or  rejection 
of  the  fact  and  arrive  by  logical  processes  at  like 
convictions  on  any  fundamental  matter  in  the 
region  of  Christology. 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA          Virgin-Birth 


All  this  must  have  been  as  patent  to  the  earliest 
believers  as  to  ourselves.  The  men  who  incorpo- 
rated this  incident  into  the  gospel  nar- 
2.  Its  Im-  rative  could  not  possibly  have  been 
portance  to  blind  to  the  importance  of  what  they 
Leaders  of  were  doing  (cf  Lk  1  .']).  In  view  of 
the  Early  these  facts  it  would  be  well  for  the 
Church  serious  student  to  ask  himself  this 

question:  "On  the  hypothesis  of  in- 
vention, what  manner  of  men  were  they  who  fab- 
ricated these  narratives  and  succeeded  in  foisting 
them  upon  the  church  so  early  as  to  dominate  its 
earliest:  official  records  and  control  1  IK;  very  making 
of  all  its  creeds?"  It  is  clear  that  deliberate  inven- 
tion is  the  only  alternative  to  historical  credit. 
We  may  throw  out  of  court  as  altogether  inad- 
missible the  hypothesis  that  the  church  as  a  whole, 
by  a  naive  and  semi-unconscious  process,  came  to 
believe  these  stories  and  to  accept  them  without 
criticism.  Rumors  always  grow  in  the  absence  of 
known  facts,  esp.  where  curiosity  is  keen.  Absurd 
rumors  multiply  among  the  credulous.  But  no 
statement  contrary  to  natural  expectation  was  ever 
yet  promulgated  among  people  of  even  average 
intelligence  without  meeting  the  resistance  of  in- 
credulity on  the  part  of  some  individuals  who  wish 
to  inquire,  esp.  if  means  of  verification  are  within 
reach.  In  this  particular  instance,  the  issue  may  be 
stated  much  more  sharply.  At  no  period  reason- 
ably to  be  assigned  for  the  origin  and  incorporation 
of  these  documents  could  they  have  been  honestly 
accepted  by  any  member  of  the  Christian  commu- 
nity, sufficiently  taught  to  occupy  a  position  of 
authority.  If  the  story  was  invented,  there  must 
have  been  a  time  when  Jesus  was  universally  ac- 
cepted as  the  son  by  natural  generation  of  Joseph 
and  Mary.  The  story  surely  was  not  invented  be- 
fore His  birth  nor  for  some  time  after.  The  first 
person,  therefore,  who  spoke  contrary  to  the  prev- 
alent and  natural  belief  must  have  had  it  from  the 
family,  which  alone  knew  the  truth,  or  else  have 
been  a  wanton  and  lying  gossip.  Such  a  story  is 
recognizable  on  the  face  of  it  as  authoritative  or 
pure  invention.  There  is  no  middle  ground.  It 
could  not  have  been  recounted  without  being 
challenged  for  its  strangeness  and  for  its  contra- 
vention of  the  accepted  belief.  It  could  not  have 
been  challenged  without  the  exposure  of  its  ground- 
less and  fraudulent  character,  for  the  simple  reason 
that  the  lack  of  positive  and  authoritative  cer- 
tification would  be  its  immediate  and  sufficient 
condemnation.  It  is  not  difficult  to  draw  the  por- 
trait of  the  inventor  of  this  story.  He  must  have 
been  lacking,  not  only  in  the  sense  of  truthfulness, 
but  also  in  the  elementary  instinct  of  delicacy,  to 
have  invaded  the  privacy  of  the  most  sacred  home 
known  to  him  and  deliberately  invented  a  narrative 
which  included  the  statement  that  Mary  had  come 
under  suspicion  of  wrongdoing  in  such  a  way  as  to 
shadow  the  life  of  her  Son.  He  must  also  have  been 
doct finally  lax  in  the  extreme,  as  well  as  tempera- 
mentally presumptuous,  to  have  risked  a  mutila- 
tion of  the  truth  by  an  invention  dealing  with  such 
essential  matters. 

Moreover,  this  hypothesis  demands  that  this 
fabrication  must  have  met  with  instantaneous  and 
universal  success.  It  passed  the  scru- 
3.  Hypothe-  tiny  of  the  church  at  large  and  of  its 
sis  of  In-  authorized  teachers,  and  was  never 
vention  challenged  save  by  a  small  group  of 

Discredits      heretics    who    disliked    it    on    purely 
the  Church    dogmatic  grounds. 

To  whatever  origin  in  the  way  of  suggestion  from 
without  one  may  attribute  the  story — whether  one  may 
ascribe  it  to  the  influence  of  OT  prophecy,  or  Jewish 
Messianic  expectations  in  general,  or  to  ethnic  analogies. 
Bab.  Kgyp  or  C!r — the  fact  remains  that  the  story  had 


to  be  invented  and  published  by  those  who  ought  to 
have  known  better  and  could  easily  have;  known  better 
had  they  possessed  sufTlcicnt  interest  in  the  cause 
of  truth  to  have  made  even  casual  inquiries  into  the  cre- 
dentials of  such  an  important  statement  offered  for  their 
acceptance.  It  is  fairly  true  to  say  that  ethnic  anal- 
ogies for  the  birth  of  Christ  fail  (see  art.  on  "Heathen 
Wonder-Births  and  the  Birth  of  Christ,"  1'nncHon 
Rrrirw,  January,  1UOS).  Jt  is  also  true  that  the  rooted 
Sera  conviction  shared  by  the  Hebrews,  that  family 
descent  is  to  be  traced  through  the  male  line  only,  so 
persistent  even  among  the  N'T  writers  that  both  evan- 
gelists, on  the  face  of  them,  trace  the  lineage  of 
Joseph,  would  have  acted  as  an  effectual  barrier  against 
this  particular  legendary  development.  It  is  further 
true  that  no  passage  of  the  OT,  including  Isa  7  11,  can 
be  adduced  as  convincing  evidence  that  the  story  was 
invented  under  the  motive  of  finding  fulfilment  for 
Messianic  predictions  (see  I  MM ANCKU.  But  far  more 
satisfactory  is  the  elementary  conviction  that  the 
founders  of  the  Christian  church  and  the  writers  of  its 
documents  were  not  the  kind  of  men  to  accept  or  cir- 
culate stories  which  they  knew  perfectly  well  would  be 
used  by  unbelief  in  a  malignant  way  to  the  discredit 
of  their  Master  and  His  family.  The  hypothesis  of 
invention  not  only  leaves  an  ugly  cloud  of  mystery  over 
the  birth  of  Jesus,  but  it  discredits  beyond  repair  every 
man  who  had  to  do  with  the  writing  and  circulation  o'f 
the  Gospels,  down  to  and  including  the  man  who  pro- 
fesses to  have  "traced  the  course  of  all  things  accu- 
rately from  the  beginning,"  according  to  the  testimony 
of  those  who  were  "eyewitnesses  and  ministers  of  the 
word"  (Lk  1  2  f).  It  is  simply  impossible  to  save  the 
credit,  in  any  matter  involving  honesty  or  common- 
sense,  of  one  who  uses  words  like  these  and  yet  incor- 
porates unauthenticated  legends  into  the  narrative  to 
which  he  has  thus  pledged  himself. 

_  One  may  venture  at  the  close  of  this  section  of  the 
discussion  to  point  out  that  everything  which  the 
inventor  of  this  story  must  have  been,  the  narrators 
of  it  are  not.  Both  narratives  exhibit  a  profound 
reverence,  a  chaste  and  gracious  reserve;  in  the 
presence  of  a  holy  mystery,  a  simplicity,  dignity 
and  self-contained  nobility  of  expression  which  are 
the  visible  marks  of  truth,  if  such  there  are  any- 
where in  human  writing. 

IV.  The  Critical  Question. — The  infancy  narra- 
tives evidently  stand  somewhat  apart  from  the  main 

body  of  apostolic  testimony.  The  per- 
1.  Basis  of  sonal  contact  of  the  disciples  with 
Virgin-Birth  Jesus,  upon  which  their  testimony  pri- 
Statement  marily  rests,  extended  from  the  call  of 

the  disciples,  near  the  opening  of  the 
ministry,  to  the  resurrection  and  post-resurrection 
appearances.  It  is  hyper-skepticism  to  deny  that 
the  substance  of  the  gospel  narrative  rests  upon  the 
basis  of  actual  experience.  But  all  four  evangelists 
show  a  disposition  to  supplement  the  immediate 
testimony  of  the  disciples  by  the  use  of  other  well- 
attested  materials.  Luke's  introductory  paragraph, 
if  it  was  written  by  an  honest  man,  indicates  that 
he  at  least  was  satisfied  with  nothing  less  than  a 
careful  scrutiny  of  original  sources,  viz.  the  testi- 
mony, written  or  oral,  of  eyewitnesses.  It  may 
reasonably  be  surmised  that  this  was  the  general 
attitude  of  the  entire  group  of  apostles,  evangelists 
and  catechists  who  are  responsible  for  the  author- 
ship and  circulation  of  the  Gospels. 

But,  to  say  nothing  of  the  infancy  narratives,  for 
one  of  which  Luke  himself  is  responsible,  these  writers 
have  embodied  in  the  narrative  the  ministry  of  John  the 
Baptist,  the  baptism  and  temptation  of  Jesus,  all  of 
which  events  happened  before  their  fellowship  with 
Jesus,  strictly  speaking,  began.  In  particular,  assuredly 
no  disciple  was  an  eyewitness  of  the;  temptation.  None 
the  less  the  narrative  stands,  simply  because  imaginative 
invention  of  such  an  incident  in  the  absence  of  accred- 
ited facts  cannot  reasonably  be  considered.  The  fact 
that  the  birth  narratives  do  not  rest  upon  the  testimony 
of  the  same  eyewitnesses  who  stand  for  the  ministry  of 
Jesus  does  not  discredit  them  as  embodying  reliable 
tradition,  unless  it  can  be  proved  that  they  contradict 
the  rest  of  the  apostolic  testimony  or  that  no  reliable 
witness  to  the  events  in  question  was  within  reach  at 
the  time  when  the  documents  were  composed.  In  the 
present  instance  such  a  contention  is  absurd.  The 
very  nature  of  the  event  points  out  the  inevitable  first- 
hand witnesses.  There  could  be  no  others.  In  the 
absence  of  their  decisive  word,  bald  invention  would 
be  necessary.  To  charge  the  entire  church  of  the  time 
(for  this  is  what  the  hypothesis  amounts  to)  as  particeps 


Virgin-Birth 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3054 


rriinim'x  in  its  o\vn  oflicial  and  documentary  deception 
is  an  extreme  position  as  unwarranted  as  it  is  cruel. 

The  internal  harmony  of  (he  facts  as  recorded 
points  in  the  same  direction.  The  silence  or  com- 
parative lack  of  emphasis  with  reference  to  the  birth 
of  Christ  on  the  part,  of  the  other  XT  writers  is  to 
be  explained  partly  on  the  basis  of  doctrinal  view- 
point, (sco  V,  below)  and  partly  because  an  ingrained 
sense  of  delicacy  would  naturally  lend  to  reticence 
on  this  point,  at  least  during  the  lifetime  of  Mary 
and  the  Lord's  brethren.  The  following  intimately 
corresponding  facts  are  sufficiently  significant  in 
this  connection:  (1)  that  the  fact  of  Jesus'  unique 
birth  could  not  be  proclaimed  as  a  part  of  His  own 
teaching  or  as  the  basis  of  Jlis  incarnate  life;  (-)  that. 
He  was  popularly  known  as  the  son  of  Joseph;  (3) 
that  the  foster-fatherhood  of  Joseph,  as  embodied 
in  the  genealogy  (see  (  IK\K.VL<H;Y  OF  JESUS  CHRIST), 
was  the  recognized  basis  of  His  relationship  to  the 
house  of  David.  All  these  facts  appear  just  as 
tiny  should  in  the  narrative.  The  very  fact  that, 
the  genealogies,  ending  with  the  name  of  Joseph, 
and  the  current  representations  of  Jesus  as  Joseph's 
son,  are  allowed  to  appear  in  the  same  documents 
in  which  the  virgin-birth  statements  appear,  to- 
gether with  the  entirely  congruous  facts  that  the 
main  synoptic  narrative  does  not  emphasize  the 
event ,  and  t  hat  licit  her  Paul  nor  John  nor  any  ot  her 
XT  writer  gives  it  a  prominent  place,  is  indication 
enough  that  it  rest  oil,  in  the  opinion  of  the  entire 
witnessing  body,  on  a  sufficient  basis  of  evidence  and 
required  no  artificial  buttressing.  Infernal  liar- 
monies  and  incidental  marks  of  truthfulness  are  of 
the  utmost  importance  here  because  in  a  narrative 
so  complex  and  vital  it  would  have  been  easy  to 
make  a  misstep.  Since  none  was  made,  we  are  con- 
strained to  believe  that  the  single  eye  to  truth  filled 
the  apostolic  mind  with  light.  Every  item,  in  the 
infancy  narratives  themselves,  as  well  as  in  the  more 
strictly  doctrinal  statements  of  other  XT  books,  is 
as  we  should  expect,  provided  the  birth  statement 
be  accepted  as  true.  Internal  evidence  of  truthful- 
ness could  not  be  stronger. 

This  general  conclusion  is  confirmed  when  we 
come  to  consider  the  relationship  of  the  two  narra- 
tives to  each  other.  To  begin  with,  we 
2.  Inter-  have  two  narratives,  differing  greatly 
relation-  in  method  of  treatment,  grouping  of 
ship  of  details,  order  and  motive  of  narration, 

Narratives     and    general   atmosphere.     It    is    evi- 
dent   that    we    have    two    documents 
which  have  had  quite  a  different  history. 

In  two  points,  at  any  rate,  what  might  be  considered 
serious  discrepancies  are  discoverable  (see  DISCREPAN- 
CIES, ItniLic'Ai.).  These  two  points  are:  (I)  the  rela- 
tionship of  the  Massacre  of  the  Innocents  and  the  jour- 
ney to  Kgypt,  as  related  by  Matthew,  to  Luke's  account, 
which  carries  the  holy  family  directly  back  to  Nazareth 
from  Hethlehem  after  tin;  presentation  in  the,  temple; 
(2)  the  discrepancy  as  to  the  previous  residence  at, 
Nazareth  (Lk)  and  the  reason  given  for  the  return 
thither  (Mt).  As  to  (1)  il  is  quite  clear  that  Mat- 
thew's account  centers  about  an  episode  interpolated,  so 
to  say,  into  the  natural  order  of  events  (see  1  NMICKNTS, 
MASSACRE  OF  THK).  It  is  also  clear  that  the  order  of 
Luke's  narrative,  which  is  in  the  highest  degree  condensed 
and  synoptic,  does  not  forbid  the  introduction  of  even 
a  lengthy  train  of  events  into  the,  midst  of  ver  3!)  (ef 
condensation  in  ys  40-42.51.52).  It  may  easily  be 
that  the  lacunae  in  each  account  are  duo  to  a  lack  of 
knowledge  on  the  part  of  either  writer  as  to  the  point 
supplied  by  the  other.  Matthew  may  not  have  known 
that  the  family  had  resided  formerly  in  Nazareth,  and 
Luke  may  not' have  known  that  a  return  to  Galilee  as 
a  permanent  residence  was  not  contemplated  in  the 
original  plan.  Tho  difficulty  here  is  not  serious.  We 
consider  tho  discrepancy  as  'it  stands  as  of  more  value 
to  the  account  as  indicating  the  independence  of  tho 
two  accounts  and  the  honesty  of  those  who  incorporated 
them  into  tho  Gospels  without  attempting  to  harmo- 
nize them,  than  any  hypothetical  harmonization  however 
satisfactory.  We  introduce  this  caveat,  however,  that 
Matthew  had  an  especial  reason  for  introducing  tho 
episode  connected  with  Herod  and  for  explaining  the 
residence  at  Nazareth  during  Our  Lord's  early  years 


\Ve  are  now  free  to  consider  the  remarkable  con- 
vergence of  these  two  documents.  The  following 
particulars  may  be  urged:  (1)  tho  synchronism  in 
tho  Ilerodian  era;  (2)  the  name  "Jesus"  given  by 
Divine  authority  before  birth;  (3)  Davidic  kinship; 
(4)  tho  virgin-birth;  (">)  the  birth  at  Bethlehem; 
((>)  residence  at  Nazareth.  In  addition  we  may 
urge  the  essential  and  peculiar  harmony  of  descrip- 
tive expressions  (see  V,  below)  and  the  correspond- 
ence of  the  inner  and  outer  experiences  of  Mary 
(sec  MAKV,  II). 

Wo  have  now  reached  the  final  and  crucial  point 
of  this  phase  of  our  discussion  when  wo  take  up  the 
question  as  to  the  sourc.es,  origin  and 
3.  Sources,  date  of  these  narratives.  Our  method 
Origin  and  of  approach  to  the  general  question  of 
Age  of  their  credibility  delivers  tis  from  the 

Documents  necessity  of  arguing  in  cxtcnxo  the 
theories  which  have  been  framed  to 
account  for  the  narrative'  in  the  absence  of  historical 
fact.  We  resort  to  the  simple  and  convincing  prin- 
ciple that  tho  story  could  not  have  been  honestly 
composed  nor  honestly  published  as  derived  from  any 
source  other  than  tho  persons  who  could  have  guar- 
anteed its  trustworthiness.  Every  indication,  of 
which  the  narratives  are  full,  of  honesty  and  intelli- 
gence on  the  part  of  the  narrators  is  an  argument 
against  any  and  all  theories  which  presuppose  a 
fictitious  origin  for  the  central  statement.  Nega- 
tively, we  may  with  confidence  assert  that  wide 
excursions  into  ethnic  mythology  and  folklore  have 
failed  to  produce  a  single;  authentic  parallel  either 
in  fact  or  in  form  to  the  infancy  narratives.  In 
addition  to  this,  tho  attempt  to  deduce  the  story 
from  Messianic  prophecy  also  fails  to  justify  itself. 
In  addition,  there  are  two  considerations  which  may 
justly  be  urged  as  pointing  to  trustworthy  sources 
for  the  narrative:  First,  the  strongly  Hebraic  nature 
of  both  narratives.  It  has  often  been  pointed  out 
that  nowhere  in  the  XT  do  we  find  documents  so 
deeply  tinged  with  the  Hebraic  spirit  (see  Adeney, 
/•.'.v.sv/y.s-  fur  the  Titncx,  no.  XI,  2  1-  f ;  and  Briggs,  New 
Li</lilx  on  the.  Life  of  Chrixt,  1C) I  f).  This  statement 
involves  both  narratives  and  is  another  evidence  of 
profound  internal  unity.  A  second  important  fact 
is  that  the  doctrinal  viewpoint  is  Jewish-Christian 
and  undeveloped.  The  term  "Holy  Spirit"  is  used 
in  tho  OT  sense;  the  Christology  is  undeveloped, 
omitting  reference  to  Christ's  preexist  once  and  in- 
terpreting His  sonship  as  official  and  ethical  rather 
than  metaphysical.  Tho  soteriology  is  Jewish  and 
Messianic,  not  unfolding  the  doctrine;  of  the  cross. 
All  those  facts  point  in  one  direction,  namely,  to 
the  conclusion  that  these  documents  are  early.  It  is 
impossible  reasonably  to  suppose  that  such  docu- 
ments could  have  been  composed  in  the  absence  of 
sources,  or  by  persons  devoid  of  the  historical  spirit , 
after  the  death  and  resurrection  and  ascension  of 
Jesus  had  shed  such  light  upon  His  person  and  mis- 
sion as  to  transform  both  Christology  and  soteriology 
through  the  ideas  of  incarnation,  atonement  and 
the  Trinity. 

It  is  still  asserted,  in  the  face  of  tho  most  convincing 
evidence  to  the  contrary,  that  the  infancy  narratives 
are  late  addenda  to  the  gospel  tradition  as  a  whole. 
This  idea  is  due,  primarily,  to  a  confusion  of  thought 
between  origin  and  publication.  The  latter  must  have 
been  coincident  with  the  original  issue  of  the  Gospels 
in  their  present  form.  The  textual  evidence  here  is 
convincing.  On  the  other  hand,  the  main  body  of  testi- 
mony incorporated  into  the  Gospels  at  the  time  of 
their  publication  had  boon  in  tho  hands  of  the  apostles 
and  their  helpers  for  some  years,  as  evidenced  by  the 
Pauline  letters  and  the  Book  of  Acts.  In  all  probability 
the  sources  upon  which  the  infancy  narratives  rest, 
which  had  their  origin  and  received  the  impress  which 
characterizes  them  in  the  period  antecedent  to  the 


3or,r> 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Virgin-Birth 


public  ministry  of  .Irsiis,  came;  into  tho  hands  of  the 
Gospel  writers  toward  the  end  of  the  formative-  period 
at  the,  close  of  which  t  lie  ( iospels  were  issued.  In  other 
words,  thi!  story  of  the  Lord's  birth  was  withheld  until 
the  time  was  ripe  for  its  publication.  Two  occasions 
may  have  served  to  release;  it:  the  death  of  Mary  may 
have  made  it  possible  to  use  her  private  memoirs,  or 
tin1,  rise  of  anti-Christian  calumny  may  have  made  tin; 
publication  of  (hi;  trim  history 'imperative.  At  any 
rate,  the  narratives  show  every  indication  of  being 
contemporary  documents  of  the  period  with  which  they 
deal.  This  fact  puts  an  additional  burden  of  proof, 
already  heavier  than  they  can  bear,  upon  those  who 
would  antagonize  the  documents.  We  may  reasonably 
atlirm  that  the  narratives  will  bear  triumphantly  any 
fair  critical  test. 

V.    The  Doctrinal  Question. — The  discussion  of 
tin-  doctrinal  significance  of  t  he  virgin-birth  state- 
ment, falls  naturally  into  three  purls: 
1.  In  (1)  its  doctrinal  elaboration  in  the  NT; 

the  NT  (2)  its  historic  function  in  the  develop- 

ment of  Christian  doctrine;  0$)  its  per- 
manent value  to  Christ  ian  thought.  \\"(>  begin  wit  h 
the  narratives  themselves.  As  has  just,  been  said, 
they  were  incorporated  into  the  (lospels  at  a  time 
when  the  NT  Christ  ology  had  reached  maturity  in 
the  Pauline  and  Johannine  writings  and  the  Ep.  to 
the  He.  The  doctrine  of  the  incarnation  was  fully 
unfolded.  It  had  been  unequivocally  asserted  that 
in  Jesus  all  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  was  his- 
torically and  personally  manifested  (Jn  1  14;  Phil 
2  5-8;  Col  1  IS;  29;  He  2  14).  In  contrast 
with  these  statements  the  infancy  narratives  not 
only,  as  adverted  to  above1,  exhibit  on  the  surface 
a  rudimentary  Christ ology,  but  in  several  items,  of 
profound  hit  (Test  and  most  surprising  tenor,  show 
that  the  birth  notice  was  not  apprehended  or  stated 
in  view  of  the  doctrine  of  the  incarnation  at  all. 

Tho  detailed  justification  of  this  statement  follows: 
(1)  Matthew  (see  1  1S-25)  does  not  list;  the  term  "Son 
of  God."  The  only  expression  implying  a  unique  rela- 
tionship to  God,  other  than  in  the  "of  Holy  Spirit" 
phrase,  twice,  used,  is  in  the  word  "  Immanuel"  quoted 
from  Isa,  which  does  not  necessarily  involve  incarnation. 
At  the  beginning  of  the-  genealogy  Jesus  is  introduced 
as  the  son  of  David,  the  son  of  Abraham.  (2)  The 
assertion  as  to  His  conception  by  Holy  Spirit  is  condi- 
tioned by  three  striking  facts:  (a)  His  conception  is 
interpreted  in  terms  of  conception  by  the  power  of 
Holy  Spirit,  not  of  begetting  by  the  Father.  The  OT 
expression  "  This  day  have  I  begotten  thee,"  used  twice, 
occurs  in  quite  a  diirerent  connection  (He  15;  5  •r>). 
(/))  The  term  "Holy  Spirit"  is  used  without  the  article. 
(<•)  The  phrase  descriptive  of  the  being  conceived  is 
expressed  in  the  neuter,  '  the  thing  conceived  in  her  is  of 

Holy  Spirit'  (TO  yap  ev  avrfj  yevvyOev  eK  Tri-eii/ma-rds '  corn'  ayiov, 
to  ijdr  I'll  ant':  yen n fttien  el;  jincitmati'm  extin  hayiou). 
The  implication  of  these  three  facts  is  (i)  that 
the  sonship  of  Jesus  through  His  exceptional  birth  is 
interpreted  in  terms  of  Divine  power  working  upon 
humanity,  not  as  the  correlative  of  Divine  and  essential 
fatherhood;  it  is  the  historical  sonship  that  is  in  view 
(contrast  with  this  the  two  passages  in  He  referred  to 
above);  (ii)  the  writer  is  speaking  in  the  OT  sense  of 
"  Holy  Spirit"  as  the  forthgonig  of  creative  power  from 
God,  not  as  personal  hypostasis;  (iii)  lie,  is  also  emphasiz- 
ing (in  the  use  of  the  neuter)  the  reality  of  the  physical 
birth.  These  three  facts,  all  the  more  remarkable 
because  they  are  attributed  to  a  heavenly  messenger 
who  might  be  expected  to  speak  more  fully  concerning 
tho  mystery,  exclude,  tin;  supposition  that  we  have  one 
historic;  form  of  the  doctrine  of  incarnation.  On  tin; 
contrary,  had  we  no  other  statements  than  those  found 
here  we  should  be  unable  logically  to  postulate  an  in- 
carnation. Kvery  statement  made  concerning  Jesus, 
apart  from  the  virgin-birth  statement  itself,  might  be 
'true  were;  He  the  son  of  Joseph  and  Mary. 

The  case  is  far  stronger  when  we  turn  to  Luke's 
account,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  the  terms  "Son  of  the 
Most  High"  and  "Son  of  God"  ordinarily  implying 
incarnation  an;  used.  We  notice  (rf)  that  the  anarthrous 
use  of  "Holy  Spirit"  reappears  and  that  a  poetic  parallel- 
ism defines  the  term  (yer  35),  making  "Holy  Spirit"  = 
"  Power  of  the  Most  High";  (<•)  that  the  neuter  phrase; 
is  also  found  here,  "the;  holy  thing  which  is  be-gotten," 
etc  (Sib  Kal  TO  ytwiafievov  iiyiov  KA>)0>)<7eTai,  dio  kal  to 
gennomenon  hdr/ion  ktfthfsetai)',  (/)  that  future  tense's 
are  useel  in  connection  with  His  career  and  tho  title's 
which  He  bears:  "  He  shall  be  [as  the;  outcome  of  a  pre>c- 
ess]  great,"  and  "  He  shall  be  calle'd  [as  a  matter  of  ulti- 
mate titular  recognition]  tho  Son  of  tho  Most  High" 
(ver  32);  "The  holy  thing  ....  shall  be  called  tho 
Son  of  God"  (ver  35).  In  these  instances  the  title-  is 
connected  directly  with  the  career  rather  than  the  birth. 


10 ven  the  "wherefore"  e>f  ver  35,  in  connection  with  the; 
future;  vb.,  carries  the-  power  of  Goel  manifested  in  the 
holy  conception  forward  into  the  entire  career  e>f  Jesus 
rather  than  bases  (hi;  career  upon  the'  initial  miracle. 
These;  three  fae'ts  taken  together  exclude-  the  reference 
to  any  conception  e>f  t  he  incarnation.  The  in  earn  at  ion 
is  directly  and  inseparably  e'onnee-led  with  Christ's 
eternal  sonship  te>  the;  Father.  The:  title  "Son  of  Cod" 
includes  that  but  does  not  specify  it.  It  includes  also 
the;  ethical,  historical,  human  sonship.  The  term  "  Holy 
Spirit"  use-el  without  the  article;  alse>  is  a  comprehensive 
expression  cove-ring  both  a  work  eif  Divine  powe-r  in 
any  sphere  and  a  work  eif  Divine-  grace  in  the  personal 
sphere  only. 

These  accounts  are  concerned  with  the  historic 
fact  rather  than  its  metaphysical  implications. 
'1'h is  historic  fact  is  interpreted  in  terms  of  a  Divine 
power  in  and  through  the  human  career  of  Jesus 
(which  is  so  stated  as  to  include  an  impersonal, 
germinal  lifej  rather  than  a  dogmatic  definition  of 
the  Messiah's  essential  nature.  The  omission  of  all 
reference  to  preexistence  is  negatively  conclusive 
on  this  point.  The  Divine  power  manifested  in  His 
exceptional  origin  is  thought  of  as  extending  on  and 
including  His  entire  career.  This  leads  us  directly 
to  a  second  phase  in  the  interpretation  of  Christ 
and  compels  to  a  reconsideration  at  a  new  angle 
of  the  miracle  of  His  origin. 

The  narrators  of  the  life  and  ministry  of  Jesus 
on  the  basis  of  ascertained  fact  and  apostolic  testi- 
mony were;  confronted  with  a  very 
2.  Portrait  definite  and  delicate  task.  They  had 
of  Jesus  in  to  tell  with  unexaggerating  truthful- 
Synoptic  ness  the  story  of  the  human  life  of 
Gospels  Jesus.  Their  ultimate  aim  was  to 
justify  the  doctrine  of  incarnation,  but 
they  could  not  have  been  unaware  that  the  genuine 
and  sincere  humanity  of  Christ  was  a  pillar  of  the 
doe-trine  quite  as  mue-h  as  His  essential  Deiiy.  To 
portray  the  human  experience  of  a  being  considered 
essentially  Divine  was  the  Herculean  task  at  tempted 
and  carried  to  a  successful  issue  in  the  Synoptic, 
(lospels.  These  writers  do  not  conceal  for  a  moment 
their  conviction  that  they  are;  depicting  the  career 
of  the  wonder-working  Son  of  Clod,  but  they  never 
forget  that  it  is  a  career  of  self-limitation  within 
the  human  sphere,  the  period  of  self-imposed  and 
complete  humiliation  undertaken  on  behalf  of  the 
Father,  "for  us  men  and  for  our  salvation."  Hence 
the  nature  and  limitations  of  the  narrative.  Mark 
omits  reference  to  the  virgin-birth.  Matthew  and 
Luke  narrate  it  and  forthwith  drop  it.  These  facts 
are  exactly  on  a  par.  It  is  ne>  more  remarkable  that 
Mark  omits  the  story  than  that  Matthew  and  Luke 
make  so  lit  tie  of  it.  To  allege  either  fact  as  a  motive 
to  doubt  is  to  misinterpret  the  whole1  situal  ion.  By 
the  terms  of  their  task  they  could  do  nothing  else'-. 
The  Fourth  Cospel  and  the  Epp.  announce  that  the 
human  life  of  Jesus  was  due  to  the  voluntary  extra- 
temporal  act  of  a  preexist ent  Divine  being,  but  in 
the  synoptic  narrative  four  passages  only  hint  at 
preexistence,  and  then  as  incidental  flashes  from 
(lie  inner  consciousness  of  Jesus.  This  omission  is 
no  more  remarkable  and  no  less  so  than  the  omis- 
sions noted  above.  By  the  terms  of  their  task  the 
synoptic  writers  could  do  nothing  else.  The  fact 
of  preexistence  could  be  announced  only  when  the 
earthly  task  had  been  triumphantly  finished  (sec; 
Mk  9  9.11).  During  the  entire  period  of  the 
earthly  life  as  such  Jesus  was  under  trial  (note  Mt 
3  17,  correctly  translating  the  aorist ;  cf  the  re- 
markable words  of  Jn  10  17),  performing  a  task, 
accomplishing  a  commission,  achieving  a  victory 
as  human  son.  The  story  of  the  Temptation  ex- 
hibits the  conditions  under  which  Jesus  performed 
His  task.  The  temptations  were  one1  and  all  ad- 
dressed to  His  consciousness  as  Clod's  Son.  They 
were  resisted  on  the  sole  basis  of  self-humiliation 
and  dependence.  The  entire  synoptic  narrative  is 
consistent  with  this  representation.  Jesus  is  con- 


Virgin-Birth 
Vision 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3056 


sciously  one  hi  will  and  spirit-  with  God,  hut.  that, 
oneness  with  Clod  is  consummated  and  conducted 
in  the  Spirit,  through  faith,  hy  prayer.  They  de- 
scrihe  His  entire  career  of  holiness,  wisdom  and 
power,  each  unique,  in  the  terms  of  the  Spirit -filled, 
trustful,  prayerful  human  life.  Hero  is  the  vital 
point.  They  disclose  the  eternal  Sonship  (in  which 
beyond  question  they  believe)  on  its  ethical,  not  on 
its  metaphysical  .side,  by  prediction  of  His  future 
triumph  rather  than  by  definition  of  His  person. 
In  such  a  narrative,  consistently  carried  out,  there 
can  be  no  resort  to  the  preexistent,  eternal  Sonship, 
nor  to  the  miracle  of  His  human  origin  in  the  story 
of  His  career  under  trial.  In  particular,  the  miracle, 
whereby  His  germinal  connection  with  the  race; 
was  established  could  not  extend  to  the  personal 
and  spiritual  life  in  which  His  victory  was  His  own 
through  the;  personal  Holy  Spirit.  The  argument 
from  the  virgin-birth  to  His  sinlessness  (see  IMMA- 
CULATE COXCKPTION)  was  made  by  the  church,  not 
by  the  NT  writers.  The  sinlessness  of  Christ  was 
His  own  achievement  in  the  flesh  which  He  sacrificed 
through  His  holy  will  of  obedience  to  the  Father. 

This  leads  us  to  a  third  phase  of  development 
in  the  NT  doctrine  of  incarnation.     In  the  Fourth 

Gospel  and  the  Epp.  it  is  asserted  that 
3.  In  Rest  the  innermost  moral  significance  of  the 
of  the  NT  earthly  career  of  Jesus  lay  in  the  fact 

that  it  was  the  consistent  carrying-out 
of  an  extra-temporal  volition  of  Divine  mercy  and 
love  whereby  He  became  the  Revealer  of  God  and 
the  Saviour  of  men.  This  doctrine  is  based  upon 
the  story  of  the  human  career  completed  in  the 
glorification  which,  according  to  the  testimony, 
ensued  upon  His  death  and  disclosed  His  place 
in  the  Divine  sphere  of  being.  But  it  is  also  based 
upon  the  virgin-birth  narrative  and  grounded  in  it. 
Attention  has  already  been  called  to  the  fact  that 
the  virgin-birth  is  not  (in  the  infancy  narrative) 
connected  with  the  metaphysical  sonship  of  Jesus. 
All  that  is  said  then,  doctrinally,  concerning  Jesus 
might  be  true  were  He  the  son  of  Joseph  and  Mary. 
On  the  contrary,  what  is  said  in  Jn  and  the  Epp. 
depends  upon  the  virgin-birth  narrative  for  its 
foundational  basis.  It,  has  often  been  asserted 
that  Paul  and  John  do  not  refer  to  the  virgin-birth. 
This  statement  the  present  writer  takes  to  be  more 
than  doubtful,  but  if  it  is  true,  all  the  more  striking 
is  the  indirect  and  unconscious  testimony  to  the 
virgin-birth  involved  in  their  doctrinal  reliance  upon 
it.  According  to  these  writers  the  incarnation  was 
due  to  a  Divine  act  of  self-limitation  whereby  the 
Divine  mode  of  existence  was  exchanged  for  the 
human  (Phil  2  5^11  et  al.).  According  to  the 
infancy  narrative,  the  birth  of  Jesus  was  due  to  a 
Divine  cr/'/itire  act  whereby  a  human  life  began 
terminally  and  passed  through  the  successive  stages 
of  growth  to  maturity.  The  synoptic,  narrative 
outside  the  infancy  narrative  supplies  a  third  point, 
that  the  entire  conscious  personal  career  of  Jesus 
upon  earth  was  lived  in  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Spirit.  The  infancy  narrative  is  the  keystone  of 
an  arch,  one  half  resting  upon  the  synoptic  account, 
the  other  upon  the  doctrinal  construction  of  Jn 
and  the  Epp.  The  virgin-birth  statement  by  its 
adoption  of  OT  terminology  makes  room  for  a  Di- 
vine activity  both  in  the  impersonal  and  in  the  per- 
sonal spheres.  The  doctrine  of  incarnation  implies 
that  as  in  every  new  human  being  the  creative  Di- 
vine power  manifests  itself  impersonally  in  germinal 
beginnings,  so  in  the  life  of  Christ  the  Divine  power 
conditions  itself  within  the  impersonal  forces  of 
germinant  life  with  this  important  and_  suggestive 
difference:  In  the  career  of  Jesus  there  issues  from 
the  sphere  of  germinal  beginnings  not  a  new  human 
person  created  from  the  life-stock  of  the  race,  but  the 
personal  human  life,  including  all  human  powers, 


of  a  preexistent  Divine  person  self-conditioned  and 
self-implanted  within  the  human  sphere.  The 
central  conscious  self,  the  agent  of  His  activities 
and  the  subject  of  His  experiences  in  the  historic 
sphere  was  the  eternal  Son  of  God.  His  life  in  the 
human  sphere  was  that  of  a  true  human  being  in 
the  full  actuality  of  a  human  life.  Hence  it  follows, 
since  ordinary  generation  involves  necessarily  (that 
is  the  intent  of  it)  the  origination  of  a  new  person 
not  hitherto  existing,  that  the  birth  of  Jesus  could 
not  have  been  by  ordinary  generation.  The  birth 
of  Christ,  through  ordinary  generation  would  have 
involved  a  quite  incomprehensible  miracle,  namely, 
the  presence  and  action  of  the  ordinary  factors  in 
human  origins  with  a  contrary  and  unique  result. 
The  virgin-birth  is  the  only  key  that  tits  the  vacant 
space  in  the  arch.  In  addition  it,  may  reasonably 
be  urged  that  the  relationship  of  human  parents  to 
each  other,  ordinarily  a  natural,  necessary  and 
sacred  act,  could  have  no  part  in  this  transaction, 
while  the  very  fact  that  Mary's  relationship  was  to 
God  alone,  in  an  act  of  submission  involving  com- 
plete self-renunciation  and  solitary  enclosure  within 
the  Divine  will,  fulfils  the  spiritual  conditions  of  this 
unique  motherhood  as  no  other  imaginable  expe- 
rience could. 

Historically  the  virgin-birth  statement  performed 
a  function  commensurate  with  the  importance  as- 
cribed  to   it   in   this  discussion  rather 

4.  Opposi-     than   the  current    depreciation    of    it. 
tions  to  the   The  doctrine  of  Christ  was  menaced  in 
Doctrine        two  opposite  directions,  which  may  be 

designated  respectively  by  the  terms 
"Ehionite"  and  ''Gnostic."  According  to  the  former 
teaching  (the  word  "Ehionite"  being  used  in  a  general 
sense  only),  Jesus  was  reduced  tot  he  human  category 
and  interpreted  as  a  Spirit-led  man  or  prophet,  in  the 
OT  meaning  of  the  term.  According  to  the  opposite 
tendency,  He  was  interpreted  as  Divine,  while  His 
human  experience  was  reduced  to  mere  appearance, 
or  a  temporary  external  union  with  the  Logos.  The 
virgin-birt  h  st  at  einent  resist  ed  hot  h  t  hese  t  endencies 
with  equal  effectiveness.  On  the  one  hand,  it 
asserted  with  unequivocal  definiteness  a  real  hu- 
manity conditioned  by  true  birth  into  an  actual 
connection  with  the  race.  On  the  other  hand,  it 
asserted  an  exceptional  birth,  setting  Jesus  apart 
as  one  whose  entrance  into  the  world  was  due  to  a 
new,  creative  contact  of  God  with  the  race.  His- 
torically, it  is  difficult  to  see  how  the  NT  doctrine 
could  have  escaped  mutilation  apart  from  the  state- 
ment, seemingly  framed  with  express  reference  to 
conditions  arising  afterward,  which  so  wonderfully 
guarded  it.  The  holy  mystery  of  the  Lord's  origin 
became  the  symbol  of  the  holier  mystery  of  His 
Divine  nature.  It  thus  appears  in  every  one  of  the 
historic  creeds,  an  assertion  of  fact  around  which 
the  belief  of  the  church  crystallized  into  the  faith 
which  alone  accounts  for  its  history,  a  profound  and 
immovable  conviction  that  Jesus  Christ  was  really 
incarnate  Deity. 

The  importance  for  modern  thinking  of  the  virgin- 
birth  statement  is  threefold:    (1)  First,  it  involves 

in   general   the   question,   never  more 

5.  Its  Im-      vital  than  at  the  present  time,  of  the 
portance  to    trustworthiness  of  the  gospel  tradition. 
Modern          This   particular   fact,   i.e.   the   virgin- 
Thought         birth,  has    been    a    favorite,   because 

apparently  a  vulnerable,  point  of 
attack.  But  the  presuppositions  of  the  attack  and 
the  method  according  to  which  it  has  been  con- 
ducted involve  a  general  and  radical  undermining 
of  confidence  in  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  wit- 
nesses. This  process  has  finally  met  its  nemesis  in 
the  Christ us-myth  propaganda.  The  virgin-birth 
st  atement  (van  be  successfully  assailed  on  no  grounds 
which  do  not  involve  the  whole  witnessing  body  of 


3057 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Virgin-Birth 
Vision 


Christians  in  charges  of  blind  credulity  or  wilful 
falsification,  very  unjust,  indeed  us  respects  their 
character  and  standing  in  general,  hut  verv  difficult 
to  repel  in  view  of  the  results  of  denial  at  this 
point. 

(2)  The  virgin-birth  is  important  for  the  simple 
historical  reason  that,  it  involves  or  is  involved  in  a 
clear  and  consistent  account  of  the  Lord's  birth  and 
early  years.  Apart  from  the  infancy  narratives 
we  are  utterly  without  direct  information  as  to  His 
birth,  ancestry  or  early  years.  Apart  from  those 
narrat  ives  we  have  no  information  as  to  t  he  marriage 
of  Joseph  and  Mary;  we  are  shut  up  to  vague  infer- 
ences as  to  this  entire  period.  No  biographer  ever 
leaves  these  points  obscure  if  he  can  avoid  it.  It  is 
very  earnestly  suggested  that  those  who  cast  dis- 
credit upon  the  infancy  story  do  not  clearly  recog- 
nize the  seriousness  of  the  situation  brought  about 
in  the  absence  of  any  narrat  ive  which  can  be  1  rust  ed 
as  to  this  vital  point.  Calumny  there  is  and  has 
been  from  an  early  day.  If  there  is  nowhere  an 
authoritative  answer  to  the  calumny,  in  what  sort 
of  a  position  is  the  Christian  believer  placed?  He 
can  assert  nothing,  because  apart  from  what  he  has 
too  lightly  thrown  away  he  knows  nothing. 

(3)  Lastly,  the  more  closely  the  statement  as  to 
the  Lord's  birth  is  studied,  the  more  clearly  it  will 
be  seen  that  it  involves  in  a  most  vital  and  central 
way  the  entire  doctrine  of  the  incarnation.  This 
doctrine  is  an  interpretation  of  facts.  Those  facts 
stand  together.  In  the  midst  of  those  facts,  har- 
monizing with  them,  shedding  light  upon  them  and 
receiving  light  from  them,  resting  upon  the  same 
consentient,  testimony  is  the  statement,  which  is 
thus  worded  in  the  oldest  symbol  of  our  historical 
faith:  "Conceived  by  the  Holy  Chost,  Born  of  the 
Virgin  Mary"  (see  APOSTLES'  CREED).  There  is 
no  adequate  reason  why  the  intelligent  believer 
should  feel  uncertain  as  to  this  statement  of  our 
holy  religion. 

LITERATURE. — There  is  a  vast  and  growing  literature 
which  more  or  less  directly  deals  with  the  subject  of 
Our  Lord's  birth.  Tim  literature  may  be  classified  as 
follows:  (1)  Lives  of  Christ;  (2)  critical  coinins.  on  Alt 
and  Lk;  (:})  critical  and  historical  investigations  of 
Christian  origins;  (4)  monographs  011  the  Apostles' 
Creed;  (5)  monographs  and  arts,  on  the  specific  sub- 
ject. For  a  list  and  analysis  of  discussions  see  Sweet, 
Birth  and  Infancy  of  Jeans  Christ,  ;554-57. 

Louis  MATTHEWS  SWEET 

VIRTUE,  vur'tii:  This  word  has  two  quite  dis- 
tinct meanings  in  AV:  (1)  It  was  formerly  often 
used  in  the  now  obsolete  sense  of  "manly  power," 
"valor,"  "efficacy"  (Lat  virtue,  "manly  strength" 
or  "excellence,"  from  vir,  "man"): 

"Trust  in  thy  single  virtue;  for  thy  soldiers 
All  levied  in  thy  name,  have  in  thy  name 
Took  their  discharge." 

— Shakespeare,  King  Lear,  V,  iii,  103  fT. 

It  was  also  used  in  the  sense;  of  a  mighty  work, 
a  miracle.  Thus  Wycliffe  translates  Mt  11  20: 
"Thanne  Jhesus  bigan  to  save  repreef  to  cities  in 
whiche  ful  many  rcrtucs  of  him  weren  don."  So  in 
AV  Mk  5  30;  Lk  6  19;  8  40,  in  the  sense  of 
"power,"  "miraculous  energy  or  influence"  (duvct/us, 
dunamis,  "inherent  power,  residing  in  the  nature  of 
a  thing";  contrast  ^ovala,  c.roitxid,  "power  arising 
from  external  opportunity  or  liberty  of  action").  In 
these  passages  it  is  tr'1  in  RV  "power"  (as  elsewhere 
in  AV;  cf  Acts  3  12,  etc).  (2)  In  its  ordinary 
modern  meaning  of  "moral  goodness"  it  occurs  in 
AVandRV  Wisd  4  1;  5  13;  8  7;  Phil  4  S;  2  Pet 
1  3.5.  In  these  passages  it  stands  for  apery,  arete, 
the  usual  classical  term  for  "moral  excellence" 
(originally  "fitness"  of  any  sort),  used  in  LXX  to 
translate  words  meaning  "glory,"  "praiseworthi- 
ness,"  as  in  Hab  3  3;  Isa  42  12;  63  7  (of  God); 
Zee  6  13  (of  the  Messiah).  The  LXX  sense  may 
color  the  meaning  of  the  word  as  applied  to  God 


in  2  Pet  1  3  RV;    as  also  in  its  pi.  use  (of  God)  in 
1    Pet  2  9  (AV  "praises,"  RV  "excellencies'';. 

The  adj.  "virtuous"  occurs  in  AV,  KRV  Ruth  3 
11;  Prov  12  -1;  31  10  (AKV  "worthy"),  and  the 
advb.  "virtuously"  in  Prov  31  29  (ARV  "worthily"), 
in  each  case  for  ^?  ,  hnijil,  "strength,"  "force" 
(whether  of  body  or  of  mind),  then  in  a  moral  sense 
of  "worth,"  "virtue."  D.  MIAU,  KIMVAKDS 

VISION,  vi/h'un  (r~Tl,  haznn,  "p-Tri  ,  Jilzzuyon, 
T^$~P~  ,  mar' ah;  bpap.a,  lioniinti,  oirracria,  uplnxid) : 
Psychologists  find  that  man  is  prevailingly  and  per- 
sistently "eye-minded."  That,  is,  in  his  waking 
life  lie  is  likely  to  think,  imagine  and  remember  in 
terms  of  vision.  Naturally  then,  his  dreaming  is 
predominantly  visual;  so  strongly  visual,  we  are 
told,  that  it  is  not  rare  to  find  dreams  defined  as 
"trains  of  fantastic  images."  Whether  man  was 
made  this  way  in  order  that,  God  might,  communi- 
cate with  him  through  dreams  and  visions  is  hardly 
worth  debating;  if  the  records  of  human  life,  in 
the  Bible  and  out  of  it,  are  to  be  trusted  at  all,  then- 
is  nothing  better  certified  than  that  God  has  com- 
municated with  man  in  this  way  (Ps  89  19;  Prov 
29  IS;  cf  Am  8  11.12;  Hos  12  10).  If  one  is 
disposed  to  regard  the  method  as  suited  only  to 
primitive  peoples  and  superstitious  natures,  it'still 
remains  true  that  the  experience  is  one  associated 
with  lives  and  characters  of  the  most  saintly  and 
exalted  kind  (1  S  3  1;  Jer  1  11;  Ezk  1  if  Dnl 
2  19;  Acts  9  10;  10  3;  16  9). 

The  vision  may  come  in  one's  waking  moments 
(Did  10  7;  Acts  9  7j;  by  day  (Cornelius,  Acts 
10  3;  Peter,  Acts  10  9fT;  cf  X'u  24  4.10)  or  night 
(Jacob,  Gen  46  2j ;  but  commonly  under  condi- 
tions of  dreaming  (Nu  12  0;  Job  4  13;  Dnl  4  9). 
The  objects  of  vision,  diverse  and  in  some  instances 
strange  as  they  are,  have  usually  their  points  of 
contact  with  experiences  of  the  daily  life.  Thus 
Isaiah's  vision  of  the  seraphim  (6  2)  was  doubtless 
suggested  by  familiar  figures  used  in  the  decoration 
of  the  temple  at  Jems;  Paul's  "man  of  Macedonia" 
(Acts  16  9)  had  its  origin  in  SOUK;  poor  helot  whom 
Paul  had  seen  on  the  streets  of  Troas  and  who  em- 
bodied for  him  the  pitiful  misery  of  the  regions 
across  the  sea;  and  "Jacob's  ladder"  (Gen  28  12) 
was  but  a  fanciful  development  of  the  terraced 
land  which  he  saw  sun-glorified  before  him  as  he 
went  to  .sleep.  Among  the  recurring  objects  of 
vision  are  natural  objects — rivers,  mountains,  trees, 
animals— with  which  man  has  daily  and  hourly 
association. 

The  character  of  the  revelation  through  vision 
has  a  double  aspect  in  the  Bib.  narrative.  In  one 
aspect  it  proposes  a  revelation  for  immediate  di- 
rection, as  in  the  case  of  Abrain  (Gen  15  2  and 
frequently);  Lot  (Gen  19  15);  Balaam  (Nu  22  22), 
and  Peter  (Acts  12  7).  In  another  aspect  it  deals 
with  the  development  of  the  Kingdom  of  God 
as  conditioned  by  the  moral  ideals  of  the  people; 
such  are  the  prophetic  visions  of  Isaiah,  Ezekiel, 
Hosea,  and  Micah,  and  the  apocalypses  of  Daniel 
and  John.  The  revelation  for  immediate  direction 
has  many  correspondences  in  the  life  of  the  devout 
in  all  ages;  the  prophetic  vision,  dealing  in  a  pene- 
trating way  with  the  sources  of  national  growtli  and 
decay,  has  its  nearest  approach  in  the  deliverances 
of  publicists  and  statesmen  who  are  persuaded  that 
the  laws  of  God,  as  expressed  in  self-control,  truth, 
justice,  and  brotherly  love,  are  supreme,  and  that 
the  nations  which  disregard  them  are  marked  for 
ultimate  and  speedy  extinction. 

From  the  nature  of  the  vision  as  an  instrument 
of  Divine  communication,  the  seeing  of  visions  is 
naturally  associated  with  revivals  of  religion  (Ezk 
12  21-25;  Joel  2  28;  cf  Acts  2  17),  and  the  ab- 


Visitation 
Vulgate 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  RIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


30r,s 


sence  of  visions  with  spiritual  decline  (Is;i  29   11. 
12;    Lain  2  <);    K/k  7  2(>;    Mic  3  (>). 

One  m:iy  see  visions  without,  being  visionary  in 
the  bad  sense  of  that  word.  The  outstanding  char- 
acters to  whom  visions  were  vouchsafed  in  the  his- 
tory of  Israel— Abraham,  Moses,  Jacob,  David, 
Isaiah.  Jesus  and  Paul — were  all  men  of  action  as 
well  as  sentiment,  and  it  is  manifest  from  any  fair 
reading  of  their  lives  that  their  work  _  was  helped 
and  not  hindered  by  this  aspect  of  their  fellowship 
with  (loci.  For  always  the  vision  emphasizes  tin- 
play  of  a  spiritual  world:  the  response  of  a  man's 
spirit  to  the  appeal  of  that  world;  and  the  ordering 
of  both  worlds  by  an  intelligent  and  compelling 
Power  able  to  communicate  Himself  to  man  and 
apparently  supremely  interested  in  the  welfare  of 
man.  CHARLES  M.  STUART 

VISITATION,  viz-i-ta'shun,  vis-  (rH^E  ,  jfkud- 
duk;  €TTL<TKOTrT|,  c pi.^kopf) '.  In  Bib.  writings,  the 
Divine  investigation  or  inspection  of  men's  char- 
acter and  deeds  with  a  view  to  apportioning  to  them 
their  due  lot,  whether  of  reward  or  of  chastisement; 
Divine  dispensation  of  mercy  or  of  punishment. 

(1)  In  a  general  sense:    ''Visited  after  the  visitation 
of  all  men"   (\u  16  29),  i.e.  in  natural  death,  the 
usual  lot  of  men,  as  opposed  to  a  calamitous  death; 
"She  shall  have  fruit    in   the   visitation   of  souls'' 
(\Yisd  3   13  AV),   i.e.   in  the  time  of  Divine  judg- 
ment.    So    Sir   18   20    and    perhaps    1    Pet  2    12. 

(2)  In  a  good  sense,  of  Clod's  care,  providence  and 
mercy:    "Thy   visitation    [RVm   "care"]   hath   pre- 
served   my  'spirit"     (Job  10  12).     So    Lk  19  44, 
and,   according  to   some,    1    Pet   2   12    (sec-  above). 

(3)  Most  frequently  in  an  evil  sense,  of  calamity 
or  distress  viewed  as   Divine  punishment:    "What 
will  ye  do  in  the  day  of  visitation,  and  in  the  deso- 
lation  which    shall    come    from    far?"    (Isa  10  3). 
So  Jer  8   12;   10   15;   11  23;   23   12;   46  21;   48  44; 
60  27;    51  IS;    Hos  9  7;    Mic  7  4;    \\isd  14  11. 

D.   MIALL  EDWARDS 
VOCATION,   vo-ka'shun.      See  CALLINT.. 

VOICE,  vois.      See  BATH  KOL. 

VOID,  void:  The  uses  of  "void"  in  EV  are  all 
modern,  except  for  the  phrase  "void  place"  in  AV 
1  K  22  10  2  Ch  18  <)  (RV  "open");  2  Mace  14 
44  (so  AVand  HVm).  On  the  OT  passages  see  OPEN 
PLACE.  In  2  Mace  the  (!r  word  is  K-eceu»/,  kencon, 
which  may  mean  either  "an  open  place,"  in  general, 
or,  specifically,  "the  hollow  between  the  ribs  and  the 
hip,"  whence  RV  "his  side."  Moffatt  in  Charles' 
A/x)c  translates  "the  open  street." 

VOLUME,  vol'um:  This  word  (from  Lat  rolirre, 
"roll"),  twice  used  in  AV  (Ps  40  7  [Ileb  /n'<j/iilla/t\; 
He  10  7),  is  better  Englished  as  "roll"  in  RV.  See 
ROLL. 

VOLUNTARY,  vol'un-ta-ri:  For  the  sake  of 
variety  AV  in  Lev  7  K>;  E/k  46  12  (/n.s)  has  ren- 
dered" rQ~!  ,  tfilhabhah,  by  "voluntary  offering" 
instead  of  the  usual  "freewill  offering"  (so  RV). 
The  words  "of  his  own  voluntary  \yill"  in  Lev 

1  3  AV  are  a  pure  gloss,  properly  omitted  in  RV, 
as   they   represent    nothing   in   the   Ileb.     1   Maco 

2  42    has    "voluntarily"     as    part    of    the    tr    of 
exovaidfa,  hekotisidzo,  RV  "willingly." 

VOPHSI,  vof'sl  OPS?  ,  u'ophst,  meaning  un- 
known): Father  of  Nahbi  the  Xaphtalite  spy  (Nu 
13  14);  but  the  text  is  doubtful.  LXX  B  has 
'TajSet,  labci,  A  F  Luc.,  'Ia/3/,  Iain. 

VOW,   vou   ("n; ,   nedher;    tt^n,   euche; 
'i$s&r,  found  only  in  Xu  30  G.8.10  and  trd  o 


ln>rin»iS>n,  by  LXX) :  A  vow  could  be  positive  (nedher) 
and  included  all  promises  to  perform  certain  things 
for,  or  bring  certain  offerings  to,  God,  in  return  for 
certain  benefits  which  were  hoped  for  at  His  hand 
(Gen  28  20-22,  Jacob;  Lev  27  2.8;  Xu  30;  Jgs  11 
30,  Jephthah;  1  S  1  11,  Hannah;  2  S  15  S,  Absa- 
lom; Jon  1  K),  vows  of  heathen);  or  negative  ('is- 
§ar),  and  included  promises  by  which  a  person  bound 
himself  or  herself  to  abstain  from  certain  things 
(Xu  30  3).  Xowhere  in  the  ( )T  do  we  find  the 
making  of  vows  regarded  as  a  religious  duty  (Dt  23 
22),  but  the  fulfilling  of  a  vow  was  considered  as 
a  sacred  and  binding  duty  (Dt  23  21-2:5;  Jgs  11 
3r>;  Eccl  5  4;  cf  Ps  22  2.r>;  66  13;  76  11;  116 
IS).  A  vow  was  as  binding  as  an  oath  (see  OATH) 
and  therefore-  to  be  kept  to  the  letter;  and  it  was 
not  to  be  lightly  made  (Prov  20  25).  A  father 
could  veto  a  daughter's  vow,  and  a  husband  a 
wife's.  If  a  husband  did  not  veto  a  wife's  vow, 
and  then  caused  her  to  break  it,  the  sin  was  his  and 
not  hers  (Xu  30,  pussim').  It  seems  that  vows  were 
considered  binding  only  when  actually  uttered 
(Dt  23  23).  Persons,  including  one's  self,  animals, 
land  and  other  possessions,  could  be  vowed,  but 
all  these  could  be  redeemed  with  money  (sec  JEPH- 
THAH), which  money  was  to  be  estimated  by  the 
priest,  except  in  the  case  of  a  clean  animal.  In 
the  case  of  land,  houses  and  unclean  animals  a  fifth 
part  of  the  estimated  value  was  to  be  added  to 
make  up  the  redemption  money.  In  the  case  of 
land  the  sum  was  greater  or  smaller  as  the  coming 
year  of  Jubilee  was  far  off  or  near  (Lev  27,  pusHtui). 
Nothing  which  was  by  nature  holy  could  be  made 
the  object  of  a  vow,  e.g.  firstlings,  tithes,  etc  (Lev 
27  26.28.30);  and,  on  the  other  hand,  an  abomina- 
tion, e.g.  the  hire  of  a  prostitute,  could  not  be  made 
the  object  of  a  vow  (Dt  23  IS).  In  Mai  1  14  the 
offering  of  what  was  of  less  value  than  what  had 
been  vowed  is  vigorously  condemned. 

In  the  XT  Jesus  refers  to  vows  only  to  condemn 
the  abuse  of  them  (Mt  15  4-0;  Mk  7  10-13;  cf 
Talm,  \''</hdrl>n,  and  see  CORBAX).  In  Acts  18  IS 
(cf  Acts  21  23.24)  Paul  desires  to  show  his  Jewish 
brethren  that  IK-  is  willing  to  keep  the  forms  of 
Jewish  piety  so  long  as  they  do  not  clash  with  his 
Christian  conscience  (cf  1  Cor  9  21).  For  the  vow 
of  the  Nazirite,  see  XAZIRITE. 

PATL  LEVERTOFP 

VOYAGE,  voi'aj,  AND  SHIPWRECK,  ship'rek, 
OF  ST.  PAUL.  See  PAUL  THE  APOSTLE;  PHOKNIX; 
and  ''Literature"  to  SHIPS  AND  BOATS. 

VULGATE,  vul'gat : 

I.       N\\MK    AND   ITS   HISTORY 

1.  Present  I' sage 

2.  Earlier  Usage 

3.  Post-IIieronymic 

4.  Historical  Importance  of  the  Vulgate 
II.    ORIGIN 

1.  Corruption  and  Confusion  of  Old  Versions 

2.  Heresy 

3.  Inevitable  Separation  of  East  and  West 

4.  Request  of  Pope  Damasus 

III.      .lEIiOME'sTuANSLATIONS  AND  REVISION'S:   METHOD 

1.  The  XT 

Gospels  or  Whole  NT  ? 

2.  OT  from  the  LXX 

3.  OT  from  the  Hebrew 

IV.     SUBSEQUENT  RECENSIONS  AND  HISTORY  OF  VUL- 
GATE 

1.  In  the  MSS 

2.  Printed  Vulgate 
V.     MSS  OF  VULGATE 

VI.     LATINITY 
VII.     USE  OF  VULGATE 
VIII.     DIFFERENCES    BETWEEN   VuLGATE   AND   ENGLISH 

V  ERSIONS 
LITERATURE 

/.  Name  and  Its  History. — The  term  "Vulgate'' 
with  us  means  but  one  thing — the  standard  authori- 
tative Bible  of  the  Lat  or  Rom  church,  prepared 
mostly  bv  the  labors  of  Jerome.  But  this  is  not 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Visitation 

Vulgate 


the  original  use  of   the  word  ;ind   it    was  never  so 

used  by  Jerome  himself;    indeed,  it  did  not,  at  first 

refer  to  a  Lat,  VS  or  tr  at  all.     The  word 

1.  Present     "Vulgate"'    comes    from    the    adj.     or 
Usage  participle  rnlijntn  which  usually  accom- 
panied editio,  and  meant,  at  first,  current 

or  regularly  used  text.      It  was  originally  used  as  tin; 

equivalent  of  Kotvij  e/cSocns,  koine  ekdosis  =  t,he  L.XX. 

Jerome    and    Augustine    both    use    the 

2.  Earlier      term  in  this  sense.     Jerome  ((\»/nn.  in 
Usage  Isn  65  L'()i,    "Hoc    juxta    LXX    inter- 

pretes  diximus,  ([uorum  oditio  toto 
orl)o  vulgata  est"  (and  ih  30  22),  vulgata  editio  again 
refers  to  the  LXX.  Elsewhere  .Jerome  actually 
gives  the  Grce-k  words  (of  the  LXX)  as  found  in 
edilione  vulyata  (foinni.  in  Once  7  13).  August ine 
identifies  the  expression  with  the  LXX  (l)e  doclr. 
rlirist.,  xvi.10):  "Secundum  vulgatam  editionem, 
hoc  est,  interpretum  Septuaginta."  The  term  edit  I'D 
vulgata  was  next  extended  to  the  form  in  which 
the  LXX  was  at  first  known  to  the  West— the  Old 
Lat  VSS  (see  LATIN;  LATIN  VKKSIONS),  although, 
as  Westeott  remarks,  there  does  not  appear  to 
be  any  instance  in  the  age  of  Jerome  of  the  ap- 
plication of  the  term  to  the  Lat  VS  of  the  OT  with- 
out regard  to  its  derivation  from  the  LXX  or  to 
that  of  the  NT,  so  that  Jerome  usually  intended  the 
LXX  though  he  emoted  it  in  Lat  form.  Vulgata 
editio,  having  acquired  the  meaning  of  the  current 
or  ordinarily  used  text  of  LXX,  was  once  again 
extended  to  mean  a  corrupt  or  unoorrected  text 
as  opposed  to  the  standard  emended  LXX  VS  of 
Orige-n's  Hexapla,  and  in  this  sense  is  used  by 
Jerome  as  synonymous  with  antiqua  or  veins  edilio. 

Ep.,  cvi.2  deserves  citing  in  this  connection :  "  Admonoo 
aliam  esse  editionem  quam  Origenes  et  ( 'aesaricnsis  Kuse- 
bius  omnesque  (Jrae-ciae  translatores  KUIVTIV  [kuinfn],  i.e. 
communein  appellant  atque1  vulgatam,  et  a  ple-risenio 
AouKini'os,  \Loukian6s]  mine  dicitur:  nlinm  LXX  interpre- 
tum quae  in  'Efan-Aois  [lli'.rai>li>!*\  {i.e.  of  Origen]  eodicilms 
rcperitur,  et  a  nobis  in  Latinum  sermemem  fideliter  versa 
....  Kon'T]  [ktrint]  [commiini* editio]  ....  veins corrupta 
editio  cist,  ea  antem  quae  habetur  m 'E£ajrAoi«  [Hexavlols] 
et  qnam  no.s  yertimus,  ipsa  est  quae  in  eruditorurn  llbris 
incorrupta  et  immaculata  LXX  intorpretum  translatio  rc- 
servatnr."  ("I  recall  that  one  is  the  text  which  Driven 
and  Eusebius  of  Caesarea  and  all  the  (J-rpi-k  translators 
cull  the  Kon'rj  [koinf],  i.e.  t  he  common  and  current  text,  and 
is  now  called  by  most  persons  Lucian's  [version] ;  the  other- 
is  the  text  of  the  translators  of  the  LXX  -which  is  found 
in  the  codices  [or  books]  of  Driven  [or  the  Hexapla],  and 
has  been  faithfully  translated  by  vis  into  the,  Latin  lan- 
guage ....  the  koine  [the  ordinary  text]  ....  is  the 
old  corrupted  text,  but  that  which  is  found  iti  the  Hexa- 
pla, and  which  we  are  translating,  is  the  same  one  which 
the  version  of  the  translators  of  the  LXX  has  preserved 
unchanged  and  immaculate  in  the  books  of  the  scholars.") 

It   was  only  very  slowly  that  Jerome's  VS  ac- 
quired this  name,  the  phrase  editio  vulyala  being  ap- 
plied to  the  LXX  or  the  Old  Lat  VSS  of 

3.  Post-         the  LXX  sometimes  down  to  mediaeval 
Hieronymic  times,  while  Jerome's  tr  was  known  as 

editio  •nost.ra,  codices  noslri,  tr  emendol- 
ior,  or  tr  quam  tenet  Rom  ccelesia.  The  Trident ine 
Fathers  were  therefore  guilty  of  an  anachronism 
when  they  referred  to  Jerome's  tr  as  reins  el  vulgata 
editio.  Roger  Bacon  was  apparently  the  first,  in  the 
13th  cent.,  to  apply  the  term  V ulyata  in  our  sense 
(not  exclusively,  but  also  to  the  LXX),  and  this 
usage  became  classic  through  its  acceptance  by  the 
Trident  ine  Council  ("vet  us  et  vulgata  editio"). 

The  interest  of  the  Vulg  will  be  apparent  when 
we  reflect  that  this  1r  proved  to  be  to  the  West  what 

the  LXX  had  been  to  the  East,  that 

4.  Historical  it   was    prepared    with   great   care  by 
Importance    the  greatest  scholar  whom  Lat  Chris- 
of  the  tianity     produced,     that    it    was    for 
Vulgate          hundreds  of  years  the  only   Bible  in 

universal  use  in  Europe,  that  it  has 
given  to  us  much  of  our  modern  theological  termi- 
nology as  well  as  being  the  sponsor  for  many  Gr 
words  which  have  enriched  our  conceptions.  It 


'  has  also  proved  of  primary  importance1  as  an  eailv 
ami  excellent  witness  to  the  sacred  text.  Add  to 
this  (hat  "directly  or  indirectly  it  is  the'  re-al  parent 
of  all  the;  vernacular  \"SS  e»f  \\e.-te-rn  Europe" 
exe-ept  the;  (Jothic  of  I'lfilas.  For  ling. -speaking 
Students  it  pe>sse-sses  peculiar  intere-st  as  the;  souice 
of  the  earlier  1 1"1  made  by  the  Venerable  Bede,  and 
portiems  of  the  ( )T  were  tr'1  in  the  10th  e-e-nt.  from 
the  Vulg  by  ^Klfrie-.  Its  gre-ate'st,  influene-e;  was 
e'xe>rte'd  in  the  Eng.  VS  of  \Vye'!iffe  -a,  literal  t  r 
from  the  Vulg  (13S3J.  Ariel  Coverelal<-'s  Bible 
(ir>3.">)  was  "faithfully  ami  truly  t  r''  enit  e>f  Duich 
[i.e.  German  of  Luther]  and  Latin."  The'  Rheims 
and  Douay  \'S  was  based  on  the  Vulg,  though 
"diligently  conlVrred  with  the-  Ile'b  and  (Jr."  The 
Vulg  exercised  considerable  influence  upon  Luther's 
VS  and  through  it  upon  our  AV. 

//.   Origin  of  the  Vulgate.      Lat  Christianity  had 

m>t  bee'n  withemt  a  Bible-  in  its  own  language.     Old 

Lat    VSS    are    found    in    Xorth   Africa 

1.  Corrup-     as  e-arly  as  the  middle  e>f  the  3d  edit. 
tion  and          and  are-  found  in  the;  te-xts  e>f  Cyprian 
Confusion      and    Tertullian.      But     these-    t  rs  were 
of  Old  characterized  by  "simplicity,"  "rude- 
Versions         ne-ss"    and    provincialism.     There-  was 

ne)t  erne-  si  andard  authoritaf  ive  VS  wit  h 
any  ecclesiastical  recognition.  VSS  we're  rather 
due  to  "imlividual  and  successive-  efl'e)rts."  Augus- 
tine says  that  anyone;  who  ge>t  holel  e>f  a  Gr  MS  anel 
thought  he  knew  Gr  and  Lat  would  venture  on  a 
tr.  These;  VSS  originated  in  Africa  anel  ne>t  from 
Rome,  else  they  had  bee-n  me>re  authoritative-.  Be-- 
siele-s,  the  first  twe>  centuries  of  the;  Re>m  church 
were  rathe-r  (Jr;  the;  earliest  Christian  literature;  of 
Rome  is  Gr,  its  bishops  bear  Gr  names,  its  earliest 
liturgy  was  Gr.  When  the  e-hurch  of  Italy  became; 
Lat-speaking — probably  at  the1  e-nd  of  the  3el  cent. 
— the  provincialisms  e>f  the  Afrie-an  VS  rendered  it 
unfit  for  the  more  polishe-d  Romans,  anel  so  recensions 
we're  called  fe>r.  Scholars  now  ive-ogni/e  a  Eure>- 
])ea,n  type  of  Old  Lat  text.  Ami  We\stce>tt  thinks 
a  North  Italian  reevnsion  (at  least  in  the  Gospels) 
was  made  in  the1  4th  ce-nt.  and  known  as  the;  Haiti 
(sen1  LATIN),  and  which  he-  recognizes  in  the  Itnla 
mentioned  in  Aug.,  DC  doclr.  c/irist.,  xv,  as  "verborum 
te-nacior  cum  perspicuitate  sente-ntiae";  but  F.  C. 
Burkitt  (The  Old  Lat  and  the  Itala,  54  If)  take's  the 
Itala  here  as  referring  to  Je-rome's  VS.  Amid  such 
confusiem  and  the  appearane-e  of  national  or  pro- 
vincial recensiems,  the  Lat  church  be'came>  conse-iems 
of  the  ne'eel  erf  a  standard  eel.  The're;  we-re  almost 
as  many  types  of  texts  as  there  were  MSS:  "Te>t 
exemplaria  paene  quot  cexlices,"  says  Jeremie  (Pref. 
to  Gospels}.  Independent  and  unauthorized  e>r 
anonyme>us  tra — esp.  of  the  NT — aideel  by  the  gross 
carelessness  of  scribes,  maele  confusion  worse  con- 
femneleel.  Augustine,  complains  of  this  "Latinorum 
interpretum  infinita  varietas." 

In  adelitiem   to  the'  inconvenience  in  preaching 

and  the  liturgical  variations,  a  greater  demanel  for 

an   authoritative1   VS   arose   fre>m    the 

2.  Heresy      continual  watch   of   the1  early   e-huivh 

against  heretics.  Confusion  e>f  text 
abetted  heresy,  anel  the>  absence  of  a  standard  text 
made  it  hareler  te>  refute  it.  Besides,  the  Jews,  with 
erne  authe>ritative  text,  laugheel  at  the  confusion  e>f 
the  Christian  Script ui-es. 

The  inevitable1  se'paratiem  of  East  and  West,  both 

politically  ami  ecclesiastically,  and  the1  split  between 

Gr  and  Lat  Christianity,  re-mlere-el  the 

3.  Inevi-        exist  e'ne-e  of  a  standard    Lat   le'xt  im- 
table  Sepa-   perative1.     Christianity  was  fell  to  be 
ration  of         the  religion  of  a  book,  and  hence1  that 
East  and        be>ok   must    be   inspire-el   anel   authori- 
West  tat  ive  in  every  worel — even  in  its  oreler 

of  words. 
Pope  Damasus  determined  to  reme-ely  this  state 


Vulgate 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3000 


of  affairs,  and  with  all  the  authority  of  the  papal 
see  commissioned  Jerome  to  produce  an  authentic 
and  standard  authorized  VS. 

t  *~e(luest  The  pope's  choice  could  not  have  fallen 
of  Damasus  upon  a  more  competent  scholar — a  man 
who  had  been  providentially  gifted  and 
prepared  for  the  ta.sk.  Jerome — his  Lat  name  was 
Eusebius  Hioronymus — was  born  at  Stridon  on  the 
borders  of  Dalmatia  about  340.  or  a  little  later,  of 
Christian  parentage.  He  had  the  advantages  of  the 
best  classical  education  and  became  a  devoted  student 
of  the  best  l.at  writers.  In  a  dream  he  saw  a  vision  of 
judgment,  and  on  claiming  to  be  a  Christian  lie  was  re- 
buked: "Mentiris,  Ciceronianus  es.  non  Christianus." 
lie  began  his  theological  studies  in  Gaul;  but  later 
sought  the  seclusion  of  ascetic  life  in  the  desert  near 
Antioch.  Here  he  studied  Heb  from  a  converted  rabbi 
in  order  to  subdue  fierce  passions  by  (he  difficulties  of 
that  language.  About  3/5  or  37<>  began  his  correspond- 
ence with  Damasus.  In  3X2  he  came  to  Home,  and 
became  the  intimate  friend  and  adviser  of  Damasus. 

///.    Jerome's     Translations    and    Revisions: 

Method. — These  fall   into  three  main  groups:   (1) 

revision  of  the  NT;  (2;  OT  juxta  LXX; 

1.  The  NT     (3)  OT  from  Heb.     The  exact  (late  of 

the.  pope's  commission  is  not  given:  it 
was  probably  in  3S2 — the  year  of  Jerome's  arrival 
in  Home— or  early  in  3X3,  in  which  year  the  Gospels 
appeared  in  revised  form.  Damasus  asked  simply 
for  a  revision  of  the  Old  Lat  YSS  by  the  help  of 
the  Gr  rather  than  a  new  VS.  Jerome  collated 
Gr  AISS,  and  carefully  compared  them  with  the 
"Italian"  type  of  Old  Lat  texts;  where  possible  the 
Old  Lat  was  preserved.  Thus  Jerome1  approached 
the  task  with  a  conservative  spirit.  Still  the  result 
was  a  considerable  departure  from  the  Old  Lat  VS, 
the  changes  being  (1)  linguistic,  removal  of  pro- 
vincialisms and  rudeness,  (2)  in  interpretation,  e.g. 
supersubstantialis  for  ^mota-iov,  epioiision,  in  the 
Lord's  Prayer,  (3)  the  removal  of  interpolations, 
(4)  the  insertion  of  the  Eusebian  Canons. 

The  (7o,s'/W.s  or  the  whole  NT  revive/I S — It  is  dis- 
puted whether  Jerome  revised  the  whole  NT  or 
only  the  Gospels. 

Against  the  revision  of  (lie  whole  XT  the  arguments 
briefly  are:  (1)  That  Augustine,  writing  20  years  after 
the  appearance  of  the  revised  Gospels,  speaks  only  of 
"Gospel":  "  Kvangelium  ex  (iraeco  interpretatus  esi  " 
(Ep.,  civ. 6):  but  Augustine  may  here  be  speaking  gen- 
erally or  applying  "(iospel"  to  the  whole  XT.  (2) 
Jerome  in  his  preface  apparently  speaks  of  "only  four 
Gospels"  ("quattuor  tantum  evangelia").  ('.'>)  The  rest 
of  the  XT  does  not  show  the  same  signs  of  revision  as 
the  Gospels.  (1)  The  absence  of  the  prefaces  usual 
("solita  praefationc")  to  Jerome's  revised  VSS.  On  the 
other  hand,  to  more  than  counterbalance  these,  (1) 
Damasus  required  a  revision  of  the  win, It  XT,  not  only 
of  the  Gospels  (1'rcf.  of  Diim/isux).  (2)  In  other  state- 
ments of  Jerome  he  expressly  says  he  revised  tin-  .\  T  (not 
Gospel  or  Gospels);  in  Ep.,  cxii.20,  he  seems  to  correct 
Augustine's  evangelism  by  writing:  "Si  me,  ut  dicis.  in 
Nori  Te.xtamrnti  emendatione  suspieis,  "  and  in  £>.,  Ixxi. 
5,  "I  translated  tin-  XT  according  to  the  Gr"  ("XT 
Graecae  reddidi  auctoritati  ") ;  cf  also  DC  Vir.  III., 
cxxxv.  (3)  Jerome  quotes  passages  outside  the  Gospels 
where  his  VS  differed  from  the  Old  Lat  VSS.  e.g.  Kom 
12  11;  1  Tim  1  1">;  cf  Ep.,  xxvii.  (4)  Damasus  died 
at  the  end  of  3S4 — perhaps  before  the  rest,  of  Jerome's 
revision  was  published,  and  so  Jerome  thought  no  further 
prefaces  needed. 

The  more  likely  conclusion  is  that  Jerome  revised 

the   whole   NT,    though   not   all   with   ecmal   care. 

His  revision  was  hasty  and  soon  be- 

2.  OT  came  more  or  less  confused  with  the 
Juxta  LXX     Old  Lat  VSS  to  which  the  people  citing 

as  they  do  to  all  old  VSS.  Having 
probably  completed  the  NT  from  the  Gr,  Jerome 
began  immediately  on  the  OT  from  the  Gr  of  the 
LXX. 

(1)  Roman  Pwiltcr. — He  commenced  with  the 
Pss,  which  he  simply  emended  only  where  impera- 
tively required  (cf  preface),  and  cursorily  (c384). 
This  revision  is  called  the  Rom  Psalter  (Psalterium 
Romanum),  which  continued  in  use  in  Rome  and 
Italy  till  it  was  displaced  under  the  pontificate  of 
Pius  V  by  the  Gallican  Psalter,  though  the  Rom 


Psalter  is  still  used  in  St.  Peter's,  Rome,  and  in  St. 
Mark's,   Milan. 

(2)  Gallican  Psalter. — This  Psalter  soon  became 
so  corrupted  by  the  Old  Lat  VS  that  Jerome  (c  387) 
undertook  a  second  revision  at  the  request  of  Paula 
and  Eustochium.     This  became;  known  as  the  Galli- 
can Psalter  because  of  its  early  popularity  in  Gaul, 
it,  was  also  made  from  the  LXX,  but  with  the  aid 
of  other  ( ir  YSS.     Jerome  adopted  in  it  the  critical 
signs  used  by  Origen — a  passage  inclosed  between 
an  obelus  and   two  points  being  absent  from  the 
Heb   but    present    in   the   LXX,   that    between   an 
asterisk  and  two  points  being  absent  from  the  LXX 
but  supplied  from  Theodotion  (Preface  to  /J.s.s). 

(3)  Rest  of  the  OT. — About  the  same  time  Jerome 
published  trs  of  other  OT  books  from   the    LXX. 
Job  was  revised  very  soon  after  the  Gallican  Psalter. 
The  preface  to  Prov,  Ecel,  Cant  and  Ch  is  extant 
to  show  he  had  revised  these  books.     Job  and  Pss 
are   the   only   books  of   this  revision   juxta   LXX 
extant. 

It  is  again  disputed  whether  Jerome  completed  the 
whole  OT  in  this  revision  because  (1)  the  usual  prefaces 
are  again  lacking  (except  to  the  books  already  men- 
tioned), and  (2)  in  his  prefaces  to  the  revision  from  the 
Heb  Jerome  makes  no  reference  to  an  earlier  revision  of 
his  own;  (3)  the  work  implied  was  too  great  for  the 
brief  space  possible  and  must  have  been  done  between 
3S7  and  390  (or  391),  for  by  this  latter  date  he  was 
already  on  the  tr  from  the  Heb.  But  Jerome  was  a 
phenomenal  worker,  as  we  learn  that  his  tr  of  Prov,  Keel 
and  Cant  from  the  Heb  was  made  in  three  days.  And 
liis  commentary  on  Kph  was  written  at  the  rate  of 
1,000  lines  a  day. 

Jerome  probably  completed  the  whole,  as  we  infer 
from  his  own  direct  positive  statements.  He  speaks 
of  "mea  in  ///>/•/*  c<ntoiticis  interpret  at  io"  (Kp.,  cxii. 
10;  sec  references  in  \Yestcott),  and  in  the  preface 
to  the  Books  of  Solomon  after  the  LXX  he  states  IK; 
did  not  correct  YVisd  and  Ecclus,  "desiring  only  to 
emend  the  canonical  books"  ("tantummodo  canon- 
ic;is  script  uras  vobis  emendare  desidcrans").  Once 
again,  he  speaks  of  having  carefully  tr'1  the  LXX 
into  Lat  (Con  Ittif.,  ii.24;  cf  Ep.,  Ixxi). 

If  the  postscript  to  Ep.,  cx.xxiv,  to  Augustine  is 
genuine,  Jerome  complains  he  had  lost,  the  most  of 

his  former  labors  by  fraud  ("pleraquc 
3.  Transla-  enim  prioris  laboris  fraude  cuiusdam 
tion  of  OT  amisimus").  And  Augustine  requests 
from  (Ep.,  xcvi.34)  from  Jerome  his  YSS 

Hebrew         from   the   LXX    ("Nobis  mittas,   ob- 

secro,  interpretationem  tnnm  de  LXX 
(j/tani  te  cdidisxe  nesciebam").  Having  in  the  course 
of  these  labors  discovered  the  unsatisfactory  condi- 
tion of  the  LXX  text,  and  his  friends  pleading  the 
need  of  a  tr  direct  from  the  Heb,  Jerome  began  this 
huge  task  about  390  with  S  and  K,  which  he  pub- 
lished with  the  Prolog  UN  galentns  ("helmeted  pro- 
logue"), next  the  Pss  (c  392),  Job  and  the  Prophets 
(393),  1  and  2  Esd  (c394)  (3  and  4  being  omitted), 
Ch  (390).  Then  followed  a  severe  illness  until  39X, 
when  "post  longam  aegrotat ionem"  he  trd  Prov, 
Eccl  and  Cant.  He  then  started  on  the  Octateuch  : 
"Octateucho  quern  mine  in  manibus  habeo"  (Ep., 
Ixxi. 5),  the  Pent  being  first  trd  in  401,  Josh,  Jgs, 
Ruth  and  P^st  soon  after  (xl.4:  "post  sanctae 
Paulae  dormit ionem").  Tob  and  Jth  were  trd  for 
him  from  Chaldee  into  Heb  from  which  he  then  trd 
them  into  Lat  (c  405),  and  shortly  before  or  after 
these  he  added  the  apocryphal  additions  to  Dnl 
and  Est.  Bar  he  passed  over.  Wisd  and  Ecclus 
were  not  revised  by  him.  Whether  he  revised  Mace 
is  doubtful.  Thus  was  completed  in  15  strenuous 
years  (390-405)  a  work  which  has  proved  a  KTTJ/HO.  Is 
dei,  ktcma  es  aei  (Thuc.  i.22),  "a  possession  for  all 
time."  The  tr  was  largely  undertaken  at  the  re- 
quest of  friends  and  at  no  papal  request.  Indeed 
Jerome  did  not  pretend  to  be  working  for  publicity; 
he  actually  asked  one  friend  not  to  show  his  tr. 


3061 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Vulgate 


Reception. — But  human  nature  rarely  recognizes 
merit  in  its  own  generation,  and  the  spirit  of  con- 
servatism rose  in  rebellion  against   beneficial  inno-   i 
vation.     Jerome  was  accused  of  slighting  the  LXX, 
which  even  in  (he  eyes  of  Augustine  was  equally 
inspired    with    the    Heb    original.     Jerome's    fiery   '• 
temper  and  his  biting  tongue  were  not    calculated 
to  conciliate. 

IV.  Subsequent  Recensions  and  History  of  the 
Vulgate. — By  degrees    the   fierce    opposition    died    ; 

down,  and  even  by  the  time  of  Jerome's 
1.  In  MSS  death  men  were  beginning  to  perceive 

the  merits  of  his  VS  which  Augustine 
used  in  the  (Jospels.  Some  parts  of  Jerome's  \  ulg 
won  their  way  to  popularity  much  sooner  than 
others — the  Old  Lat  VSS  died  hard  and  not  without 
inflicting  many  a  wound  on  the  \  ulg.  His  Psalter 
from  the  Heb  never  ousted  the  Galilean  which  still 
holds  its  place  in  the  Vulg.  Some  scholars  were 
able  to  appreciate  Jerome's  ed  sooner  than  others. 
And  it  was  at  different  dates  that  the  different 
provinces  and  countries  of  the  West  adopted  it. 
Pelagius  used  it  in  his  comm.  on  the  Pauline  Epp. 
As  might  be  expected,  the  Old  Lat  YSS  retained 
their  place  longest  in  the  place  of  their  origin — 
North  Africa.  Britain  proved  the  next  most  con- 
servative. The  old  VSS  were  never  authoritatively 
deposed,  and  so  Jerome's  YS  was  compelled  to  win 
its  way  by  its  own  merits.  In  the  5th  cent. — esp. 
in  Gaul — it  continued  to  grow  in  popularity  among 
scholars,  being  adopted  by  Yincent  of  Lerins, 
Eucherius  of  Lyons,  Sedulius,  and  Claudianus  Ma- 
rnertus,  and  Prosper  of  Aquitaine.  In  the  next 
century  its  use  became  almost  universal  except  in 
Africa,"  where  the  Old  Lat  was  retained  by  Junilius 
and  Facundus.  At  the  close  of  the  6th  cent.  Pope 
Gregory  the  Groat  acknowledges  that  the  new  (i.e. 
the  Vulg)  and  the  old  are  both  equally  used  by  the 
Apostolic  See;  and  thus  the  Vulg  was  at  least  on 
equal  footing  with  the  old.  In  the  7th  cent,  the 
Old  Lat  retreats,  but  traces  of  it  survive  down  into 
the  Middle  Ages,  affecting  and  corrupting  the 
Jerome  YS.  Mixed  texts  and  conflated  readings 
arose — the  familiarity  of  the  Old  Lat  in  lection- 
aries  and  liturgies  telling  on  the  Vulg.  The  NT, 
being  only  a  revision  and  not  a  fresh  tr,  and  being 
most  in  use,  degenerated  most. 

(1)  As  early   as   the   6th   cent,    the   need   of   an 
emendated    Vulg   text   was   felt,    and    Cassidorius 
undertook  to  revise  part  of  it.     This  was  merely 
private  enterprise  and  did  little  to  stem  the  flood 
of  corruption. 

(2)  About  the  close  of  the  Nth  cent  .Charlemagne 
commissioned    an    Englishman    Alcuin,    abbot    of 
St.  Martin,  Tours,  to  produce  a  revised  text  on  the 
basis  of  the  best  Lat   MSS,    without  reference  to 
the  Gr  text.     Alcuin  sent  to  York  for  his  MSS  and 
thus    produced    a    text    after    British    MSS.     On 
Christmas  Day,  801  AD,  he  presented  the  emperor 
with  the  emended  text.     The  authority  by  which 
this  text  was  prepared  and  its  public  use  together 
with  the  class  of  MSS  used  did  much  to  preserve 
a  pure  Vulg  text  and  stay  interpolations:   "The  best 
MSS  of  his  recension  do  not  differ  widely  from  the 
pure  Hieronymian  text"  (Westcott). 

(3)  Another  recension  9f  about  the  same  date — but  a 
scholar's    private  enterprise — was    produced   by   a   Visi- 
goth, Theodulf,  bishop  of  Orleans.      He  made,  the  Spanish 
family  of  MSS  together  with  those  of  Southern  France 
the  basis  of  his  text.      His  inscribing  variant  readings  in 
the  margin  really  helped  the  process  of  corruption.      His 
text — though  prepared  at  enormous  labor — was  far  in- 
ferior to  that  of  Alcuin  and  exerted  little  influence  in  face 
of  the  authoritative  VS  of  Alcuin.      MSS  wen;  rapidly 
multiplied  in  the  9th  cent,  on  the  Alcuinian  model  by 
the  school  of  Tours,  but  with  carelessness  and  haste  which 
helped  to  a  speedy  degeneration  of  the  text.      Again  the 
confusion  called   for  remedy. 

(4)  In  the  llth  cent.  Lanfranc,  bishop  of  Canterbury 
(1069-89),  attempted  correction — apparently  with  little 


success.  About  the  middle  of  the  l_'th  cent.,  Stephen 
Harding  of  Citeaux  produced  a  revision  —extant  in  MS 
in  Dijon  public-  library  (no.  !)),  as  did  also  Cardinal 
Xicolaus.  The  increased  demand  for  Bibles  in  the-  13th 
cent,,  gave  opportunity  for  further  corruption  of  tin- 
text — publishers  and  copyists  being  indifferent  as  to  the 
character  of  MS  chosen  as  a  basis. 

("))  In  consequence  of  tin-  fame  of  the  University  of 
Paris  in  the-  K'.th  cent,  and  the  enormous  activity  in 
producing  Bible-  MSS,  there-  resulted  a  type-  of  text  called 
by  Roger  Bacon  Kxcmiilar  I'arixicnxe,  for  which  he  has 
nothing  good  to  say. 

((>)  In  the  same  century  stc-ps  were  taken  toward  a 
standard  text  and  to  stay  corruption  by  the  drawing  up 
of  correctoria,  i.e.  books  in  which  the  readings  of  (ir  and 
I. at  MSS  were  weighed  to  decide  a  text,  the  authority 
of  Fathers  cited,  etc.  Some  of  the  principal  corn-ctona 
are:  Correctorium  Pariaiense  known  also  as  Senonenxt 
one  of  the;  worst,  following  the  Parisian  type  of  text; 
Vallc.ann.ni,  the  best;  Correctorium  Sor- 


in   the   Sorbonne;     Corni-ti 


Dominican 


(1)  Kniiij    editions.  -Little    more    was    done    till 
the  invention  of  printing,  and  the  first  products  of 

tin-  press  were  Lat  Bibles.  I'nfor- 
2.  Printed  tunately  at  first  the  current  text  was 
Vulgate  accepted  without  any  critical  labors, 

and  so  the  earliest  printed  Vulgates 
only  perpetuated  an  inferior  text.  Only  a  few  from 
among  some  hundreds  of  early  VSS  can  be  noted: 
(a)  the  Mazarin  Bible  —one  of  the  most  beautiful 
and  valuable  books  in  the  world — printed  at  Mainz 
about  the  middle  of  the  15th  cent.  (1455,  Westcott,) 
by  Gutenberg,  Schoffer  or  Fust;  (//)  the  first  Bible 
published  at  Rome  in  1471  bySweynheym  and  Pan- 
nartx  and  reprinted  in  Nuremberg  in  1475;  (c) 
1504  a  Paris  ed  with  variant  readings;  (d)  an  ed 
in  Complutensian  Polyglot  (1514  ff)  from  ancient 
MSS  and  from  the  Gr;  (<•)  practically  the  first 
critical  ed,  by  Robert  us  Stephanus  (1st  ed  1528,  2d 
1532,  reprinted  later),  of  interest  as  being  practically 
the  basis  of  the  standard  Rom  Vulg;  (/)  Hentenian 
critical  ed  (Louvain,  1547).  Attempts  to  produce 
a  corrected  text  by  aid  of  the  original  were  made  by 
Erasmus  in  1516,  Pagninus  in  1518  ff,  Cardinal 
Cajetan,  Steuchius  in  1529,  Clarius  in  1542,  etc. 
Even  new  tr3  wore  made  by  both  Roman  Catholic 
and  Protestant  scholars.  This  bewildering  number 
of  VSS  and  the  controversies  of  the  16th  cent,  called 
for  a  standard  ed.  The  Council  of  Trent  (1546) 
took  up  the  matter  and  decreed  that  the  "ipsa  vet  us 
et  vulgata  editio  quae  longo  tot  saeculorum  usu  in 
ipsa  ecclesia  probata"  ("the  same  old  and  ordina- 
rily used  text  which  has  been  approved  in  the  church 
itself  by  the  long  usage  of  so  many  centuries'') 
should  be  regarded  as  authentic  (authentica).  By 
this  they  apparently  meant  the  Jerome  VS,  but 
did  not  state  in  which  MS  or  printed  ed  it  was  to  be 
found. 

(2)  f)ixtine    edition    (1590). — No     further    steps 
were  taken  for  the  present   to  secure  a  standard 
official  Bible  for  the  church — the  private  ed  of  John 
Hentenius   of   Louvain   serving   in   the   meanwhile 
until  the  pontificate  of  Sixtus  V.     This  pope  in- 
trusted the  work  to  a  committee  under  Cardinal 
Caraffa,    but   he   himself   strenuously    cooperated. 
MSS  and  printed  edd  were  examined,  but  the  origi- 
nal Gr  or  Heb  was  to  be  regarded  as  decisive  in 
difficulties.     The  result  was  published  as  the  Six- 
tine  ed  of  the  Vulg  by  the  Vatican  press  in  1590  (see 
title  on   1st  and  2d  pages).      The   text  resembles 
the  Stephanus  ed  of  1540.     A  new  puzzling  method 
of    verse    enumeration    was    introduced.     As    one; 
would  expect,  there  was  prefixed  to  the  ed  a  Bull 
Acltrnus  ille,  etc,  in  which  the  divines  gave  them- 
selves credit  for  their  painstaking  labors,  and  the 
result  was  declared  the  authorized  Vulg  of  the  Tri- 
dent ine   Council,    "pro   vera,   legit ima,    authentica 
ct  indubitata,  in  omnibus  public-is  privatisque  dis- 
putationibus  .   .   .   ."    ("by  virtue  of  truth,  usage, 
authenticity  and  certainty,  in  all  public;  and  private 
disputes").'    Errors  of  printing  were  corrected  by 


Vulgate 
Wait 


Till-:  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3062 


(lie  pen  or  by  pasting  a  slip  of  paper  \vith  the  cor- 
rection over  tne  error.  This  ed  was  not  to  be  re- 
printed for  10  years  except  at  the  Vatican,  and  after 
that  any  ed  must  be  compared  with  the  Vatican 
ed,  so  that  ''not  even  the  smallest  particle  should 
be  altered,  added  or  removed''  under  pain  of  the 
"greater  excommunication."  Sixtus  died  the  same 
year,  and  the  Jesuit  Beliarmine  persuaded  Clement 
VIII  to  recall  the  Sixtine  ed  and  prepare  another 
standard  Vulg  in  1.VJ2. 

(:i)  Clementine,  edition  (1-r>!).?}. — In  the  same  year 
appeared  1  lie  Clement  ine  ed  with  a  preface  by  Bellar- 
miiK!  asserting  that  Sixtus  had  himself  determined 
to  recall  his  ed  on  account,  of  printers'  errors  (^t'rom 
which  it  was  remarkably  free1).  Tin;  pains  and 
penalties  of  the  Sixtine  Bull  were  evaded  by  print- 
ing the  book  as  a  Xu'linc  ed,  actually  printing  the 
name  of  Sixtus  instead  of  Clement  on  the  t  itle-page: 
liibl id  Xacra  V nlyiitae  Editionis  »S'i.r/i  Quinti  Paul. 
Max.  iii.s.sit  rccognita  at(/ne  cdila.  The  awkward 
system  of  verse,  enumeration  of  the  Sixtine  was 
dropped.  The  text  itself  was  rather  of  the  Ilenten- 
ian  type.  No  future  ed  was  to  be  printed  except 
on  the  exact  pattern,  "even  to  the  smallest  particle" 
of  the  Vatican  ed.  Thanks  largely  to  the  papal  Bull 
this  Clementine  ed  of  1;">(.)2  still  remains  the  official 
VS  of  the  Roman  Catholic  church.  A  second  ed 
appeared  in  ir>93,  and  a  third  in  l.r><)8.  Roman 
Catholic  scholars  were  discouraged  from  under- 
taking a  new  VS,  and  Protestant  scholars  were, 
until  recently,  too  occupied  with  the  original 
texts. 

Bent  ley's  projected  ed  of  the  NT  never  appeared. 
I'nder  cover  of  the  works  of  Jerome  a  corrected 
text  was  published  by  Vallarsi,  1734 — really  the 
completion  and  revision  of  the  ed  of  Martianay  of 
170C>.  Little  more  was  done  in  the  way  of  critical 
cdd  till  the  latter  half  of  the  19th  cent. 

(4)  Hlodcrn  critical  editions.— In  1.S01  Vercellone 
reprinted  the  Clementine  Vulg  (with  an  excellent 
preface),  the  names  of  Sixtus  and  Clement  both 
appearing  on  the  title-page.  In  l(.)()(j  an  ed — Bib 
•Sac  Vidi/dtue  I'd  by  Hetzenauer — was  published  at 
Oeniponte.  (The  majority  of  recent  edd  have  been 
confined  to  the  NT  or  part  of  it :  Tischendorf,  A  or. 
7Y.s7.  I.n!.:  tixtn/n  Ifiernni/ini.  ....  restituit,  Leip- 
zig, ISdl;  Hetzenauer,  A7 or.  Test.  Vulg.  ed.:  ex  Vat. 
cdd.  car  unique  corrcctorio  critiee.  edidit  P.  M.  II., 
Oeniponte,  1899.)  The  Oxford  Vulg,  prepared  by 
Bishop  J.  Wordsworth  and  II.  J.  White,  of  which 
the  first,  part  was  issued  in  1XS!),  is  a  compre- 
hensive work  of  great  value.  P.  Corssen  published 
the  first  instalment  of  a  Vulg  NT  (K i>.  (id  (lul, 
Berlin,  IKS")).  This  is  exclusive  of  the  printed 
edd  of  several  important  MSS.  Pope  Pius  N 
intrusted  the  preparation  of  a  revised  ed  of  the 
Vulg  to  the  Benedictine  order — but  as  yet  nothing 
has  appeared. 

V.  MSS  of  the  Vulgate.— To  give  a  satisfactory  list 
would  be  impossible  within  our  space  limits.     Tho  number 
is  legion — estimated  at  about  s.000.    As  yet  the  same  order 
has  not  been  called  out  of  the  chaos  of  Vulg  and  Old  Lat 
MSS  in  the  manner  in  which  \Vestcott  and  Hort  have; 
reduced  the  Or  MSS  of  the  NT  to  a  system.     The  student 
may  conveniently  approach  the  subject  in  White's  list  in 
the  4th  ed  of  Scrivener,  .1  Plain  Intro  to  the  Criticism  of 
the  \T,  II.  07  IT,  or  the  longer  one  by  Gregory  in  Tisch- 
endorfs   NT  Or,  8th  ed,  III,  983  ff,  also  in  Westcotf s 
art.    in    DB   or    White's    in    11DB;     Yereellone,    Variae 
Lectioncs,   I860;     Berger,   Ilistoire  de  la  Vulgate,  374  ff. 

VI.  Latinity. — Space  permits  only  a  few  general 
remarks.     The  Lat  of  the  old  VSS  was  simple,  rude 
and  vernacular,  abounding  in  literalisms  and  pro- 
vincialisms.    In  many  ways,  in  vocabulary,  diction 
and    construction,    it    offended    scholars.     As    was 
natural  Jerome  smoothed  the  roughness  of  the  old 
VSS  and  removed  the  most  glaring  solecisms  and 
offensive   provincialisms.     His   work   is   a   master- 
piece— like  our  AV — in  the  harmonious  blend  of 


simple,  popular,  forceful  language  and  a  scholarly 
graceful  tr.  "As  a  monument  of  ancient  linguistic 
power  the  tr  of  the  OT  stands  unrivaled  and  unique" 
(Westcott).  The  Vulg  has  enriched  our  language 
by  introducing  many  Gr  words,  ''apostle,"  ''evan- 
gel," "synagogue,"  "baptism/''  etc.  It  has  also 
given  us  much  of  our  theological  vocabulary,  "edi- 
fication," "justification,"  "propitiation,"  "regen- 
eration," "Scripture,"  etc.  It  still  retains  many 
marks  of  its  birth  in  (1)  Old  Lat  words  elevated 
from  the  vernacular,  (2)  Africanisms:  clnrifico,  etc, 
saeculum  for  mundus,  long  compound  vbs.  like  ob- 
tenebrare,  etc,  (3)  Graccisms,  like  the  use  of  the  pro- 
noun for  the  art.,  as  hie  >niindnx  =  b  Koo-fMS,  ho  /co.s/was, 
(  0  Hebraisms,  like  (idpoxitit  itl  n/i/irc/icitiltrct  et  I'et- 
rum  (Acts  12  3;  see  special  works  mentioned  in 
"Literature"). 

VII.  Use  of  the  Vulgate.  —In  the  OT  the  Vulg  is 
not  of  much  importance  for  the  criticism  of  the  lleb 
text,  because;  of  the  freedom  which  Jerome  permitted 
himself  in  tr,  and  because  our  present  Massoretic 
Heb  text  had  by  that  time  taken  on  its  present 
f.>rm.     But  on  the  LXX  it  often  throws  a  very  use- 
ful light.     In  the  NT  Jerome's  VS  ranks  practically 
in  importance  with  our  oldest  and  best  Gr  MSS  in 
establishing  (in  conjunction  with  the  Old  Lat  VSS; 
the  received  Gr  text  of  the  4th  cent.,  both  by  way 
of  supplementing  and  correcting  our  Gr  authorities. 
It  is  in  the  Gospels  that  Jerome's  work  is  most 
thorough  and  useful.     His  VS  also  supplies  many 
a  hint  for  the  interpretation  of  our  Gr  text. 

VIII.  Differences   between    Vulgate   and   Our    English 

Version. — Apart  from  differences  of  rendering  and  minor 
points,  the  Vulg  text  differs  from  the.  Eng.  in  the  order 
of  tho  books,  in  the  amount  contained  in  some  of  them, 
in  t  lie  occasional  divergence  of  chapter  and  verse  enumer- 
ation. The  NT  is  practically  t  he  same  in  the  Clementine 
fcoxt,  though  the  order  of  books  varies  in  many  MSS  — 
the  Catholic  Kpp.  being  placed  sometimes  after  Acts. 
In  some  MSS  the  Ep.  to  the  Laodiceans  is  found.  Most 
variety  obtains  in  tho  OT.  The  sequence  of  canonical 
books  is  the  same,  but  the  apocryphal  books  are  inter- 
spersed among  them  and  not  placed  at  the  end.  Tob 
and  Jth  are  inserted  between  Neh  (2  Esd)  and  Kst,  Wisd 
and  Keel  us  between  Cant  and  Isa.  Bar  follows  Lam, 
eh  5  of  which  is  called  the  "Prayer  of  Jeremiah  the 
prophet";  land  2  Mace  are  placed  after  Mai;  Ii  and  4 
Ksd  and  Pr  Man  appear  as  an  appendix  after  the  NT. 
In  Pss  the  divergence  is  considerable,  the  Vulg — like  tin; 
Heb — counting  the  title  as  the  first  verse.  Pss  9,  10 
of  our  VS=Ps  9  in  Vulg,  so  that  the  Vulg  is  one  Ps 
behind  the  Eng.  till  Ps  114,  then  Pss  114,  115  again  form 
one  Ps = Vulg  113.  The  Vulg  is  now  two  behind.  Mat- 
ters arc;  equalized  by  Ps  116  being  divided  into  two  in  tho 
Vulg  (  =114,  115).  and  147  again  =  t\vo  Vulg  Pss  146, 
147.  Thus  only  Pss  1-8  and  148-150  run  tho  same. 
Against  Jerome's  advice  the  apocryphal  parts  of  Dnl  and 
Kst  were  accepted  as  integral  parts  of  those  books,  tho 
Throe  being  inserted  at  Dnl  3  2:5,  Sus  forming  eh  13  and 
Bel  eh  14.  Ad  Est  is  linked  on  to  the  end  of  Kst.  In 
conclusion,  the  present  Vulg,  as  Westcott  remarks,  is  a 
composite  of  elements  belonging  to  every  period  and 
form  of  tho  Lat  VS,  including  (1)  unrevised  Old  Lat 
(YV'isd,  Ecclus,  1  and  2  Mace  and  Bar);  (2)  Old  Lat  cor- 
rected from  tho  LXX  (Psalter);  (3)  Jerome's  free  tr 
from  the  original  (Job  and  Jth) ;  (4)  Jerome's  tr  from  the 
original  (the  OT  except  the  Psalter) ;  (5)  Old  Lat  revised 
from  (ir  MSS  (the  Gospels);  (G)  Old  Lat  cursorily  re- 
vised (the  rest  of  the  NT). 

LITKUATURK. — This  is  too  vast  to  cite,  but  in  some  of 
the  following  works  sufficient  bibliographies  will  be 
found:  Berger,  Ilixt  de  la  Vulg  pendant  lex  premiers 
sierlra  du  moi/en  Age,  1S93;  H.  Hody,  De  bib.  textibus 
orii.iinalibus,  170.");  P.  Kaulen,  Gexch.  der  Vulti,  1868; 
Van  Ess,  Pragmatisch-krit.  Gesch.  der  Vul/j,  1824;  E. 
Nestle,  Urtcxt  u.  Uebersetzungen  der  Bibel,  1897,  and 
Ein  Jubil'ium  d.  lat.  Bib.,  1892.  Two  splendid  arts. — 
each  by  an  authority —  in  Dfi  (Westcott)  and  in  HDB 
(White).  A  very  readable  account  is  in  Kenyon,  Our 
Bible  and  the  Ancient  Jlf.S'X,  1C>.~>  if,  and  ill  his  Handbook 
to  the  Test  Crit.  of  the  XT,  KiS  If.  For  the  language: 
Ronseh,  Itala  u.  Vulijata,  2d  ed,  1875;  A.  Hartl,  Sprack- 
liche  Eigentiimlichkeiten  d.  Yulg,  1894. 

S.  AXGUS 

VULTURE,  vul'tur  (Hin  ,  da' ah;  LXX  y^,  gups, 
and  KKTIVOS,  iktinos;  Lat  Vulturidae):  Any  mem- 
ber of  a  family  of  large  birds  that  subsist  wholly 
or  in  part  on  carrion.  The  largest  vulture  of  Pal 
was  the  Lammer-geier.  This  bird  waited  until 


TIIK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HIIiLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Vulgate 
Wait 


smaller  vultures,  cables  and  hawks  stripped  a  car- 
case to  the  bone,  then  carried  the  skeleton  aloft,  and 
dashed  it  on  the  rocks  until  the  marrow  could  be 
secured.  This  was  a  favorite  delicacy.  This  bird 
was  fond  of  tortoise  also,  and  is  said  to  have  dropped 
the  one  that  struck  the  bald  head  of  Aeschylus, 
which  the  bird  mistook  for  a  stone,  so  causing  the 
death  of  tin'  poet.  Several  smaller  species,  includ- 
ing "Pharaoh's  chickens,"  flocked  all  over  Pal. 
Those;  were  protected  by  a  death  penalty  for  their 
value  as  scavengers  in  cities.  They  fed  on  carcases 
of  animals  that  killed  each  other,  ate  putrid  fish 
under  the  nests  of  pelican  and  cormorant,  followed 
caravans  across  the  desert,  and  were  ready  for  offal 
thrown  from  animals  dressed  for  feasting.  They 
nocked  over  the  altars  for  the  entrails  from  sacrifice!, 
and  devoured  scraps  cast  aside  by  tent-dwellers 


and  residents  of  cities.  They  paired  with  affection- 
ate courting  and  nested  in  crevices,  in  walls,  hollow 
trees  and  on  cliffs.  They  raised  only  one  pair  of 
young  to  the  season,  as  the  nestlings  were  over  two 
months  old  before;  they  took  wing.  The;  young 
we're  white:  at  first,,  then  blae'k  feathers  enveloped 
the'in.  On  aeeemnt  e>f  their  steady  diet  e»f  carrion, 
no  one  over  has  been  able  to  use  their  flesh  for  fe>e>d, 
although  some;  daring  ornithologists  have;  tried. 
For  this  re-ason  the  vulture;  was  plae-od  among  the; 
abominations  and  should  by  right  have;  heade-d  the 
lists  (Lev  11  IS;  I)t  14  13).  The  othe-r  refere-nces 
that  used  to  be  Ir'1  ''vulture"  in  AY  (LNX  e\a<pos, 
6laphos,  Vulg  correctly  milou*)  are1  changed  <e>  "fal- 
e:e>n"  and  ''kite*."  Isa  34  !.">  e;hangos  "vulture"  to 
"kite."  Job  28  7  changes  "vulture"  to  "falcon." 
GENE  STHATTOX-POUTKK 


w 


WAFER,  wa'fer.     See;  BREAD. 

WAGES,  wil'joz,  wil'ji/  ("?n  ,  hinnam,  rnrtp'Q, 
maskorclfi,  H3y?  ,  p^ulldfi,  "CTZJ  ,  xdkhar,  "13tp  ,  sa- 
khilr;  (Ai(r96s,  mislhos,  ovj/coviov,  opsdniori)'.  (1)  Jlin- 
ndin  means  "gratis,"  without  cost  or  any  advan- 
tage, for  nought,  e>r  in  vain;  wage's  in  the  sense; 
of  reasonable;  return.  JeMvmiah  prememuoe'S  woe; 
upon  him  who  "usoth  his  neighbor's  service?  without 
wages,  and  giveth  him  not  his  hire"  (Je'r  22  13; 
the  only  place  whore  the  word  is  useel).  (2)  Mtinkd- 
ri'lh  means  "reward"  or  ''wages."  Laban  said  to 
Jae-ob:  "Shouldest  thou  therefore  serve  me  for 
nought?  tell  me,  what  shall  thy  wage's  be?"  (Gen  29 
lo).  Jace>b  said,  concerning  Laban,  speaking  te) 
Rachel  and  Leah:  "Your  father  hath  deceived  me, 
and  changed  my  wage's  ten  times"  (lien  31  7;  e'f 
ver  41).  (3)  I>e'itl!dh  generally  means  "work," 
"labor,"  "reward,"  "wage's."  The  old  Levitical  Law 
was  insistent  on  honesty  in  wage's  and  on  prompt- 
ness in  payments:  "The  wage's  of  a  hired  servant 
shall  not  abide  with  thce  all  night  until  the  morn- 
ing" (Lev  19  13).  (4)  Jdixlakkcr  means  "earning," 
"hire,"  "re'warel,"  "wages,"  from  root  sdkfiar,  mean- 
ing "to'hire,"  and  has  in  it  the  idea  of  temporary 
purchase:  "lie  that  oarneth  wage's  oarnefh  wages 
to  put  it  into  a  bag  with  hexes' '  (Hag  1  6).  (.5) 
Xdkhar  means  "payment  of  contract,"  in  the  mate- 
rial way  e>f  salary,  maintenance,  fare,  and  so  com- 
pensation, rewarel,  price,  benefit,  wages — seemingly 
wages  received  after  an  understanding  as  to  time, 
manneT  and  amount  e>f  payment.  Laban  (employ- 
er) said  to  Jace)b  (employee):  "Appoint  me  thy 
wages,  and  I  will  give;  it"  (Gen  30  28);  "If  he  said 
thus,  The  speckled  shall  be  thy  wages"  (Gen  31  8); 
Pharaoh's  daughter  said  to  Moses'  mother:  "Take 
this  child  away,  and  nurse  it  fe>r  me,  and  1  will  give 
thee  thy  wages"  (Ex  2  0);  Nebuchadrezzar  ami  his 
army  served  against  Tyre,  "yet  had  he  no  wages, 
ne>r  his  army"  (Ezk  29  18),  and  the  prey  of  Egypt 
"shall  be  the;  wages  fe>r  his  army"  (ver  10);  swift 
anel  sure  judgment  is  preelicteel  against  "those  that 
oppress  the  hireling  in  his  wages,  the  wielow,  anel 
the  fatherless"  (Mai  3  5).  (0)  Misthos  means 
either  in  a  literal  e>r  figurative  se-nse  "pay  for  serv- 
ie-e,"  either  primitive;  or  beneficial,  anel  so  reward, 
hire,  wage's.  In  .In  4  30  Jesus  said,  "He  that  reap- 
eth  recoiveth  wages,  and  gathoroth  fruit  unto  life 
eternal."  2  Pet  2  15  has  changed  "wage's"  (AY) 
to  "hire>,"  reading  "who  loveel  the  hire  e)f  wrong- 
doing." (7)  Opsonion,  meaning  primarily  "rations 
fe>r  soldiers"  (opsoti,  being  the  weml  fe>r  cooked  meat) 
and  so  "pay"  e>r  stipend,  provision  wages.  In  Lk 
3  14  John  said  to  the  soldiers,  "Be  content  with 


your  wages";  "The;  wage's  of  sin  is  death"  (Rom 
6  23);  Paul  said:  "I  robbed  other  churches,  taking 
wages  e>f  them"  (2  Cor  11  8);  the  same;  word  in 
1  Cor  9  7  is  trd  "charges." 

The  Bible  re'fers  to  WARPS  actual  atul  wages  figurative. 
Of  actual  wages  there  arc  three  kinds:  (1)  money  wages, 
(2)  provision  (usually  food)  wages,  and  (3)  what' may  ho 
called  "exchange"  wages,  wages  in  kind,  sometimes 
"human-kind,"  e.g.  Jace>b's  wages  from  Laban.  Often 
laborers  anel  soldiers  received  be>th  money  anel  "keep" 
wage's.  The  laborer  in  XT  times  received  about  15  cents 
per  day  (the,  "shilling"  of  Mt  20  2),  besides  in  somo 
cases  his  provisions.  The;  old  Law  required  daily  pay- 
ment, honesty  in  dealing,  also  sufficient  food  for  the 
laborer. 

It  is  practically  impossible  to  test  "Bible"  wages  by 
any  e>f  the  theories  of  modern  economists.  In  this  con- 
nection, however,  mere  mention  of  the  six  prhieipal 
theories  may  be  of  interest.  Concisely  put  they  are: 
(1)  wage-fund,  (2)  standard-of-living,  (3)  German-social- 
istic, (4)  production,  (.">)  lle-nry  (ieorge's,  anel  ((>)  the 
laborer's-value  theories.  The;  incidents  in  the  OT  of 
Jacob  anel  in  the  NT  of  Mt  20  both  show  that  the 
laborer  was  at  the  caprice  of  the  employer.  Therefore 
we  may  designate  the  Bible  law  of  wages  as  the  "ein- 
plejyer's  theory." 

WILLIAM  EDWARD  RAFFETY 

WAGON,  WAGGON,  wag'un.     See  CART. 

WAIL,  will,  WAILING,  wal'ing.  See  BUKIAL, 
III,  2;  IV,  4,  5,  6. 

WAIT,  wilt:   The  word  is  usexl  in  the  OT  both  as 

a  substantive  and  as  a  vb.     In  the  NT  it  appears 

as   a   vb.   only.     nn«  ,  'ercbh,  S^XE , 

1.  The  Sub-  ma'ardbh,    mean    a    concealeel    hiding- 
stantive          place  fe>r  purposes  of  sudden  attack, 

an  ambuscade.  (1)  "Lie  in  wait": 
"Abimelech  rose  up  ....  from  lying  in  wait" 
(Jgs  9  35  AV);  "When  they  ....  abide  in  the 
covert  to  lie  in  wait"  (Job  38  40).  (2)  "Lay 
wait":  "They  compassed  him  in,  and  laid  wait  for 
him"  (Jgs_16  2). 

(1)  rnitJ ,  sharath,  "to  serve,"  "to  minister,"  to 
act  in  the  capacity  e>f  servant  e>r  attendant :  "Those 

waited    on    the    king"    (2  Ch  17  19). 

2.  The  Verb  I'sed   esp.    in   this   sense   with   regard 

to  the  ceremonial  service  of  the  host: 
"They  shall  go  in  to  wait  upon  the  servie;e  in  the 
work  of  the;  tent  of  mooting"  (Xu  8  24;  cf  ver  25); 
"The  Levites  wait  upem  their  business"  (2  Ch  13 
10  AV).  "Wait,  at"  oe-curs  in  the  same  sense  in 
the  XT:  "They  which  wait  at  [RV  "wait  upon"] 
the  altar,"  etc  (1  Cor  9  13  AV).  (2)  The  simple 
vb.  is  use-el  to  describe  the  longsuffering  anel 
patience'  of  God  tenvard  His  wilful  people:  "And 
the'refore'  will  Jeh  wait,  that  he  may  be  gracious 
unto  you"  (Isa  30  IS);  "When  the  longsuffering 
of  God  waited  in  the  days  of  Noah"  (&irei<8tx.onai, 


Walk 
Wanderings 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


30<>4 


apckdechomai.  1  Pet  3  20).  (3)  The  most  impor- 
tant and  frequent  use  of  the  word  "wait,"  however, 
is  to  define  the  attitude  of  a  soul  God-ward.  It 
implies  the  listening  ear,  a  heart  responsive  to 
the  wooing  of  (lod,  a  concentration  of  the  spiritual 
faculties  upon  heavenly  things,  the  patience  of  faith, 
"the  earnest  expectation  of  the  creation"  (Rom 
8  10).  It  describes  an  eager  anticipation  and 
yearning  for  the  revelation  of  truth  and  love  as 
it  is  in  the  Father.  Thus:  "My  soul,  wait,  llioii 
....  for  (!od  only"  (Ps  62  f>) ;  "Our  soul  hath 
waited  for  Jell"  (Ps  33  20);  "-Mine  eyes  fail  while 
1  wait  for  my  Clod"  (Ps  69  3);  "Wait  for  Jeh, 
and  lie  will  save  tliee"  (Prov  20  22). 

Also  the  NT  thus:  "Waiting  for  our  adoption,  to  wit, 
the  redemption  of  our  body"  (Rom  8  23);  "For  we 
through  the  Spirit  by  faith  wait  for  the  hope  of  right- 
eousness" (tial  5  •">)•  From  various  references  in  the 
NT  there  seems  to  have  been  in  the  days  of  Jesus  a  sect 
in  whose  name  the  word  "wait"  played  an  important 
part  Of  the  aged  Simeon,  who  met  Mary  and  Joseph 
when  they  brought  the  infant  Jesus  to  the  temple,  it  is 
said  that  he  was  "waiting  for  [RV  "looking  for"]  the 
consolation  of  Israel"  i  Uv  2  -'•">>.  that  is,  he  was  looking 
for  the  fulfilment  of  the  Messianic  promise.  Again, 
after  Our  Lord's  crucifixion,  when  Joseph  of  Arimathaea 
begged  for  the,  body  of  Jesus,  we  are  told  that  he  was  one 
of  those  that  "waited  for  tho  kingdom  of  (iod"  (-p.xy- 
^Xo,,,u,  prosdfchomai,  Mk  15  43  AY;  Lk  23  -r,l  AY). 
It  is  thought  by  some  authorities  that  this  implies  their 
having  belonged  to  tho  sect  of  the  Kssenes.  Epiphanius 
associates  the  sect-  with  one  which  he  names  "Gortheni," 
whoso  title  is  derived  from  a,  word  which  means  "to 
ex  pec  I." 

ARTHUR  \\  ALWYX  EVANS 

WALK,  wok  (irepnraTeiv,  peripateiii) '.  Aside  from 
its  frequent  occurrence  in  the  usual  sense,  the 
word  "walk"  is  used  figuratively  of  conduct  and  of 
spiritual  states.  (1)  Observance  of  laws  or  cus- 
toms: "Thou  teaches)  all  the  Jews  who  are  among 
the  Gentiles  to  forsake  Moses,  telling  them  not  to 
circumcise;  their  children,  neither  to  walk  after  the 
customs"  (Acts  21  21).  (2)  Of  the  spiritual  life: 
"If  we  walk  in  the  light,  as  he  is  in  the  light"  (1  Jn 
1  7) ;  "That  like,  as  Christ  was  raised  from  the  dead 
through  the  glory  of  the  Father,  so  we  also  might 
walk  in  newness  of  life"  (Rom  6  4);  "Walk  by  the 
Spirit,  and  ye  shall  not  fulfil  the  lust  of  the  flesh" 
(Gal  5  10);  "For  we  walk  by  faith,  not  by  sight" 
(2  Cor  5  7).  RUSSKLL  BK.NJAMIN  MILLER 

WALL,  wol.  See  AuciurKcrfRK;  CITY;  FOR- 
TIFICATION; HOUSK;  JERUSALEM;  VILLAGE. 

WALLET,  wol'et,  -it.     See  Snm>. 

WANDERING,  won'der-ing,  STARS.  See  AS- 
TRONOMY. 

WANDERINGS,  won'der-ingz,  OF  ISRAEL: 

I.     CONDITIONS 

1.  The  Wilderness 

2.  Four  Separate  Regions  Included 

3.  "The  Sandy  Tract" 

4.  Description  of  the  Arabah 

5.  Physical  Condition  of  the  Wilderness 

6.  Difficulties    Regarding   the    Numbers    of   Israel 
and  Account  of  Tabernacle 

7.  Difficulty  as  to  Number  of  Wagons 

8.  Fauna  of  the  Desert 

0.  Characteristic  Names  of  the  Districts 
II.     FIKST  JOURNEY 

1.  Mode  of  Traveling 

2.  The  Route:  the  First  Camp 

3.  Waters  of  Marah 

4.  Camp  by  the  Red  Sea 

5.  The  Route  to  Sinai 
III.     SECOND  JOURNEY 

1.  The  Stay  at  Sinai 

2.  Sito  of  Kadesh-barnea 

3.  The  Route:  Hazeroth  to  Moseroth 

4.  The  Camps  between   Hazeroth   and   Moseroth 
IV.     THE  THIRTY-EIGHT   YEARS 

1.  The  History 

2.  The  Camps  Visited 


V.     THE   FINAL  JOURNEY 

1.  The  Route 

2.  Tho  Five  Stations  to  the  Border  of  Moab 

3.  From  lyim  to  Arnon 

4.  The  Message  to  Sihon 

5.  From  the  Arnon  to  Shittim 

6.  Review 

/.  Conditions.  — A  consideration  of  the  geography 
and  natural  features  of  the  desert  between  Egypt 

and  Edom,  in  which  the  Hebrews  are 
1.  The  said  to  have  wandered  for  40  years, 

Wilderness  has  a  very  important  bearing  on  the 

question  of  (lie  genuineness  of  the 
Pent  narrative1.  This  wilderness  forms  a  wedge 
between  the  (Julfs  of  Suez  and  *Akabah,  tapering 


Wilderness  of  Judaea. 

S.  to  the  granite  mountains  near  Sinai.  It  has  a 
base  17")  miles  long  E.  and  W.  on  the  X.,  and  the 
distance  N.  and  S.  is  250  miles.  The  area  is  thus 
over  20,000  square  miles,  or  double  the  size  of  the 
Promised  Land  JO.  and  \V.  of  Jordan.  On  the  X. 
of  this  desert  lie  the  plains  of  Gaza  and  (ierar,  and 
the  \~ajhfbh  or  "dry  region"  (the  south;  see  Xu  13 
17  RV),  including  the  plateau  and  low  hills  round 
Beersheba. 

There  are  four  separate  regions  included  in  the 
area,  the  largest    part  (Li, 000  square  miles)  being 

a  plateau  which  on  the  S.  rises  .'5,000 
2.  Four  to  4,000  ft.  above  the  sea,  and  shelves 
Separate  gently  toward  the  Phili  plains.  It 
Regions  is  drained  into  the  broad  Wddy  el- 
Included  Mm/?,  named  from  c/-'.lm/j  ("the 

booth"\  a  station  on  the  Mediter- 
ranean coast  S.  of  Gaza,  where  this  valley  enters  the 
sea.  In  this  direction  several  prominent  mountains 
occur  (Ji-bel  Ydck,  J .  HUM,  and  ./.  Ikhrimm), 
while  further  E. — near  the  site  of  the  Western  Ka- 
desh — there  is  a  step  on  the  plateau  culminating 
on  the  S.  in  Jchcl  i'1-Mnkhrah;  but  none  of  these 
ranges  appears  to  be  more  than  about  4,000  ft. 
above  the  sea.  The  plateau  is  known  as  Badiet 
ct-Tih  ("the  pathless  waste"),  and  though  some 
Aral)  geographers  of  the  Middle  Ages  speak  of  it 
as  the  desert  "of  the  wandering  of  the  Beni  Isnul," 
they  refer  to  the  whole  region  as  far  as  *Akabah, 
and  not  to  the  plateau  alone.  The  elevation  on  the 
S.  forms  a  very  steep  ascent  or  "wall"  (see  SHUR), 
bending  round  on  the  W.  and  E.,  and  rising  above 
the  shore  plains  near  Suez  and  the  ' Arabah  near 
Edom.  Xear  the  center  of  the  plateau  is  the  small 
fort  of  Nakhl  ("the  palms"),  where  water  is  found; 
but,  as  a  whole,  the  Tih  is  waterless,  having  very 
few  springs,  the  most  important  being  those  near 
the  western  Kadesh  ('A in.  Kadis);  for  Rehoboth 
belongs  to  the  region  of  the  Ncghcbh  rather  than  to 
the  Tih.  In  winter,  when  very  heavy  rains  occur, 
the  valleys  are  often  flooded  suddenly  by  a  seil,  or 
"torrent,"  which  is  sometimes  10  ft.  deep  for  a  few 
hours.  Such  a  scil  has  been  known  to  sweep  away 
trees,  flocks,  and  human  beings;  yet,  in  consequence 
of  the  hard  rocky  surface,  the  flood  rushes  away  to 


306,r 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Walk 

Wanderings 


the  sea  anel  soem  becomes  a  mere  rivulet.  When- 
soft  se>il  is  found,  in  the-  valleys,  grass  will  greiw  and 
afford  pasture,  but  even  early  in  spring  the  Arabs 
begin  to  suffer  from  want  eif  water,  which  only  re-- 
rnains  in  pits  anel  in  water  holes  among  reicks. 
They  have  then  much  difficulty  in  watering  their 
goats  and  sheep. 

Below  the  Tih  escarpment  on  the  S.  is  another 

regiein  called  Dcbbct  er-ramleh  ("'the  sandy  tract"), 

which   is  only  20  miles  acmss  at  its 

3.  "The          widest;    and  to  the-  W.  are;  the;  sanely 
Sandy  plains,       with       limestone       foothills, 
Tract"             stretching  K.  of  the  Bitter  Lakes  and 

e>f  the;  (iulf  eif  Sue/.  The  third  re-gion 
consists  e>f  the  granite  chain  (see  SINAI)  which  rises 
to  X, ")")()  ft.  above  the;  sea,  and  some  0,000  ft. 
above;  its  valleys,  near  Jcbii  MUKU.  Paris  of  this 
re-giem  are-  better  watereel  than  is  any  part  eif  the; 
Tih,  and  the  main  route;  from  Kgypt  to  Edom  has 
consequently  always  run  through  it. 

The   fourth  regiein   is   that  of   the  'Aralxili,   e>r  broad 

valley  (.10  miles  wiele')   between  the  Gulf  of  'Aknhnh  and 

the   Dead  Sea.     It  has  a  watershed  some 

4.  Descrip-    ~00   ft.    high   above1    the   Gulf    (S.    of    the 
+;'n«  nf +Via       ne'ighbeirhooel  e>f   Pe'trai;    anel   N.    e>f    this 

shed  the  water  flows  to  the  Deael  Sea  1,292 
Arabah  ft,  below  the-  Mediterranean.  The  total 

length  eif  this  valle-y  is  120  mile's,  the; 
watershed  being  (near  the  Eelomite;  chain)  about  45 
miles  X.  of  '  .1  kulxih.  The-  heael  of  the  Gulf  was  once 
farther  X.;  anel,  near  'Ain  (Ih  ml/tin  (probably  Ezion- 
geber)  anel  'Ain  et-Talmh  (probably  Jotbath),  there  is  a 
mud  Hat  which  becomes  a  lake;  in  winte-r — about  20  miles 
from  the  sea.  Lower  elown — at  'Ain  <-d  Drffiyeh — there 
is  anothe'r  such  Hat,  the;  head  being  10  miles  freim  ' Akn- 
bah.  The;  whole  regiein  is  much  better  watered  than 
either  eif  the  three  preceding  districts,  having  springs 
at  the  feieit  eif  the  mountains  em  either  side;  and  the 
'  Arahah  is  thus  the  best  pastoral  country  within  the 
limits  described.  It  now  supports  a  nomad  population 
of  about  2.000  or  3,000  souls  (ffaiwatAt  and  ' Alawin 
Arabs),  while  the;  re-giem  round  Sinai  has  some  2,000 
souls  (TowArah  Arabs):  the  whole  eif  the  Tih  has  prob- 
ably not  meire  than  ">,000  inhabitants;  for  the  stronger 
tribes  ('  A:A  :imch  anel  Tini/nn)  live  chiefly  be-twe-en  Gaza 
anel  Be-ersheba.  These  Arabs  have;  goats,  she-ep  and 
camels,  but  cattle  are;  only  found  near  Beersheba.  The 
flocks  are  watered  daily — as  in  Pal  geiierally — and  are; 
sometimes  drive-n  20  miles  in  winter  to  find  pasture  and 
water.  The;  wate-r  is  also  brought  on  donke'ys  and 
camels  te>  the  camps,  anel  carried  in  goatskin  bags  on  a 
journey  through  waterless  districts.  See  also  AHAHAH. 

There  is  no  reason  to  think  that  the  conditions 

at  the  time  of  the  Exodus  differed  materially  fremi 

those  eif  the  present  time.     The  Arabs 

5.  Physical    have  cut  elown   a  geiod   many  acacia 
Condition       trees  feir  firewood  in  recent,  times,  but 
of  the  the  population  is  teie>  small  materially 
Wilderness    to  affect  the  vegetation.     The  annual 

rainfall — e>xcept  in  years  of  drought — is 
from  10  to  20  in.,  anel  snow  falls  in  winter  on  the 
Tih,  anel  whitens  Sinai  anel  the  Edomite  mountains 
feir  many  days.  The  acacia,  tamarisk  anel  palm 
grow  in  the  valleys.  At  Wdr/y  Feiran  there  are  said 
to  be  .5,000  date  palms,  anel  they  occur  also  in  the 
''Arabah  anel  the  Edomite  gorges,  while  the  white 
broom  (1  K  19  o,  AV  "juniper")  grows  on  the  Tih 
plateau.  This  Tih  plateau  is  the  bed  of  an  ancient 
ocean  which  once  surmuneled  the  granite  memntains 
of  Sinai.  It  was  upheaved  probably  in  the  Miocene 
age,  lemg  befe>re  man  appeared  em  earth.  The  sur- 
face formation  (Hull,  Memoir  on  the  Geology  and 
Geography  of  Arabia- PC  Irac-a,  ete%  1X86)  consists  of 
Cretaceous  limestones  eif  the  Eoce-ne  and  Chalk  ages, 
beneath  which  lies  the  Nubian  sanelstone  of  the 
Greensand  period,  which  is  also  visible  all  along  the 
route  from  Sinai  to  *Akabah,  anel  em  the  east  siele  of 
the  Deael  Se-a,  anel  even  at  the;  feieit  of  the  (lileael 
plateau.  These  beds  are  all  visible  in  the  Tih  escarp- 
ment ;  and  N.  of  Sinai  there  are  yet  oleler  formations 
of  limestone,  anel  the  "desert  sandstone"  eif  the  Car- 
boniferous pcrioel.  Since  the  conditions  of  natural 
water-supply  depend  entirely  em  ge-eileigical  forma- 
tion and  on  rainfall,  neither  of  which  can  be  re- 


garded  as  having  changed  since  the  time  of  Moses, 
the  scientific  conclusion  is  that  the  desert  thus  de- 
scribed represents  that  of  his  age.  This,  as  we  shall 
see,  affects  our  conclusion  as  to  the  route;  followed 
by  Israel  from  Egypt  to  the  \\rahnh;  for,  on  the 
direct  route  from  Sue/  to  Nnkhl  (about  70  miles), 
there;  is  no  water  for  the  main  part  of  the;  way,  so 
it  has  to  be;  carried  on  camels;  while,  E.  eif  Nakhl, 
in  a  elistance;  of  SO  mile's,  there;  is  only  one'  known 
supply  in  a  well  (Kir  fl/i-  Thcined)  a  few  mile's  S.  of  the; 
road.  This  route  was  thus  practically  impassable 
fe>r  the'  Hebrews  anel  their  beasts,  whereas  the  Sinai 
route  was  passable.  Thus  when  Wellhatisen  (///'.^ 
of  Israel  anil,  Judah,  313)  spe'aks  eif  Israel  as  going 
straight,  te>  Kaelesh,  and  neit  making  a  "eligressiem 
te>  Sinai,"  he;  seems  not,  to  have;  cemsielere-d  the- 
topography  as  described  by  many  mexleni  travelers. 
For  not  only  was  the-  wlmle  object  eif  the-ir  journey 
first  to  visit,  (he;  "Memnt  of  C,e>d,"  but  it  also  lav 
em  the  meist  practicable  route  to  Kadesh. 

it  is  true  that  there  are'  certain  difTle-uIties  as  regards 
both  the  numbers  of  Israel  and  the>  account  of  I  lie  taber- 
nacle-.     The-    first    of    these    objections    has 
6     Diffi-  been   Considered   elsewhere;    (sec;    EXOIM-I 

The;  detaileel  account  of  the  tabernacle; 
(Ex  25-28;  36-39)  belongs  to  a  part  of 
the-  Pent  which  many  critical  writers  as- 
sign to  a  late;r  date;  than  that  of  the  eilel  narrative  and 
laws  (Ex  1-24).  The-  description  may  se-em  more  appli- 
cable to  the  semi-permanent  structure  that  existed  at 
Shiloh  and  N"e>b,  than  te>  the;  original  "tent  of  meeting" 
in  the  desert.  On  the  either  hand,  living  so  long  in  civi- 
lized Egypt,  the  lie-brews  no  doubt  had  among  them 
skilled  artificers  like;  Bezalel.  The  Egyptians  use-el 
acacia  wood  for  furniture;  and  though  the; 'desert  acacia 
eloes  not  gre>w  to  the  size;  which  would  furnish  planks  1  i 
cubits  broad,  it  may  be  that  these  were  made  up  bv 
joiner's  we>rk  sue'h  as  the  ancients  were  able  to  execute. 
There  was  plenty  of  gold  in  Kgypt  and  Asia,  but  mine 
near  Sinai.  It  is  suggested,  however,  that  the  ornaments 
e)f  which  the  Hebrews  spoile-el  the  Egyptians  were  pre- 
sented, like  the  stuffs  (Ex  36  0)  wrought  for  the  cur- 
tains— just  as  the  Arabs  weave  stuffs  for  their  tents  - 
and  they  might  have  served  to  spread  a  thin  layer  of 
golel  over  acacia  beiarels,  anel  on  the  acacia  altar.'  It  is 
more  difficult  to  understand  (em  our  present  information) 
where  silve-r  enough  for  the;  bases  (Ex  26  25)  would  be- 
femnd.  Copper  (27  4)  presents  less  difficulty,  since 
there  were  ce>ppcr  mines  in  Wddy  Xu*b  ne-ar  Serdhit  d 
KhAilim.  The  women  gave  gold  ea'rrings  to  Aaron 
(32  3)  for  the  Golden  Calf,  but  this  may  have  been  a 
small  obje-ct.  Eusebius  (Onnm),  referring  te>  Di/ahab, 
"the  place  of  gold"  (Dt  1  1),  now  Dhahab  ("gold")  on 
the;  west  shore  of  the  Gulf  e>f  ' Akabah,  E.  of  Sinai,  me'ti- 
tions  the  copper  mines  of  Punon,  and  themght  that  veins 
of  gold  plight  also  have  existed  in  the  mountains  of  Edom 
in  old  time's.  A  little  golel  is  also  found  in  Midian.  We 
know  that  the  Egyptians  anel  Assyrians  carried  arks 
anel  portable  altars  with  their  armies,  and  a  great  leather 
tent  e>f  Queen  Habasu  actually  exists.  Thothmes  III, 
before  the  Exodus,  speaks  of  "seven  tent  poles  covered 
with  plates  of  gold  freim  the  tent  of  the  hostile  king" 
which  he  took  as  spoil  at  Megiddo.  The  art  of  engraving 
ge-ms  was  also  already  ancient  in  the  time  of  Moses.  See 
NUMBERS,  BOOK  OF. 

Another  elifficulty  is  to  understand  how  six  e>x 

wagons   (Xu  7  3)   sufficeel   to  carry  all  the  heavy 

planks  and  curtains,  and  vessels  of  the 

7.  Difficulty  tabernacle;    and  though  the  use  of  e>x 
as  to  Num-  carts,    and    of    four-wheeled    wagons 
ber  of  alsei,   is  knenvn   to  have  been  ancient 
Wagons          in  Asia,  t he-re-  are  points  on  even  the 

easiest  route  which  it  would  seem  im- 
possible for  wagons  to  pass,  esp.  on  the  rough  roael 
through  Edom  and  Moab.  On  the  other  hand,  we 
know  that  an  Egyp  Mohar  eliel  drive  his  chariot 
over  the  mountains  in  Pal  in  the  reign  of  Rameses 
II,  though  it  was  finally  broken  near  Joppa. 

Whatever  bethought  as  to  these  questions,  1  he-re 
are  indications  in  other  passages  of  actual  acquaint- 
ance with  the  desert  fauna.     Although 

8.  Fauna  of  the-  manna,  as  describeel    (Ex  16  31), 
the  Desert     is  saiel  ne>t  to  resemble  the-  swe-et  gum 

which  exudes  from  the  twigs  of  t  he- 
tamarisk  (to  which  it  has  been  compared  by  some'), 
which  melts  in  the-  sun,  and  is  regareled  as  a  delicacy 
by  the  Arabs,  yet  the  quail  (Ex  16  13;  Nu  11 


Wanderings 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3066 


31)  still  migrate  from  the  sea  northward  across  the 
desert  in  spring,  flying  low  by  night.  The  birds 
noticed  (Lev  11;  Dt  14)  include — as  Canon  Tris- 
tram remarked — species  found  on  the  seashores  and 
in  the  wilderness,  such  as  the  cormorant,  pelican 
and  gull;  the  ostrich  (in  the  desert  E.  of  Moab); 
the  stork,  the  crane  and  the  heron  which  migrate 
from  Africa  to  the  Jordan  valley.  It  is  notable 
that,  excepting  the  heron  (Assyr  an  pain),  the  Hob 
names  are  not  those  used  by  later  Assyrians.  The 
mammals  include  the  boar  which  loves  the  marshes, 
and  the  hyrax  (AV  "coney")  which  still  exists  near 
Sinai  and  in  the  desert  of  Judah,  with  the  desert 
hare.  It  is  remarkable  that  in  Dt  (14  5),  besides 
the  ibex  and  the  bubak,  two  species  are  added  (the 
fallow  deer,  Heb  '"////«/,  AV  "hart,"  and  the  roe- 
buck, Heb  yahinur,  Arab.  y<ih»mr,  AV  "fallow 
deer")  which  are  not  desert  animals.  The  former 
occurs  at  Tabor;  the  latter  was  found  by  the 
present  writer  in  1X73  on  Carmcl,  and  is  since 
known  in  (Jilead  and  Lebanon.  But  Dt  refers  to 
conditions  subsequent  to  the  capture  of  Gilead  and 
Bashan. 

The  various  districts  in  the  desert   receive  char- 
acteristic;   names    in    the    account    of    the    Exodus. 

Thus  Shur  is  the  coast  region  under  the 
9.  Charao  "wall"  of  the  Till,  and  Sin  (Ex  17  1; 
teristic  Nu  33  1  1)  was  the  "glaring"  desert 

Names  of  (see  SINAI)  of  white  chalk,  \V.  of  Sinai. 
the  Districts  Paran  is  noticed  10  t,  as  a  desert  and 

mountain  region  (Dt  33  2;  Hab  3  3) 
between  Sinai  and  Kadesh.  The  name  .seems  to 
survive  in  Wadi/  Fciran  W.  of  Sinai.  It  means 
some  kind  of  "burrows,"  whether  referring  to 
mines,  caves  or  water  pits,  according  to  the  usual 
explanation;  but  in  Arab,  the  root  also  means 
"hot,"  which  is  perhaps  more  likely.  The  term 
seems  to  be  of  very  wide  extension,  and  to  refer  to 
the  Tih  generally  (den  21  21);  for  David  (1  S 
25  1)  in  Paran  was  not  far  from  Maon  and  Carmel 
S.  of  Hebron,  and  the  same  general  application 
(1  K  11  IS)  is  suggested  in  another  passage. 
Finally  the  desert  of  Zin  (<VN)  is  noticed  9  t,  and 
very  clearly  lay  close  to  Kadesh-barnea  and  E.  of 
Paran  (Nu  13"21;  20  1;  34  3;  Dt  32  51;  Josh 
15  3).  The  rabbis  rendered  it  "palm"  (<,'in),  which 
is  appropriate  to  the  *Arahah  valley  which  still 
retains  the  old  name  mentioned  in  Dt  1  1.  These 
various  considerations  as  to  the  conditions  to  be 
fulfilled  may  serve  to  show  that  the  difficult ies  often 
raised,  as  to  the  historic  character  of  the  Exodus 
narrative,  have  been  much  overstated;  and  a  further 
study  of  the  various  journeys  serves  to  confirm  this 
view. 

//.  First  Journey. — Israel  left  Egypt  in  the  early 
part  of  April  (after  the  14th  of  Abibj  and  reached 

Sinai  about  the  14th  or  19th  of  the 
1.  Mode  of  3d  month  (Ex  19  1),  or  at  the  end  of 
Traveling  May.  They  thus  took  two  months  to 

accomplish  a  journey  of  about  117 
miles;  but  from  the  first  camp  after  crossing  the 
Red  Sea  to  that  in  the  plain  before  the  Mount  ten 
marches  are  mentioned,  giving  intervals  of  less  than 
12  miles  between  each  camp.  Thus  they  evidently 
remained  in  camp  for  at  least  50  days  of  the  time, 
probably  at  the  better  supplied  springs,  including 
that  of  "the  starting-point,  and  those  at  Elim  and 
Rephidim,  in  order  to  rest  their  flocks.  The 
camps  were  probably  not  all  crowded  round  one 
spring,  but  spread  over  a  distance  of  some  miles. 
The  Arabs  indeed  do  not  camp  or  keep  their  flocks 
close  to  the  waters,  probably  in  order  not  to  defile 
them,  but  send  the  women  with  donkeys  to  fetch 
water,  and  drive  the  sheep  and  goats  to  the  spring 
or  well  in  the  cool  of  the  afternoon.  Thus  we  read 
that  Amalek  "smote  the  hindmost"  (Dt  25  18), 
which  may  either  mean  the  stragglers  unable  to 


keep  up  when  "weary,"  or  perhaps  those  in  the  camp 
most  in  the  rear. 

The  route  of  Israel  has  been  very  carefully  de- 
scribed by  Robinson  (BR,  183S,  I,  60-172;   II,  95- 
195),  and  his  account  is  mainly  follow- 

2.  The  ed  in  this  and  the  next  sections.     We 
Route:  the     may  place  the  firs!  camp  (see  EXODUS), 
First  Camp    between     the    springs    which     supply 

Suez  (*Ain  AY;// a  and  'Ayytin  Mtisa), 
which  are  about  4  miles  apart .  The  first  of  these  is 
scooped  out  among  the  sand  hillocks,  and  bubbles 
up  in  a  basin  some  0  ft .  dee]).  The  water  is  brack- 
ish, but  supplies  as  many  as  200  camel  loads  at 
once  for  Sue/,.  At  *Ai/ytin  M'uwi  ("the  springs  of 
Moses")  there  are  seven  springs,  some  being  small 
and  scooped  in  the  sand.  A  few  palms  occur  near 
the  water  (which  is  also  brackish),  and  a  lit  tie  barley 
is  grown,  while  in  recent  times  gardens  of  pome- 
granates have  been  cultivated  (A.  E.  Haynes, 
Man-Hunting  in  the  Desert,  1S94,  100),  which,  with 
the  palms,  give  a  grateful  shade. 

From  this  base  Israel  marched  "three  days  in  the 
wilderness"  of  Shur,  "and  found  no  water"  (Ex  15 

22).     They   no  doubt  carried   it  with 

3.  The  them,  and  may  have  sent  back  camels 
Waters  of      to  fetch  it.     Even  when  they  reached 
Marah  the   waters   of   Marah    ("the  bitter") 

they  found  them  undrinkuble  till 
sweetened.  The  site  of  Marah  seems  clearly  to 
have  been  at  Mm  IJdirdrah  ("the  white  chalk 
spring"),  named  from  the  chalky  mound  beside  it. 
This  is  30  miles  from  ^Ayyun  Muxa,  giving  an  aver- 
age daily  march  of  12  miles.  There  is  no  water  on 
the  route,  though  some  might  have  been  fetched 
from  *Ain  Aha  Jtrad  in  Wddy  Sudr,  and  from  the 
small  spring  of  A  hit  tfnn'cinth  near  the  sea.  Burck- 
hardt  thought,  that  the  water  was  sweetened  from 
the  berries  of  the  GharJfad  shrub  (which  have  an 
acid  juice)  on  the  thorny  bushes  near  the  spring. 
This  red  berry  ripens,  however,  in  June.  There  is 
no  doubt,  on  the  other  hand,  that  the  best  treat- 
ment for  brack  water  is  the  addition  of  an  acid 
taste.  The  Arabs  consider  the  waters  of  this  spring 
to  be  the  most  bitter  in  the  country  near. 

From  Marah,  the  next  march  led  to  Elim  ("the 
palms")>  where  were  "twelve  springs  [not  "wells"] 

of   water   and    seventy    palms."     The 

4.  The  site    seems    clearly    to    have    been    in 
Camp  by        Wadij    (Hiannulil,    where    a    brook    is 
the  Red  Sea  found  fed  by  springs  of  better  water 

than  that  of  Marah.  The  distance  is 
only  about  0  miles,  or  an  easy  march,  and  palm 
t  rees  exist  near  the  waters.  Israel  then  entered  the 
desert  of  Sin,  stretching  from  Elim  to  Sinai,  reaching 
a  camp  "by  the  Red  Sea"  (Nu  33  10)  just  a  month 
after  leaving  Egypt  (Ex  16  1).  The  probable  site 
is  near  the  mouth  of  Wddy  et-Taiyibeh  ("the  goodly 
valley"),  which  is  some  10  or  12  miles  from  the 
springs  of  GharnndiL  The  foothills  here  project 
close  to  the  coast,  and  N.  of  the  valley  is  Jcbd 
IJnmn/ani  Far' a un  ("the  mountain  of  Pharaoh's 
hot  bath"),  named  from  hot  sulphur  springs.  The 
water  in  Wady  ct-Taiyibch  is  said  to  be  better  than 
that  of  Marah,  and  this  is  the  main  Arab  watering- 
place  after  passing  GharnndiL  A  small  pond  is  here 
described  by  Burckhardt  at  el-Murkhat,  in  the  sand- 
stone rock  near  the  foot  of  the  mountains,  but  the 
water  is  bitter  and  full  of  weeds,  moss  and  mud. 
The  site  is  close  to  a  broad  shore  plain  stretching  S. 
Here  two  roads  diverge  toward  Sinai,  which  lies 
about  65  miles  to  the  S.E.,  and  in  this  interval  (Nu 
33  11-15)  five  stations  are  named,  giving  a  daily 
march  of  13  miles.  The  Hebrews  probably  took 
the  lower  and  easier  road,  esp.  as  it  avoided  the 
Egyp  mines  of  Wddy  el-M<t(/liarah  ("valley  of  the 
cave")  and  their  station  at  tierabit  el-Khadim 
("pillars  of  the  servant"),  where — though  this  is 


3067 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HI  RLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA          Wanderings 


not  certain  -there  may  have  been  n  detachment 
of  bowmen  guarding  the  mines. 

None  of  the  five  camps  on  this  section  of  the  route 
is   certainly   known.     Dophkah   apparently   means 
"overdriving"    of    flocks,    and    Alush 
5.  The  (according  to  the  rabbis)  ''crowding," 

Route  to        thus  indicating  the  difficulties  of  the 
Sinai  march.      Rephidim      ("refreshments") 

contrasts  with  these  names  and  indi- 
cates a  better  camp.  The  site,  ever  since  the  4th 
cent.  AD,  has  always  been  shown  in  \Vady  Fi'irdn 
(Eusebius,  Onoin,  .s.v.  "Rephidim") — an  oasis  of 
date  palms  with  a  running  stream.  The  distance 
from  Sinai  is  about  IS  miles,  or  14  from  the  western 
end  of  the  broad  plain  cr-Rnhah  in  which  Israel 
camped  in  sight  of  Horeb;  and  the  latter  name 
(Ex  17  0)  included  the  Desert  of  Sinai  even  as 
far  W.  as  Rephidim.  Here  the  rod  of  Moses, 
smiting  the  rock,  revealed  to  the  Hebrews  an 
abundant  supply,  just  as  they  despaired  of  water. 
Here  apparently  they  could  rest  in  comfort  for  some 
three  weeks  before  the  final  march  to  the  plain '  'before 
the  mount"  (Ex  19  1.2),  which  they  readied  two 
months  after  leaving  Egypt.  Here  Amalek — 
coming  down  probably  from  the  mines — attacked 
them  in  the  rear.  Meanwhile  there  was  ample  time 
for  the  news  of  their  journey  to  reach  Midian,  and 
for  the  family  of  Moses  (Ex  18  1-5)  to  reach  Sinai. 
On  one  of  the  low  hills  near  Wndy  Feirdtt,  Moses 
watched  the  doubtful  fight  and  built  his  stone  altar. 
A  steep  pass  separates  the  oasis  from  the  Rdhah 
plain,  and  baggage  camels  usually  round  it  on  the 
N.  by  Wddy  esh-Sheikh,  which  may  have  been  the 
actual  route.  The  Rephidim  oasis  has  a  fertile 
alluvial  soil,  and  the  spot  was  chosen  by  Christian 
hermits  perhaps  as  early  as  the  3d  cent.  AD. 

///.    The  Second  Journey. — Israel  remained   at 
Mt.  Sinai  for  10  months,  leaving  it  after  the  Pass- 
over of  the  "second  year"  (Nu  9  1-3), 

1.  The  and   apparently  soon  after  the  feast, 
Stay  at  since,  when  they  again  witnessed  the 
Sinai               spring  migration  of  the  quail  (11  31) 

"from  the  sea" — as  they  had  done  in 
the  preceding  year  (Ex  16  13)  farther  W.— they 
were  already  about  20  miles  on  their  road,  at  Kib- 
roth-hattaavah,  or  "the  graves  of  lust."  _ 

(1)  In  order  to  follow  their  journey  it  is  necessary 
to  fix  the  site  of  Kadesh-barnea  to  which  they  were 

going,  and  there  has  been  a  good  deal 

2.  Site  of       of  confusion  as  to  this  city  since,  in 
Kadesh-         1844,  Rev.  John  Rowlands 'discovered 
barnea  the  site  of  the  western  Kadesh,  at  lAin 

Kadis  in  the  northern  part  of  the  Tih. 
Robinson  pointed  out  (BR,  II,  194,  n.  3)  that  this 
site  could  not  possibly  be  right  for  Kadesh-barnea; 
and,  though  it  was  accepted  by  Professor  Palmer, 
who  visited  the  vicinity  in  January,  1870,  and  has 
been  advocated  by  Henry  Clay  Trumbull  (Kadesh- 
barnea,  1884),  the  identification  makes  hopeless 
chaos  of  the  OT  topography.  The  site  of  '•Ain 
Kadis  is  no  doubt  that  of  the  Kadesh  of  Hagar  (see 
SHUR),  and  a  tradition  of  her  presence  survives 
among  the  Arabs,  probably  derived  from  one  of  the 
early  hermits,  since  a  small  hermitage  was  found 
by  Palmer  in  the  vicinity  (Survey  of  Western  Pal, 
Special  Papers,  1881,  19).  But  this  spring  is  not 
said  to  have  been  at  the  "city"  of  Kadesh-barnea, 
which  is  clearly  placed  at  the  southeast  corner  of 
the  land  of  Israel  (Josh  15  3),  while,  in  the  same 
chapter  (ver  23),  another  site  called  Kedesh  is 
mentioned,  with  Adadah  (*Ada'deh  7  miles  S.E.  of 
Arad)  and  Hazor  (at  Jebel  Hadireh] ;  this  Kedesh 
may  very  well  have  been  at  the  western  Kadesh. 

(2)  Kadesh-barnea  is  noticed  in  10  passages  of 
the  OT,  and  in  16  other  verses  is  called  Kadesh  only. 
The  name  probably  means  "the  holy  place  of  the 
desert  of  wandering,"   and — as  we  shall  see — the 


wanderings  of  Israel  were  confined  to  the  *Arabah. 
The;  place  is  described  as  "a  city  in  the  uttermost 
....  border"  of  Edom  (Nu  20  16),  Edom  being 
the  "red  land"  of  Mt.  Seir,  so  called  from  its  red 
sandstones,  as  contrasted  with  the  while  Tih.  lime- 
stone. It  is  also  very  clearlv  placed  (Nu  34  3.4) 
S.  of  the  Dead  Sea  (cf  Josh  15  3),  while  Ezekiel 
also  (47  19)  gives  it  as  the  southeastern  limit  of  the 
land,  opposed  to  Tamar  (Tarn rah  near  Oa/.a)  as  the 
southeastern  border  town.  A  constant  tradition, 
among  Jews  and  Christ  ians  alike,  idenf  ifies  Kadesh- 
barnea  with  Petra,  and  this  as  early  as  the  time  of 
Jos,  who  says  that  Aaron  died  on  a  mountain  near 
Petra  (Ant,  IV,  iv,  7),  and  that  the  old  name  of 
Petra  was  Arekem  (vii,  1).  The  Tg  of  Onkelos 
(on  Nu  34  4)  renders  Kadesh-barnea  by  "Rekem 
of  the  (i'aia,"  and  this  narn(- — meaning  ••many- 
colored" — was  due  to  the  many-colored  rocks  near 
Petra,  while  the  g'aia  or  "outcry"  is  probably  that 
of  Israel  at  Meribah-kadesh  (Nu  27  14),  and  may 
have  some  connection  with  the  name  of  the  village 
d-Jii,  at  Petra,  which  is  now  called  Wddy  Musa 
("the  valley  of  Moses")  by  the  Arabs,  who  have  a 
tradition  that  the  gorge  leading  to  Petra  was  cloven 
by  the  rod  of  Moses  when  he  struck  the  rock  at  the 
"waters  of  strife"  (Nu  27  14),  forming  the  present 
stream  which  represents  that  of  "Meribah  of  Ka- 
desh." Eusebius  also  (Onom  s.v.  "Barne")  con- 
nects Kadesh  with  Petra,  and  this  traditional  site 
so  fully  answers  the  requirements  of  the  journey  in 
question  that  it  may  be  accepted  as  one  of  the  best- 
fixed  points  on  the  route,  esp.  as  the  position  of 
Hazeroth  agrees  with  this  conclusion.  Hazeroth 
(Nu  11  35;  12  16;  33  17;  Dt  1  1)  means  "in- 
closures,"  and  the  name  survives  at  *Ain  Hadrah 
("spring  of  the  inclosure")  about  30  miles  N.E.  of 
Mt.  Sinai  on  the  way  to  the  'Arabah.  It  was  the 
3d  camp  from  Sinai,  the  1st  being  Taberah  (Nu  11 
3)  and  the  2d  Kibroth-hattaavah  (11  35),  giving  a 
daily  march  of  10  miles.  See  KADKSH-BARXEA. 

\fter  passing  Hazeroth  (12  16;  13  3)  the  journey 
appears  to  have  been  leisurely,  and  Israel  probably 
camped  for  some  time  in  the  best  pastures 
of  the  M  rnhnh.  For  the  spies  wen;  sent 
from  Paran  near  Hazeroth  to  explore  the 
route  to  Kadwh,  and  to  examine  the 
"south  country"  through  which  Israel 
hoped  to  enter  Pal  (13  17.21).  They 
explored  this  district  (13  21;  32  8)  from 
"the  wilderness  of  Zin,"  or  otherwise 
"from  Kadesh-barnea,"  on  the  E.,  to  Rehob — probably 
Rehoboth  (now  er-Ruheibeh) — on  the  W.;  and — having 
been  absent  40  days  (13  25)— after  visiting  Hebron 
(ver  22)  they  returned  by  the  direct  route  leading  S. 
of  Arad  (Tell  'Ar&d)  to  Petra,  which  road  is  called  (21  1) 
the  "  way  of  the  spies."  On  their  return,  in  the  season  of 
"  first-ripe  grapes "  (13  20),  they  found  Israel  at  Kadesh 
(13  26).  No  place  N.  of  Hebron  is  mentioned  in  the 
account  of  their  explorations,  and  it  is  difficult  to  suppose 
that,  in  40  days,  they  could  have  reached  the  Syrian  city 
of  Hamath,  which  is  some  350  miles  N.  of  Petra,  and 
have  returned  thence.  Tho  definition  of  Rehob  (men- 
tioned before  Hebron)  as  being  'on  the  coming  to 
Hamath'  (13  21)  is  best  explained  as  a  scribe's  error, 
due  to  an  indistinct  MS,  the  original  reading  being 
h&ldyeth  (jnSbrt).  and  referring  to  tho  classical  Elusa 
(now  Khalnxah)'  which  lies  10  miles  N.  of  Rehoboth  on 
the  main  road  to  Beersheba  and  Hebron.  Israel  left  Sinai 
in  the  spring,  after  the  Passover,  and  was  near  Hazeroth 
in  tho  time  of  the  qtiail  migration.  Hazeroth  possesses 
the  only  perennial  supply  of  water  in  the  region,  and 
from  its  vicinity  the  spies  set  forth  in  August. 

Most  of  the  sites  along  this  route  are  unknown, 
and  their  position  can  only  be  gathered  from  the 
meaning  of  the  names;  but  the  6th 
station  from  Hazeroth  was  at  Mt. 
Shepher  (Nu  33  23),  and  may  have 
left  its  name  corrupted  into  Tell  el- 
*Asfar  (or  Vls/ar),  the  Heb  meaning 
"the  shining  hill,"  and  the  Arab, 
either  the  same  or  else  "the  yellow." 
This  site  is  60  miles  from  Hazeroth, 
giving  a  daily  march  of  10  miles.  As  regards  the 


3.  The 

Route: 


tr> 


Moseroth 


4.  The 

Camps 

between 

Hazeroth 

and 

Moseroth 


Wanderings 
War,  Warfare 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3068 


other  stations,  Rithmah  means  "broomy,"  referring 

to  the  white  desert  broom;  Rimmon-perez  was  a 
"cloven  height,"  :uul  Libnah  a  "white"  chalky 
place;  Rissah  means  "dewy,"  and  Kehelathah, 
"gathering."  From  Alt.  Shepher  the  distance  to 
the  vicinity  of  Mt.  I  lor  is  about  55  miles,  and  seven 
stations  an1  named,  giving  an  average  march  of  8 
miles.  The  names  are  Haradah  (Nu  33  24), 
"fearful,"  referring  to  a  mountain;  Makheloth, 
"gatherings";  Tahath — probably  "below" — mark- 
ing the  descent  into  the  *Arabah;  Terah,  "delay," 
referring  to  rest  in  the  better  pastures;  Mithkah, 
"sweetness"  of  pasture  or  of  water;  Hashmonah, 
"fatness";  and  Moseroth,  probably  meaning  ''the 
boundaries,"  near  Alt.  llor.  These  names,  though 
now  lost,  agree  well  with  a  journey  through  a  rugged 
region  of  white  limestone  and  yellow  sandstone, 
followed  by  a  descent  into  the  pastoral  valley  of  the 
\\rabah.  The  distances  also  are  all  probable  for 
flocks. 

IV.    The    Thirty-eight    Years.- —From    the    time 

of  their  first  arrival  at  Kadesh-barnea,  in  t  he  aut  iiinn 

of   the  2d  year,   to   the  day  that   the 

1.  The  Hebrews  crossed   the  brook  Zered  in 
History           Aloab  on  their  final  march,  is  said  to 

have  been  a  period  of  38  years  (Dt. 
2  14),  during  which  the  first  generation  died  out, 
and  a  strong  race  of  desert  warriors  succeeded  it. 
During  this  period  Israel  lived  in  the  nomadic 
state,  like  modern  Arabs  who  change  camp  accord- 
ing to  the  season  within  well-defined  limits,  visiting 
the  higher  pastures  in  summer,  and  wintering  in 
the  lower  lands.  On  their  first  arrival  near  Kadesh- 
barnea,  they  were1  discouraged  by  the  report  of  the 
spies,  and  rebelled;  but.  when  they  were  ordered 
to  turn  S.  ''by  the  way  of  the  Red  Sea"  or  (Julf  of 
*Ak(iba1i;  they  made  an  unsuccessful  attempt  to 
enter  Pal  by  the  way  of  the  spies  (Nu  14  25-45). 
They  were  discomfited  by  Amalekites  at  Hormah 
("cutting  off"),  which  place  is  otherwise  called 
Zephath  (Jgs  1  17).  Here  also  they  were  again 
defeated  by  the  king  of  Arad  (\u  21  1.3)  in  the 
early  autumn  of  the  40th  year  of  wandering.  This 
site  may  well  be  placed  at.  the  ascent  now  called 
Nukb  I'x-Sufiili  ("the  pass  of  Zephath"),  which  pre- 
serves the  Ileb  name,  45  miles  N.W.  of  Alt.  llor, 
on  the  main  road  from  Hebron  to  Petra.  The 
route  is  well  watered,  and  *Ain  Yemen  is  a  spring 
at  the  foot  of  this  ascent  leading  to  the  higher  ter- 
race of  the  77/i.  Arad  lies  N.  of  the  road,  and  its 
Can.  king  no  doubt  marched  S.  some  40  miles,  j 
to  defend  the  top  of  the  ascent  down  which  the 
Amalekites  had  driven  the  first  generation  of 
Hebrews,  who  returned  to  the  Kadesh-barnea 
camp. 

We  are  not  left  without  any  notice  of  the  stations 
which    Israel   visited,   and   no   doubt    revisited   an- 
nually, during  the  38  years  of  nomadic 

2.  The  life.     We  have  in  fact  three;  passages 
Camps  which   appear   to  define   the  limits  of 
Visited  their  wanderings.      (1)   In  the  first    of 

these  (Nu  33  31-30)  we  find  that 
they  left  Moseroth,  near  Alt.  llor,  the  site  of  which 
latter  has  always  been  shown — since-  the  time  of 
Jos  at  least — at  the  remarkable  mountain  W.  of 
Petra.,  now  called  Jcbii  Ildrun  ("Aaron's  Moun- 
tain"); thence  they  proceeded  to  the  wells  of  the 
Bene-jaakan,  to  Hor-haggidgad,  and  to  Jotbathah. 
Hor-haggidgad  (or  (Judgodah,  Dt  10  7)  signifies 
apparently  the  "hill  of  thunder,"  and  the  word  is 
not  in  any  way  connected  with  the  name  of  Wadtj 
Ghadaghid  ("the  valley  of  failing  waters"),  apply- 
ing to  a  ravine  W.  of  the  *Arabah;  for  the  Heb  and 
Arab,  words  have  not  a  letter  in  common.  The  site 
of  Jotbathah,  which  was  in  "a  land  of  brooks  of 
waters"  (Dt  10  7),  is,  on  the  other  hand,  pretty 
clearly  to  be  fixed  at  'Am  et-Tdbah  ("the  good 


spring"),  2S  miles  N.  of  'Akabali,  and  about  40 
along  tin;  road  from  Alt.  Hor.  This  .spring,  near  a 
palm  grove,  feeds  the  winter  lake  of  el-Tubali  io  its 
W.  inthe*Arafoah.  The  next  station  was  Abronah 
("the  crossing";,  and  if  this  refers  to  crossing  the 
*Arabah  to  tin;  western  slopes,  we;  are  naturally 
brought — on  the  return  journey — to  Ezion-geber, 
at  lAin-ghudian  (the  usual  identification),  which 
springs  from  the  western  slopes  of  the  Tih  on  the 
side  of  the  lake  opposite  to  Jotbathah.  Thence  the 
migrants  gradually  returned  to  Kadesh. 

(2)  The   second    passage;    (Dt  10  0.7)    is   one   of 
many   geographical  notes  added   to   the   narrative 
of  the  wanderings,  and  gives  the  names  in  a  differ- 
ent   order — Wells   of    the    Bene-jaakan,   Aloserah, 
Gudgodah,  and  Jotbathah — but  this  has  little  im- 
portance, as  the  camps,  during  38  years,  would  often 
be  at  these  springs. 

(3)  The  third  passage  is  in  the  preface  to  Dt 
(1   1.2),  which  ("numerates  the  various  places  where 
Moses  spoke  to  Israel  at  various  times  after  leaving 
Sinai.     These  include  the  region  E.  of  Jordan,  the 
wilderness,  the  *Ar<ih<ih,  "over  against  Suph,''  with 
all  the  district  between  Paran  and  Tophel   (now 
T /{filch,  on  the  southern  border  of  Moab),  as  well 
as   Laban    (probably    the    Libnah   of    Nu  33  20), 
Ila/eroth,  and  Dizahab  which  may  be  Dhuhab  on 
the  seashore  E.  of  Sinai.     This  list,  with  the  val- 
uable   notes    added   showing    that   Kadesh-barnea 
was  1 1  days  from  Horeb  in  the  direction  of  Alt.  Seir, 
refers  to  speeches  down  to  the  last  days  of  Moses' 
life.     The  wanderings  of  the  38  years  do  not  include 
the  march  through  Edom  and  Aloab;    and,  though 
it  is  of  course  possible  that  they  may  have  extended 
to  Hazeroth  and  Sinai,  it  seems  more  probable  that 
they  were  confined  to  the  ^Ardbah   between  Petra 
and  Jotbathah.     Elath  (now  ^Akabah),  on  the  east- 
ern shore  at  t  he  head  of  the  gulfs,  is  not  mentioned; 
for  the  raised  beach  S.  of   the  Lake  of   Jotbathah 
would    not   give   pasture.     In   summer   the   camps 
would  be  on  the  western  slopes  of  the  valley,  where 
grass  might  be  found  in  April;    and  the  annual  mi- 
grations were  thus  within  the  limits  of  some  500  sq. 
miles,  which  is  about  the  area  now  occupied  by  a 
strong  tribe  among  Arabs. 

V.  The  Final  Journey. — In  the  1st  month  of  the 
40th  year  (Nu  20  1)  Israel  was  at  Kadesh  in  the 

desert  of  Zin,  where  Aliriam  was  buried. 
1.  The  They  were  troubled  once  more  by 

Route  want  of  water,  till  Moses  smote  the 

rock  of  Meribah  ("strife").  They 
were  commanded  to  keep  peace  with  their  relatives 
of  Edom  and  Aloab,  whose  lands  were  not  attacked 
by  the  Hebrews  till  the  time  of  Saul,  and  of  David 
and  his  successors.  They  camped  on  the  border  of 
Kadesh,  desiring  to  reach  the  main  road  to  Aloab 
through  the  city;  and,  when  this  was  refused  by 
the  king  of  Edom,  they  withdrew  a  few  miles  W. 
to  Mt.  Hor.  Here  Aaron  was  buried,  and  was 
mourned  for  30  days  (Nu  20  29),  after  which  the 
2d  attempt  to  reach  Hebron  by  the  main  road  (21  1) 
was  also  repulsed.  Since,  on  this  occasion,  Israel 
remained  "many  days"  in  Kadesh  (Dt  1  46)  and 
left  it  less  than  38  years  after  they  first  reached  it 
in  autumn,  it  would  seem  that  they  may  have 
started  in  August,  and  have  taken  about  a  month 
to  reach  the  brook  Zered;  but  only  five  stations  are 
noticed  (Nu  21  10-12;  33  41-44)  on  the  way. 
They  are  not  said — in  any  passage — to  have  gone 
to  Elath,  but  they  turned  "from  mount  Hor  by  the 
way  to  the  Red  Sea,  to  compass  the  land  of  Edom" 
(Nu  21  4),  or,  as  otherwise  stated  (Dt  2  8),  they 
went  "from  the  way  of  the  Arabah"  on  the  road 
which  led  "from  Elath  and  from  Ezion-geber"; 
and  thus,  starting  on  the  "way  to  the  Red  Sea," 
they  "compassed  mount  Seir  many  days,"  turning 
"northward"  by  the  "way  of  the  wilderness  of 


3009 


THE  INTERNATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIP.LE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Wanderings 
War,  Warfare 


Moab"  (Dt  2  1.8)  after  passing  through  the  coast 
of  Eclom  (2  4). 

If  the  list  of  flvu  stations  is  complete,  we  may  suppose 
that   they   left   the   ' Arabah  road   not  many   miles   S.    of 
Petra,    striking    10.    by    an    existing    road 
9     The  T?I'UA   leading    to    MA' an.    and    thus   gaining   the 
*!   T.  e   high  plateau  above  Petra  to  the  E.,  and 

stations  to  reaching  the  present  Udj  route.  This 
the  Border  view  is  confirmed  by  the  notice  of  Punon 
r>f  Mnah  as  tll('  L>(1  (l;ulll>.  if  wo  accept  the  statement 

of  Kusebius  (Ou,,m,  s.v.  "Plnnon");  for 
he  appears  to  have  known  it  as  an  Edomite 
village  N.  of  Petra,  in  the  desert,  whore  convicts  were 
employed  digging  copper.  The  name,  however,  has  not 
been  recovered.  The  preceding  camp  at  Zalmonah  sug- 
gests some  "gloomy"  valley  leading  up  to  the  Edomite 
plateau.  N.  of  Punon,  the  ad  camp  was  at  Oboth 
("water  bags"),  and  the  4th  was  at  lyim  or  lye-abarim 
("the  ruins"  or  "the  ruins  of  the  crossings"),  the  site 
of  which  is  pretty  certainly  at  '  Aimt-k,  a  few  miles  N.  of 
Tophel.  The  total  distance  thus  seems  to  have  boon 
about  00  miles  for  four  inarches,  or  15  miles  a  day.  lyim 
was  "in  the  border  of  Moab"  (Xu  33  44)  and  in  the 
desert  facing  Moab,  in  the  East  (21  llj. 

Here  therefore  Israel  left  Edom;  and  between  lyim 

and  the  river  Arnon,  in  a  distance  of  about  .'32  miles, 

only  one  station  is  mentioned,  being  at 

3.  From         the    valley    of    Zered    (21  12;     Dt  2 
lyim  to  13.14).     This  has  usually  been  placed 
Arnon             at  \\'ddij  cl-IJcxy  ("the pebbly  valley"), 

which  flows  into  the  Dead  Sea,  having 
its  head  near  lyim;  but  this  is  evidently  too  far  S., 
and  it  is  no  doubt,  the  great  gorge  at  Kcrnk  that  is 
intended,  having  its  head  close  to  the  II aj  road,  half- 
way from  lyim  to  Arnon,  giving  a  daily  march  of  16 
miles.  The  traditional  identification  of  the  Arnon 
with  Waily  Mojib  is  rendered  certain  by  the  posi- 
tions of  Diban  (Dhiban)  and  Aroer  ('Ar'azV)  close  by. 
It  was  the  border  of  the  Amorites,  who  had  driven 
thje  Moabites  S.  of  this  river  (Nu  21  13;  Dt  2  30), 
depriving  them  of  their  best  lands  which  stretched 
to  Heshbon,  These  Amorites  were  apparently 
recent  intruders  who,  with  the  Hittites  (see  II  IT- 
TITKS),  had  invaded  Damascus  and  Bashan  from 
North  Syria,  and  who  no  doubt  had  thus  brought 
the  fame  of  Balaam  from  Pethor  (Nu  22  ,5),  on  the 
Euphrates  near  Carchemish. 

The  Hebrews  were  now  a  strong  people  fit  for 
war,  and  Moses  sent  messengers  from  the  "wilder- 
ness    of     Kedemoth"     (Dt  2  20)     to 

4.  The  Sihon  in  Heshbon,  demanding  a  peace- 
Message        ful  passage  through  his  lands,  such  as 
to  Sihon        had  been  accomplished  through  Edom 

and  Moab.  Kedemoth  ("the  Eastern 
Lands")  was  evidently  the  desert  of  Moab. 

It  was  objected,  by  Oolenso,  to  the  narrative  of  the 
Pent  that,  since  Israel  only  reached  the  brook  Zered  in 
autumn  of  the  40th  year,  only  six  months  are  left  for  the 
conquest  of  North  Moab,  Gilead  and  Bashan.  But  it 
must  be  remembered  that  the  Hebrews  left  all  their 
impedimenta  in  the  "plains  of  Moab"  (Xu  22  1)  oppo- 
site Jericho  at  Shittim,  so  that  the  advance  of  their  army 
in  Gilead  and  Bashan  was  unimpeded.  The  Assyrians 
in  later  times,  covered  in  a  season  much  longer  distances 
than  are  attributed  to  Heb  conquerors,  and  the  six  months 
leave  quite  enough  time  for  the  two  missions  sent  from 
Moab  (Xu  22  5-36)  to  fetch  Balaam.  See  NUMBERS 
BOOK  OF. 

(1)   It   is  notable  that,  for  the  march  from  the 

Arnon   to  Shittim,   we  have  two  lists  of  stations. 

That  which  is  said  to  have  been  written 

5.  From         down  by   Moses  himself   (Nu  33  45- 
the  Arnon      49)  mentions  only  four  stations  in  a 
to  Shittim     distance   of   about    25    miles — namely 

Dibon-gad,  Almon-diblathaim,  Nebo 
and  the  plains  of  Moab,  where  the  camps  were  placed 
at  various  waters  from  Beth-jeshimoth  (K-AcimeJi) 
on  the  northeastern  shore  of  the  Dead  Sea  to  Abel- 
shittim  ("the  Meadow  of  Acacias"),  now  called 
the  Ghor  es-Seiseb&n,  or  "Valley  of  Acacias."  In 
this  area  of  50  square  miles  there  were  four  running 
streams,^ besides  springs,  and  excellent  pasture  for 
flocks.  This  therefore  was  the  headquarters  of  the 
nation  during  the  Amor  it  c  war. 


(2)  In  the  2d  list  (\u  21  1 :i  20)  we  read  of  a  still 
more  gradual  and  cautious  advance  in  the  Amorite  lands 
and  tins  may  represent  the  inarch  of  the  main  bodv  fol- 
lowing the  men  of  war.  Leaving  the  Arnon,  they 
reached  "a  well"  (Beer),  probably  near  Dibon,  this 
being  one  of  those  shallow  water  pits  which  the  Arabs 
still  scoop  out  in  the  valleys  when  the  water  runs  below 
the  surface.  Between  Arnon  and  Pisgah  (or  N'eboj  no 
less  than  five  stations  are  noticed  in  about  20  miles 
namely  Beer,  Mattanah  ("the  gift";,  Nahaliel  r'tho  valley 
of  tiod"),  Bamoth  (or  Bamoth-Baal  [Nu  22  -11  j  "the 
monuments  of  Baal"),  and  Pisgah  (J,-t,rl  N,bn).  Of 
these  only  the  last  is  certainly  known,  but  the  central 
station  at  Nahaliel  may  be  placed  at  the  great  gorge  of 
the  Zcrka  Mft  din,  the  road  from  Dibon  to  Nebo  crossing 
its  head  near  Beth-moon.  There  was  plenty  of  water  in 
this  vicinity.  The  last  stage  of  Israel's  march  thus  seems 
to  represent  a  program  of  onlv  about  4  miles  a  das- 
covered  by  the  more  rapid  advance  of  the  fighting  men; 
and  no  doubt  the  women,  children  and  Hocks  were  not 
allowed  to  proceed  at  all  until,  at  least,  Sihon  had  been 
driven  from  Heshbon  (Nu  21  21-25J. 

We  have  thus  considered  every  march  made  by 
the  Hebrews,  from  Egypt  to  Shittim,  by  the  light 
of  actual  knowledge  of  their  route. 
6.  Review  We  have  found  no  case  in  which  the 
stations  are  too  far  apart  for  the  pas- 
sage of  their  beasts,  and  no  discrepancies  between 
any  of  the  accounts  when  carefully  considered.  If, 
as  some  critical  writers  think,  the  story  of  the  spies 
and  the  list  of  camps  said  to  have  been  written  down 
by  Moses  are  to  be  attributed  to  a  Heb  priest 
writing  in  Babylonia,  we  cannot  but  wonder  how 
he  came  to  be  so  accurately  informed  as  to  the 
topography  of  the  wilderness,  its  various  regions, 
its  water-supply  and  its  natural  products.  It  does 
not  seem_  necessary  to  suppose  a  "double  source," 
because,  in  the  spring  of  two  successive  years,  the 
manna  is  noticed,  and  Israel  is  recorded  as  having 
eaten  the  quail  flying  (as  now)  by  night  to  the 
Jordan  valley  from  Africa.  The  march  was  not 
continuous,  and  plenty  of  time  is  left,  by  the  re- 
corded dates,  for  the  resting  of  the  flocks  at  such 
waters  as  those  of  Elim,  Rephidim  and  Hazeroth. 
The  wanderings  of  the  38  years  represent  a  nomadic 
life  in  the  best  pastures  of  the  region,  in  and  near 
the  'Arabah.  Here  the  new  race  grew  up — hardy 
as  the  Arabs  of  today.  When  they  left  Egypt  the 
Pharaoh  still  had  a  firm  hold  on  the  "way  of  the 
Philistines,"  and  the  Canaanites  owned  his  sway. 
But  40  years  later  Egypt  was  defeated  by  the  Amor- 
ites, and  the  forces  of  the  Pharaoh  were  withdrawn 
from  Jerus  after  suffering  defeat  in  Bashan  (see 
Am  Tab,  no.  (54,  Brit.  Mus.,  where  no  less  than  nine 
known  places  near  Ashteroth  and  Edrei  are  noticed) ; 
general  chaos  then  resulted  in  Southern  Pal,  when 
the  *Abiri  (or  Hebrews)  appeared  from  Seir,  and 
"destroyed  all  the  rulers"  (see  EXODUS).  This, 
then,  was  the  historic  opportunity  for  the  defeat 
of  the  Amorites,  and  for  Joshua's  conquest  of  the 
Promised  Land.  C.  R.  COXDKR 


WAR,    wor,    WARFARE,    wor'far 
milhdmdh,   '"C   "ttBj|5,   '«/(.s7/e    m.,    "men    of   war," 
"soldiers";    ir6\€p.os,    pdlemos,    iroXefieiv,    palcnicin, 
-Oai,  stratetiesthai,  o-Tpand,  strut  id); 


1.  Religions  Significance  7.   Defeat  and  Victory 

2.  Preliminaries  8.   Spoils  and  Trophies 
:i.  Operations  of  War  9.  Treaties  of  Peace 

4.  Strategy  10.   War  in  the  NT 

5.  Important  Requisites  LITERATURE 
G.  Characteristics 

From  an  early  period  of  Heb  history  war  had  a 
religious  significance;.  The  Hebrews  were  t  he  people 

of  Jeh,  and  they  were  reminded  in  their 
1.  Religious  wars  by  the  priest  or  priests  who  ac- 
Significance  companied  their  armies  that  Jeh  was 

with  them  to  fight  their  battles  (Dt 
20  1-4).  It  was  customary  to  open  a  campaign, 
or  to  enter  an  engagement,  with  sacrificial  rites 
(1ST  8-10;  13  9).  Hence,  in  the  Prophets,  to 
"prepare"  war  is  to  carry  out  the  initiatory  religious 


War,  Warfare 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3070 


rites  and  therefore  1<>  ''sanctify"  war  (Jer  6  4;  22 
7;  51  27.2S;  Mir  3  f>;  Joel  3  '.);  RVm  in  each 
rase);  ami  Isaiah  even  speaks  of  .Jeh  mustering  His 
host  and  summoning  to  battle  His  "consecrated 
ones"  (Is;i  13  3),  the  warriors  consecrated  by  the 
sacrifices  offered  before  the  war  actually  opened. 
The  religious  character  attaching  1«>  war  explains 
•ilso  the  taboo  which  \ve  find  associated  with  it 
(1)1  20  7;  23  10;  2  S  11  11). 

(1)  Religious   preliminaries. — It  was   in   keeping 
with  this  that  the  oracle  should  be  consulted  before 

u  campaign,  or  an  engagement  (Jgs 
2.  Pre-  20  ISff;  1  S  14  157;  23  2;  28  <>; 
liminaries  30  S).  The  ark  of  Cod  was  believed 

to  be  possessed  of  special  virtue  hi 
assuring  victory,  and,  because  it  was  identified  in 
the  eyes  of  the  Israelites  with  the  presence  of  Jeh, 
it  was  taken  into  battle-  (1  S  4  3).  The  people 
learned,  however,  by  experience  to  put  their  trust 
in  Jeh  Himself  and  not  in  any  outward  token  of 
His  presence".  At  the  battle  of  Ebene/.er  the  ark 
was  taken  into  the  light  with  disastrous  results  to 
Israel  (1  S  4  -4-ffj.  On  the  other  hand  at  the  battle 
of  Michmash,  the  sacred  ephod  at  Saul's  request 
accompanied  the  Israelites  into  the  field,  and  there 
was  a  great  discomfit  lire  of  the  Pliilis  (1  S  14  IS). 
In  the  later  history  prophets  were  appealed  to  for 
guidance  before  a  campaign  (1  K  22  ">;  2  K  3  11), 
although  fanatical  members  of  the  order  sometimes 
gave  fatal  advice,  as  to  Ahab  at  Ramoth-gilcad,  and 
probably  to  Josiah  at  Megiddo.  I'pon  occasion 
the  king  addressed  the  host  before  engaging  the 
enemy  (2  Ch  20  20-22,  where  Jehoshuphat  also  had 
singers  to  go  before;  the  army  into  battle);  and 
Judas  Maccabaeus  did  so,  with  prayer  to  Cod,  on 
various  occasions  (1  Mace  3  oS;  4  30;  5  32). 

(2)  Military  preliminaries— The  rail  to  arms  was 
given  bv  sound  of  trumpet   throughout  the  land 
(.Jgs  3  27;   6  34;    1   S  13  3;  2  S  15  10;   20  1;    cf 
Nu  10  2).     It  was  the  part  of  the  priests  to  sound 
an   alarm   with   the   trumpets   (2  Ch  13   12-16;    cf 
1   Mare  4  -10;   16  S),  and  the  trumpets  were  to  be 
blown  in  time  of  battle  to  keep  Cod  in  remembrance 
of  Israel  that  they  might  gain  the  victory.     In  the 
Prophets,   we  find  the   commencement   of  war  de- 
scribed as  the  drawing  of  the  sword  from  its  sheath 
(Ezk  21  3  IT),  and  the  uncovering  of  the  shield  (Isa 
22  (i).     Graphic  pictures  of  the  mobilizing  of  forces, 
both  for  invasion  and  for  defence,  are  found  in  Isa 
(22  (>-S)  and    Nah    (3  2)  and  other   Prophets.     It 
was  in  the  springtime  that  campaigns  were_ usually 
opened  or  resumed  after  a  cessation  of  hostilities  in 
winter  (2  S  11  1 ;   1  K  20  22.211). 

Of  the  actual  disposition  of  troops  in  battle  then- 
are  no  full  accounts  till  the  Maccabean  time,  but  an 
examination  of  the  Bib.  battlefields  by 
modern  travelers  with  knowledge  of 
military  history  has  yielded  valuable 
results  in  showing  the  position  of  the 
combatants  and  the  progress  of  the 
fight  (an  excellent  example  in  Dr.  William  Miller's 
L('<i*t  of  All  Ltnuls,  <Sf>ff,  HGfT,  ir>OfT,  where  the 
battles  of  Michmash,  Elah  and  Cilboa  are  de-scribed 
with  plans).  With  the  Israelites  the  order  of  battle 
was  simple.  The  force  was  drawn  up,  either  in-line, 
e>r  in  three  divisions,  a  center  and  two  wings.  _The>re 
was  a  rearguard  (called  in  AV  "rereward,"  in  R\ 
"rearward")  to  give>  protection  on  the  ninrrh  or  to 
bring  in  stragglers  (Jgs  7  10;  1  S  11  11;  2  S  18  2 
1  Mace  5  33;  cf  also  Nu  10  2:>;  Josh  6  9;  1  S  29 
2;  Isa  58  S).  The  signal  for  the  charge  and  the 
retreat  was  given  by  sound  of  trumpet.  There 
was  a  battle-cry  to  inspire  courage  and  to  impart 
confidence  (Jgs  7  20;  Am  1  14,  etc).  The  issue 
of  the  battle  depended  upon  the  personal  courage 
and  endurance  of  the  combatants,  fighting  man 
against  man,  but  there  were  occasions  when  the 


3.  Opera- 
tions of 
War 


ecision  was  le-ft,  to  single  combat,  as  at  the  battle 
,f  Elah  between  the"  giant  Coliath  and  the-  stri])ling 
David  (1  S  17).  The  combat  at  Oibe-on  between 
the  men  of  Benjamin,  twelve  in  number,  followers 
of  Ish-bosheth,  and  twelve"  of  the  servants  of  David, 
in  which  each  slew  his  man  and  all  fell  together  by 
mutual  slaughter,  was  the-  preluele  to  "a  very  sore 
battle"  in  which  Abne-r  and  the-  men  of  Israel  were 
beaten  before  the  servants  of  David  (2  S  2  1G)._ 

To  the"  minor  operations  of  war  belong  the-  raid, 
,-uch  as  the"  Philis  made  into  the"  Valley  of  He-phaim 
(1  Ch  14  <)),  the-  foray,  the  object  of  which  was 
pluneler  (2  S  3  22),  the-  foraging  to  secure"  supplies 
(2  S  23  11  mi,  and  the  movements  of  bands  who 
captureel  defenceless  inhabitants  and  sold  them  as 
slave>s  (2  K  5  2). 

Of  strategical  movements  in  war  there  was  the 

ambush  with  liers-in-wait  resorted  to  by  Joshua  at 

Ai    (Josh  8  3t'f);     the"   feint,    resetted 

4.  Strategy    to  bv  the-   Israelites  against    the-  tribe 

of  Benjamin  (Jgs  20  20  IT) ;  the  flank 
movement,  adopt  eel  by  David  in  the  Valley  of 
Rephaim  to  rout  the  Philis  (2  S  5  22 f);  and  the 
surprise,  inflict e-el  successfully  at  the  Waters  of 
Me-rom  upon  the  Canaanite-s  under  Jabin  by  Joshua 
(Josh  11  1  f).  Of  all  these  the  story  of  Judas  Mac- 
cabaeus, the"  great,  military  leade-r  of  the  Jewish 
nation,  furnishes  illustrations  (1  Mace  4  5  and  else- 
where-). 

Among  the  requisites  for  the  proper  conduct  of 

war  the  most    important  was  the-  camp  (mnh&neh). 

Of  the-  exact  configuration  of  the  camp 

5.  Impor-       of  the:  Israelites,  it  is  not  possible  to 
tant  Requi-    speak   with   certainty.     The   camp   of 
sites  Israel  in  the:  wilelerness  seems  to  have 

been  quadrilateral,  although  some- have 
supposed  it  to  be:  round  or  triangular  (Nu  2  1  f'f). 
The  camp  in  the  wilelerness  was  furnished  with 


Roman  Standards  or  Banners. 

From  M.inlfaur.ni   (1,  2l .      IU.JK-   i:),  4).      Arrh  of  Titus  C,) . 

ensigns  and  standards — the  family  ensign  (T>th), 
and  a  standard  (tlc</hcl)  for  the"  group  of  tribes 
occupying  each  of  the:  four  sieles.  The  standard 
or  banner  (//r.s)  is  use-el  of  the  signal  for  the  muster- 
ing of  troops,'  but  standard-bearer,  which  occurs 
only  once-  in  the  Bible,  is  a  doubtful  reading  (Isa 
10  IS,  where  RVm,  "sick  man,"  is  rather  to  be 
followed).  In  time-  of  war  the-  camp  was  surrounded 
by  a  barricade,  or  wagon-rampart  (mofgal),  as  at 
Elah  (1  S  17  20);  and  Saul  lay  within  such  a  bar- 
ricade in  the  wilderness  of  Ziph  with  his  people 
round  about  him  when  David  surprised  him  and 
carried  off  his  spear  (1  S  26  5  f'f).  Tents  were 
used  for  the  shelter  of  troops,  at  any  rate  when 


3071 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA       War,  Warfare 


occupied  with  a  sie'ge  (2  K  7  7),  ;il( hough  at,  (he 
siege  of  Kabbah  we  read  of  booths  for  (he  purpose- 
(2  S  11  11).  Pickets  were  sel  te>  watch  thecani|), 
and  (he  watch  was  changed  three  t inies  in  (he  course 
of  (he  night  (Jgs  7  19;  1  Mace  12  27).  It  was 
usual  to  leave  a  guard  in  charge  of  (he  camp  when 
(he  force  went  into  action  or  went  off  upon  a  raid 
(1  S  25  13;  30  10).  Careful  prescriptions  \verc 
laid  down  for  the  preservation  of  (he  purity  of  the 
camp,  "for  Jeh  thy  C!o<l  walketh  in  the  midst  of  thy 
camp,  ....  therefore  shall  thy  camp  be  holy"  (D't 
23  9-14;  cf  Nu  5  1-4). 

Garrisons  (mn^dhli)  were  placed  in  occupation 
of  fortresses  and  strategical  centers  (2  Cli  17  2). 
No  doubt  the  caves  in  the  hillsides  and  rocky  fast- 
nesses of  the  land,  as  at  Michmash,  would  serve 
for  their  reception  (1  .S  13).  The  garrisons,  how- 
ever, which  are  expressly  mentioned,  were  for  the 
most  part  military  posts  for  the  occupation  of  a 
subject  country — Philis  in  Israelitish  territory  (1  S 
13  2.'];  14  1.11),  and  Israelites  in  Syrian  and  Edom- 
ite  territory  (2  S  8  6.14). 

Among  the  characteristic  notes  of  war,  the  tu- 
mult and  the  shouting  were  often  noticed  by  the 
sacred  historians  (1  8  4  0;  14  19; 

6.  Char-         2  K  7  0).     In  the  figurative  language 
acteristics      of  the  prophets  the  (errors  and  horrors 

and  devastation  of  war  are  set  forth 
in  lurid  colors.  "The  snorting  of  his  horses  is  heard 
from  Dan,'' is  Jeremiah's  description  of  an  invad- 
ing army,  "at  the  sound  of  the  neighing  of  his  strong 
ones  the  whole  land  trembleth"  (Jer  8  10).  'The 
crack  of  the  whip  and  the  noise  of  the  rumbling 
wheel  and  the  galloping  horse,  and  the  jolting 
chariot  and  the  rearing  horsemen;  and  the  Hash  of 
the  sword  and  the;  glitter  of  the  spear,  and  the  mul- 
titude of  slain;  and  a  mass  of  dead  bodies  and  no 
end  to  the  carcases'  (Nah  3  2-4:  J.  M.  P.  Smith's 
tr  in  ICC).  Because  of  the  devastation  of  terri- 
tory and  the  slaughter  of  men  which  it  entails,  the 
sword  is  named  with  famine  and  "noisome  beasts" 
(ARV  has  "evil  beasts")  and  "pestilence"  as  one  of 
(lod's  "four  sore  judgments"  (Ezk  14  21  AV). 
By  a  familiar  figure  "'the  sword"  is  often  taken 
for  all  the  operations  of  war,  because  it  is  char- 
acteristic of  it  to  devour  and  to  destroy  (2  S  2  26; 
Jer  2  30). 

While  the  treatment  of  the  vanquished  in  the 

wars  of  Israel  never  reached  the  pitch  of  savagery 

common   in   Assyr  warfare,   there  are 

7.  Defeat      not    wanting    examples    of    excessive 
and  Victory   severity,    such    as    David's  treatment 

of  his  Moabite  prisoners  (2  S  8  2) 
and  of  the  Ammonites  captured  at  Kabbah  (2  S 
12  31),  and  Menahem's  barbarous  treatment  of 
Tiphsah  (2  K  15  10;  cf  Nu  31  17;  Josh  6  21). 
That  it  was  common  for  the  Philis  (o  mutilate;  and 
abuse  their  prisoners  is  shown  by  Saul's  determi- 
nation not  to  fall  into  their  hands  (1  S  31  4).  On 
that  occasion  (he  Philis  not  only  stripped  the  slain, 
but  cut  off  Saul's  head  and  fixed  his  bodv  to  the 
wall  of  Bethshan  (1  S  31  9.10).  It  was  usual  to 
carry  off  prisoners  and  sell  them  as  slaves  (2  K  5 
2;  1  Mace  3  41).  The  conquerors  were  wont  to 
deport  the  population  of  the  subjugated  country 
(2  K  17  0),  to  carry  off  treasure;  and  impose  tribute 
(2  K  16  8),  and  even  to  take  the  gods  into  cap- 
tivity (Isa  46  1).  On  the  other  hand,  the  victors 
were  hailed  with  acclamations  and  songs  of  rejoicing 
(I  S  18  0),  and  victory  was  celebrated  with  public 
thanksgivings  (Ex  15  I;  Jgs  5  1;  1  Mace  4  24). 

The  spoils  of  war,  spoken  of  as  booty  also — 
armor,  clothing,  jewelry,  money,  captives  and  ani- 
mals— falling  to  the  victors,  were;  divided  equally 
between  those  who  had  taken  part  in  the  battle 
and  those  who  had  been  left  behind  in  camp  (Nu 
31  27;  Josh  22  8;  1  S  30  24  f).  A  proportion 


of  the  spoils  was  reserved  for  the  Levites,  and  "a 

tribute    unto    the     Lord"    was    also    levied     before 

distribution  was  made  of  the  collected 

8.  Spoils         booty    (Nu   31  28.30).     To    the    Lord, 
and  in  (he  Israelitish  interpretation  of  war, 
Trophies         the  spoils  truly  belong,  and  we  see  this 

exemplified  at  the  capture  of  Jericho 
when  the  silver  and  the  gold  and  the  vessels  of  brass 
were  put  into  the  treasury  of  the  house  of  the  Lord 
(Josh  6  24).  ruder  (he  monarchy,  part  of  the 
spoils  fell  to  the  king  who  might  in  (urn  dedicate 
it  to  (he  Lord  or  use  it  for  the  purposes  of  war 
(2  K  14  14;  1  Ch  18  7.11).  The  armor  of  (he 
conquered  was  sometimes  dedicated  as  a  trophy  of 
victory  and  placed  in  the  temple  of  (he  heathen  or 
preserved  near  the  ark  of  Cod  (1  S  21  9;  31  9). 

As  the  blast  of  the  war-horn  summoned  (o  war, 

so  it  intimated  (he  cessation  of   hostilities    (2  S  2 

28);    and   as   to   draw   the   sword   was 

9.  Treaties    the  token  of  the  entrance  upon  a  cam- 
of  Peace         paign,  so  to  return  it  to  its  sheath,  ot- 
to put   it.   up   into   the   scabbard,   was 

emblematic  of  the  establishment  of  peace;  (Je>r  47 
6).  As  ambassadors  were  sent  (o  summon  1o  war 
(Jer  49  14),  or  to  dissuade  from  war  (2  Ch  35  21), 
so  ambassadors  were  employed  to  negotiate  peace 
(Isa  33  7).  Treaties  of  peace  were  made  on  occa- 
sion between  combatants,  as  between  Ahab  and 
Ben-hadad  II  after  the  defeat  of  the  latter  and  his 
fortunate  ese-ape  from  the  hands  of  Ahab  with  his 
life;  (1  K  20  30.31).  By  the  appeal  of  Ben-hadad's 
representative  to  Ahab's  clemency  his  life  was 
spared,  and  in  return  therefor  he  granted  (o  Ahab 
the  right  to  have  bazaars  for  trade  in  Damascus  as 
his  father  had  had  in  Samaria  (1  K  20  34).  Al- 
liances, offensive  and  defensive,  were  common,  as 
Ahab  and  Jehoshaphat  against  Syria  (1  K  22  2  ff), 
Jehoram  and  Jehoshaphat  and  the  king  of  Edom 
against  Moab  (2  K  3  7  ff),  and  the  kings  of  (he 
West,  including  Ahab  and  Hadadezer  of  Damascus, 
to  resist  Shalmaneser  II  of  Assyria,  who  routed 
the  allies  at  (he  battle  of  Karkar'in  854  BC.  It  is 
among  the  wonderful  works  of  Jeh  that  lie  makes 
war  to  ce>ase  (o  (he  end  of  the  earth,  (hat  He  breaks 
the  bow,  and  cuts  the  spear  in  sunder,  and  "burneth 
the  chariots  in  the  fire"  (Ps  46  9).  And  prophe(ic 
pictures  of  the  peace  of  the  latter  days  include  the 
breaking  of  "the  bow  and  the  sword  and  the;  battle 
out  of  the  land"  (IIe>s  2  18),  the  be-ating  of  "swe>rds 
into  plowshares,  ami  ....  spears  into  pruning- 
hoe>ks"  (Isa  2  4;  Mic  4  3). 

Among  the  signs  of  the  last  days  given  by  Our 

Lord  are  "wars  and   rumors  e>f  wars"    (Mt  24  0' 

Mk  13  7;     Lk  21  9;     21  24).     Jesus 

10.  War  in    accepts   war    as    part   of    the    pre'sent 
the  NT  world-order,  anel  draws  from  it  an  im- 
pressive   illustration    of    the    exacting 

conditions  of  Christian  discipleship  (Lk  14  31  ff). 
He  foresees  henv  Je'rus  is  to  be  encompassed  with 
armies  anel  ele-voted  te>  the;  bittere-st  extre>mi(ies  of 
war  (Lk  19  41  ff).  lie'  eionceives  Himse-lf  e-ome1,  not 
to  send  pe»ace;  on  earth,  but  a  sworel  (Mt  10  34); 
and  declares  that  the;y  who  take  the  sworel  shall 
pe-rish  by  the  sweml  (Mt  26  52).  The  apostle's 
trae-e1  war  (o  the  selfishness  and  greenl  of  men  (Jas 
4  Iff);  the-y  see,  spe>aking  figuratively,  in  fle'shly 
lusts  enemies  which  war  against  the  soul  (1  Pet  2 
11);  they  finel  in  war  apt  figure's  e>f  the  spiritual 
struggle  and  Divine  preite-ction  and  ultimate  victe>ry 
of  the  Christian  (Remi  7  23;  8  37;  2  Ce>r  10  35' 
1  Tim  1  18;  He  13  13;  1  Pet  1  5),  and  of  the 
triumphs  of  Christ  Himself  (2  Cor  2  14;  Col  2  15; 
Eph  2  10.17).  St.  Paul  maele  the  acquaintance' 
of  the  barrae-ks,  both  at  Jems  and  at  Cae'saiva 
(Acts  21  34.37;  23  35);  and  at  Ke>me  his  bonds 
became  familiar  to  the  me'inbe'rs  of  the-  Praetorian 
guard  who  were  from  time  (o  time'  eletailed  to  have 


War,  Man  of 
Wasp 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3072 


him  in  keeping  (Phil  1  13).  It  is  under  t  lie  figures 
of  battle  ;ind  war  that  St.  John  in  the  Apocalypse 
conceives  the  age-long  conflict  between  righteousness 
and  sin,  Christ  and  Satan,  and  the  final  triumph  of 
the  Lamb,  who  is  King  of  kings,  and  Lord  of  lords 
(Rev  16  14-10;  17  14;  19  14).  For  other  refer- 
ences see  AKMY,  9;  PR.ETORIAN  GUARD;  THKATY. 

LITKU  VTI-KK.  —  BonzinKor,  art.  "  Kriegswesen  "  in 
Her/of,',  KK3,  XI;  Xowack,  Hebr&ische  Archaeologie, 
72;  Browne,  llt'b  Antiquities,  44-47. 

T.   NlCOL 

WAR,  MAN  OF  (n'Cnb'G  TlTX  ,  'Ish  miUiamah}: 

"Jehovah  is  a  man  of  war: 
Jehovah  is  his  name"  (Ex  15  3). 

In  early  Israel  the  character  of  Jeh  as  the  war-God 
forms  a  prominent  feature  in  the  conception  of  God 
(Nu  10  35;  21  14;  Josh  5  13;  10  11;  Jgs  6  4.13. 
202331,  etc).  See  GOD,  NAMES  OF,  III,  8;  LORD 
OF  HOSTS;  and  HIM,  V,  635  ff. 

WARD,  word:  "Ward"  and  "guard"  are  two 
different  spellings  of  the  same  word,  and  in  conse- 
quence no  clear  line  can  be  drawn  between  them. 
EV,  however,  has  used  "guard"  only  in  the  sense  of 
"a  special  body  of  soldiers"  (Gen  37  36,  etc),  while 
"ward"  is  used,  not  only  in  this  sense  (Jer  37  13; 
contrast  39  9),  but  also  'in  a  variety  of  others.  So 
a  "ward"  may  mean  "any  body  of  men  on  special 
duty,"  as  1  Ch  9  23;  AV  1  Ch  26  Hi;  Neh  12 
24  25  (RV  "watch"),  or  the  duty  itself,  as  Isa  21  cS; 
1  Ch  12  29  AV  (RV  "allegiance");  25  8;  26  12 
(RV  "office,"  in  "ward");  Neh  12  45;  13  30 
(RV  "charge").  Or  "ward"  may  mean  "guarded 
place,"  always  in  the  phrase  "put  in  ward."  RV 
has  kept  this  phrase  throughout  (Gen  40  3,  etc), 
changing  it  only  in  Ezk  19  9,  where  "cage"  better 
carries  out  the  figure  of  the  context. 

The  distinction  of  the  older  Eng.  between  "watch" 
and  "ward,"  as  applying  respectively  to  the  night  and 
to  the  day  seems  unknown  in  KV.  Of  Isa  21  8. 

The  affix  "-\vard,"  demoting  direction  and  still 
used  in  such  forms  as  "toward,"  "northward,"  etc, 
had  a  much  wider  range  in  Bib.  Eng.  So  "to  God- 
ward"  (Ex  18  19;  2  Cor  3  4;  1  Thess  1  S)  ;  "to 
thee-ward"  (1  S  19  4);  "to  us-ward"  (Ps  40  5; 
Eph  1  19;  2  Pet  3  9  AV);  "to  you-ward"  (2 
Cor  1  12;  13  3;  Eph  3  2;  2  Pet  3  9  KV);  and 
in  MX  37  9,  AV  "even  to  the  mercy  seatward" 
(RV  "toward  the  mercy-seat"). 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

WARES,  warz  (nnp¥T2  ,  tnakkdhdh,  "ID^2  ,  mckhcr, 
"O^P,  mimkdr,  n3?:3  ,  kin'ah, 


,  *izzabhon,  "*?$  ,  kell):  (1)  mdkkdhdh,  some- 
thing received  or  purchased  (Neh  10  31);  (2)  mckhcr, 
"price"  or  "pay,"  value,  merchandise  (Neh  13  10); 
(3)  'ininikdr,  a  "selling,"  the  thing  sold  (Neh  13  20); 
(t)  kin'ali,  a  "package,"  hence  wares  (Jer  10  17); 
(;'))  nid'aseh,  "transaction,"  activity,  property,  pos- 
session, work,  occupation,  thing  made,  deed,  business 
(Ezk  27  10.  IS);  (6)  'mob/ion,  "selling,"  trade,  rev- 
enue, mart,  letting  go  for  a  price  (Ezk  27  33); 
(7)  kell,  a  "prepared"  something,  as  an  implement, 
tool,  weapon,  utensil,  armor,  furniture,  sack,  vessel, 
hence  wares  (Jon  1  5)  .  In  most  cases  the  real  sense 
is  merchandise  (see  MERCHANDISE).  "That  which 
did  not  a  little  amuse  the  Merchandizes  [in  Vanity- 
Fair]  was,  that  these  Pilgrims  set  very  light  by  all 
their  Wares;  they  cared  not  so  much  as  to  look  upon 
them"  (Bunyan,  The  Pilgrim's  Progress). 

WILLIAM  EDWARD  RAFFETY 
WARFARE.     See  WAR,  WARFARE. 

WARP,  worp  (Tip,  sh'thi  [Lev  13  48-59]): 
The  long  threads  fixed  'into  the  loom  to  form  the 
basis  of  the  web,  and  into  which  the  woof  is  wrought 
from  the  shuttle.  The  warp  and  the  woof  lying  at 


right  angles  to  one  another  have  in  their  II eb  form 
(shrthl  w'^erehh)  given  to  modern  Jewish  speech 
a  secret  expression  to  designate  the  cross.  See 
WEAVING. 

WARS,   worz,    OF    JEHOVAH    (THE   LORD), 
BOOK  OF  THE.     See  BIBLE,  IV,  1,  (1),  (b). 

WASH,  wosh,  WASHING,  wosh'ing:  The  two 
usual  Heb  words  for  "wash"  are  frn  ,  rahnq ,  and 
023  ,  kdbhas,  the  former  being  normally  used  of 
persons  or  of  sacrificial  animals  (Gen  18  4,  etc, 
often  trd  "bathe";  Lev  15  5,  etc),  and  the  latter 
of  things  (Gen  49  11,  etc),  the  exceptions  to  this 
distinction  being  few  (for  rdhac,  1  K  22  3Sm;  for 
kabhas,  Ps  51  2.7;  Jer  2  22;  4  14).  Much  less 
common  are  JTH  ,  duah  (2  Ch  4  0;  Isa  4  4;  Ezk 
40  38)  and  " ,'JTS  ,  slidtaph  (1  K  22  38;  Job  14  19; 
Ezk  16  9),  tr'1'  "rinse"  in  Lev  6  28;  15  11.12. 
In  Neh  4  23  AV  has  "washing"  and  11 V  "water" 
for  mayitn,  but  the  text  is  hopelessly  obscure  (cf 
RVrn).  In  the  Apoc  ami  NT  the  range  of  terms  is 
wider.  Most  common  is  viirro),  niplo  (Mt  6  17, 
etc),  with  aponipto  in  Mt  27  24.  Of  the  other 
terms,  Xotfw,  loud  (Sus  vs  15.17;  Jn  13  10,  etc),  with 
apoloud  (Acts  22  10;  1  Cor  6  11)  and  the  noun 
loiilron  (Sir  34  256;  Eph  5  20;  Tit  3  5),  usually 
has  a  sacral  significance.  On  jScwrrffw,  Ixiptizo  (Sir 
34  2nd:  Mk  7  4;  Lk  11  38),  with  the  noun  baj>- 
(•ismoa  (Mk  7  4  [text?];  lie  9  10),  see  BAPTISM.  In 
Lk  5  2;  Rev  7  14;  22  14  RV  occurs  TrXiW,  pli'tnd, 
while  Jth  10  3  has  Trepi/cXyfw,  pcrikhho.  Virtually, 
as  far  as  meaning  is  concerned,  all  these  words  are 
interchangeable.  Of  the  figurative  uses  of  washing, 
the  most  common  and  obvious  is  that  of  cleansing 
from  sin  (Ps  51  2;  Isa  1  10,  etc),  but,  with  an 
entirely  different  figure,  "to  wash  in"  may  signify 
"to  enjoy  in  plenty"  (Gen  49  11;  Job  29  0;  the 
meaning  in  Cant  5  12  is  uncertain).  Washing  of 
the  hands,  in  token  of  innocence,  is  found  in  Dt  21 
0;  Mt  27  24. 

The    "washing    balls"    of    Sus   vcr    17    (ff^y^a, 
smtyma,  a  very  rare  word)  were  of  soap.     See  SOAP. 
BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

WASHING  OF  FEET:  The  OT  references  (Gen 
18  4;  19  2;  24  32;  43  24;  Jgs  19  21;  1  S  25 
41;  2  S  11  8;  Cant  5  3;  Ps  58  10)  show  that  the 
washing  of  the  feet  was  the  first  act  on  entering 
the  tent  or  house  after  a  journey.  The  Orientals 
wore  only  sandals,  and  this  washing  was  refreshing 
as  well  as  cleanly.  In  the  case  of  ordinary  people, 
the  host  furnished  the  water,  and  the  guests  washed 
their  own  feet,  but  in  the  richer  houses,  the  washing 
was  done  by  a  slave.  It  was  looked  upon  as  the 
lowliest  of  all  services  (1  S  25  41).  Jesus  pointedly 
contrasts  Simon's  neglect  of  even  giving  Him  water 
for  1 1  is  feet  with  the  woman's  washing  His  feet  with 
tears  and  wiping  them  with  her  hair  (Lk  7  44). 
On  the  last  evening  of  His  life,  Jesus  washed  the 
disciples'  feet  (Jn  13  1-10).  Their  pride,  height- 
ened by  the  anticipations  of  place  in  the  Messianic 
kingdom  whose  crisis  they  immediately  expected, 
prevented  their  doing  this  service  for  each  other. 
Possibly  the  same  pride  had  expressed  itself  on  this 
same  evening  in  a  controversy  about  places  at  table. 
Jesus,  conscious  of  His  Divine  dignity  and  against 
Peter's  protest,  performed  for  them  this  lowliest 
service.  His  act  of  humility  actually  cleansed  their 
hearts  of  selfish  ambition,  killed  their  pride,  and 
t  aught  them  the  lesson  of  love.  Sec  also  Expos  T, 
XI,  530  f. 

Was  it  meant  to  be  a  perpetual  ordinance?  Jn 
13  15,  with  its  "as"  and  the  present  tense  of  the  vb. 
"do,"  gives  it  a  priori  probability.  It  has  been  so 
understood  by  the  Mennonites  and  the  Dunkards. 
Bernard  of  Clairvaux  advocated  making  it  a  sacra- 


THK  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


incut.  The  Pope,  (lie  C/;ir,  :m<l  the  Pat  riarch  of 
Constantinople  wash  the  feet  of  12  poor  men  on 
Maundy  Thursday;  so  did  the  Eng.  kings  till  James- 
II,  and  it.  is  still  practised  in  the  royal  palaces  of 
Madrid,  Munich  and  Vienna.  Hut  the  objections 
to  such  an  interpretation  are  overwhelming:  (1) 
It  is  never  referred  to  in  the  Synoptic  (lospels,  t he- 
Acts  or  the  Epp.;  1  Tim  6  10  refers  only  to  lowly 
service  to  the  saints.  (2)  It  was  first  in  the  4th 
cent,  (cf  Ambrose  and  Augustine)  that  it  became 
the  custom  to  wash  the  feet  of  the  baptized  on 
Maundy  Thursday.  ('.])  Ritualizing  such  an  act  of 
love  absolutely  destroys  its  meaning.  (4)  No  large 
body  of  Christians  has  eve>r  received  it  as  a  sacra- 
ment or  an  ordinance.  F.  L.  ANDERSON 

ACCORDING  TO  THE  BKLIEF  AXD  PRACTICE  OF  THE 
Ciirite'H  OF  THE  BRETHREN 

Feet -washing  is  always  practised  in  connection 
with  the  Agape  and  Eucharist.  This  entire  service 
is  usually  called  "Love  Feast."  These 
1.  Practice  Love  Feasts  are  always  held  in  the 
evening  (in  conformity  to  the  time  of 
Jesus'  Last  Supper).  Preparatory  services  on  se>lf- 
examination  are  held  either  at  a  previous  se>rvie-e 
or  at  the  opening  of  the  Love  Feast.  Each  church 
or  congregation  is  supposed  to  he>ld  one  or  two  Love 
Fe'asts  annually.  Xo  specified  time  of  the  year  is 
set  for  these  services.  Before  the  supper  is  eniten 
all  the  communicants  wash  one  another's  feet;  the 
brethren  by  themselves,  and  likewise  the  sisters  by 
themselves. 

(\)  The  mode. — In  earlier  years  the  "Double 
Mode"  was  practised,  where  one  person  would 
wash  the  feet  of  several  persons  and  another  would 
follow  after  and  wipe;  them.  At  present  the  "Single 
Mode"  is  almost  universal,  wherein  e-ach  com- 
municant washes  and  wipes  the  feet  of  another. 
Hence  each  one  washes  and  wipes  the  feet  of  an- 
other, and  in  turn  has  this  same  service  performed 
to  himself. 

(2)  The  salutation. — Feet-washing  is  also  accom- 
panied with  the  "Holy  Kiss."  As  soon  as  one  has 
finished  washing  and  wiping  the  feet  of  another,  he 
takes  him  by  the  hand  and  greets  him  with  the 
"holy  kiss,"  usually  with  an  appropriate  beneelic- 
tion  as:  "God  bless  you,"  or  "May  the  Lord  bless 
us." 

There  are  three  texts  in  the  NT  referring  to  feet- 
washing  (Lk  7  3G-o();  Jn  13  1-17;  1  Tim  5  10). 
(1)  Jesus  washing  the  disciples'  feet 
2.  Scriptur-  (Jn  13  1-17).— "At  supper  time"  (Selv- 
al  Basis  for  vov  yevo^vov,  deipnou  genoinenou)  Jesus 
Feet-  arose,  laid  aside  His  garments  (i^dna, 

Washing        himdtia  — "outer    garments"),     girded 
Himself  with   a   towel,   poured   wate>r 
into  a  basin,  and  began  to  wash  and  wipe  the  feet 
of  the  disciples. 

(2)  Peter's  objection. — "Simon  Peter  ....  saith 
unto  him,   Lord,  dost  thou  wash  my  feet   [<r6  /J.QV 
nereis  TOUS  -rrodas,  su  tnou  nipteis  tons  podas]  ?  Jesus 
answered  ....  What  I  do  thou  know est  not  now; 
but   thou  shalt  understand  he>reafter.     Peter  saith 
unto  him,  Thou  shalt  never  wash  my  fe>et."     Where- 
upon Jesus  said:    "If  1  wash  thee  not,  thou  hast  no 
part  with  me." 

(3)  Jesus  explains. — Peter  now  goes  to  the  other 
extreme     and     desires     complete    washing.     Jesus 
answers  "He  that  is  bathed  [AeXoi>^<?i>os,  leloumenos, 
from  Aorfw,  loud,  "to  bathe  the  entire  body"]  need- 
eth   not  save  to  wash    [viirreiv,  uiptein — "to  wasli 
a  part  of  the  boely"]  his  feet."     Jesus  was  not  insti- 
tuting a  new  symbol  to  take  the  place  of  baptism, 
to   cleanse   the   e>ntire   person,    but    clearly   distin- 
guishes between  the  bathing  (loud)  of  the  entire  be>dy 
and   the   partial   cleansing   needed   after   the   bath 
(baptism  or  immersion). 


War,  Man  of 
Wasp 


ri(4)  The  camnimui.  "If  I  then,  the  Lord  and  the 
Teacher,  have  washed  your  feet,  ye  also  ought  to 
wash  one  another's  feet''  (ver  14,  «u  i-^as  o^ei'Xere 
d\\ri\ui>  vlwreiv  TOI)S  Trooa?,  L;,/,  fn/ini/s  o/ilirilrle  allelon 
niptein  tons  -podas),  "I  have  given  you  an  example 
[sign,  symbol,  u-n-6deijfj.a,  hi</>o</ci(//>m\,  that  ye  also 
should  do  as  1  have  done  to  you"  (ver  loj.  "  "If  ye 
know  these  things,  happy  [or  "blessed"  RV,  p.a.Kd- 
ptoi,  makdrioi]  are  ye  if  ye  do  them"  (tav  iroiiJTe 
avrd,  ca/i  polete  tu/td).  No  language  is  clearer,  and 
no  command  of  Jesus  is  stronger  t  han  t  his.  Further- 
more, no  symbol  is  accompanied  with  a  greater 
promise.  Note  also,  "If  I  wash  thee  not,  thou  hast 
no  part  with  me." 

_  (1)    Neoativebj. — (a)   It  cannot  he  explained  as  neces- 
sity or  custom,  i.e.  that  the  dust  must  he  washed  from 
the  feet  of  the  disciples  hefore  proceeding 
3    The  witl*    tni'    sl'PPcr.     It    was    so    cold    that 

-.Jf   „  Peter   had   to   warm   himself,   and    this   is 

meaning  sufficient  evidence!  that  they  wore  shoes 
of  the  instead  of  sandals  at  this  time.  Further- 

Svmbol  more,  Peter  did  not  understand  the  action 

J  of  Jesus,  hence  it  could  not  have  heen  cus- 

tomary. Most  of  all,  Jesus  was  not 
scrupulous  about  keeping  the  customs  or  practices  of  the 
Jews;  cf  Jesus' breaking  of  the  Jewish  Sahhath  (Mk  2 
23-26);  the  Jewish  fasts  (Mk  2  1S-22);  the  Jewish 
cleansings  (Mk  7  1-20).  (b)  It  was  not  customary  for 
the  host  to  wash  the  feet  of  the  guests.  Peter  objected 
and  Jesus  told  him  distinctly  that  he  could  not  under- 
stand at  the  time  (apri,  drti),  but  would  afterward 
Oxera  Taura,  meld  tauta).  The  symbol  had  a  deeper  mean- 
ing. 

(2)  Positively. — (a)  Feet-washing  symbolizes  humility 
and  service.  The  apostles  had  heen  quarreling  as  to 
who  would  he  greatest  in  t  he  kingdom  w  Inch  they  thought 
Jesus  was  about  to  set  up  (Lk  22  24-30).  Most  authori- 
ties agree  that  this  quarrel  took  place  before  the  supper 
Peter's  Question,  "Dost  thou  wash  my  feet""  shows 
clearly  that  his  objection  lay  principally  in  this,  that 
Jesus,  the  Lord  arid  Master,  should  perform  such  a 
humble  service.  But  Jesus  was  trying  all  the  time  to 
teach  His  disciples  that  true  greatness  in  His  kingdom  is 
humility  and  service.  "I  am  in  the  midst  of  you  as 
he  that  serveth"  (Lk  22  27;  cf  Mt  5  5;  23  11  12) 
Humility  and  service  are  fundamental  virtue's  in  the 
Christian  life.  To  wash  the  feet  of  another  symbolizes 
these  virtues  in  the  same  way  that  the  Eucharist  sym- 
bolizes other  Christian  virtues,  (b)  Cleansing:  Jesus 
clearly  distinguished  between  the  first  cleansing  which 
cleanses  the  whole  person,  and  the  washing  of  a  part  of 
the  body.  Baptism  is  the  new  birth,  which  means  a 
complete  cleansing.  But  after  baptism  we  still  commit 
sins,  and  need  the  partial  cleansing  as  symbolized  by  feet- 
washing.  Cf  Bernard  of  Clairvaux:  "Feet-washing  is  a 
cleansing  of  those  daily  offences  which  seem  inevitable 
for  those  who  walk  in  the  dust  of  the  world"  (,-w  pedes 
[abluti  sunt]  qui  sunt  animae  affectiones,  duin  in  hac  pul- 
vere  gradimur,  ex  toto  mundi  csse  non  possunt). 

Feet-washing  is  practised  by  the  Church  of  the 
Brethren  for  the  following  reasons:  (1)  Jesus  washed 

His  disciples'  feet  and  said,  "I  have 
4.  Practised  given  you  an  example,  that  ye  also 
by  the  should  do  as  I  have  done  to  you"  (Jn 

Church  1315).  (2)  Jesus  said,  "Ye  also  ought 

of  the  ["are  bound,"  opheilete]  to  wash  one 

Brethren  another's  feet"  (ver  14).  (3)  "If  1  wash 

thee  not,  thou  hast  no  part  with  me" 
(ver  8).  (4)  "If  ye  know  these  things,  blesse>d  are 
ye  if  ye  elo  them"  (ver  17).  (.5)  Feet-washing 
symbolizes  humility  and  service,  which  are  funda- 
mental virtues.  (6)  Feet-washing  symbe>lizes  cleans- 
ing from  the  sins  committed  after  baptism. 

LITERATURE. — For  the  Church  of  the  Brethren:  O.  F. 
Yoder,  God's  Means  of  Grace;  K.  II .  Miller,  The  Doctrine 
of  the  Brethren  Defended;  tracts  issued  by  the  Brethren 
Publishing  House,  Klgin,  111.  For  history  of  feet- 
washing,  see  ERE,  V;  A>«-  Srh-JIcrz  Knc  of  Ki'liaioux 
Knowledge,  IV,  4;  Smith  and  Cheetham,  Dirt,  of  Christian, 
Antiquities,  arts.  "Baptism,"  "Maundy  Thursday." 
DANIEL  WEBSTER  Knrrz 

WASHPOT,  wosh'pot  (prn  TV?,  sir  rahac, 
"vessel  for  washing") :  Only  Ps  60  8=108' 9,  "Moab 
is  my  washpot";  i.e.  "Moab  is  my  chattel,  to  be 
treated  contemptuously,"  as  the  vessel  in  which  the 
conqueror's  feet  are  washed. 

WASP,  wosp.     Sec  HDRNET. 


Watch 
Way 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3074 


WATCH,  woeh  (rrV£fS,  'axJinmrah, 
'(ixlimfirclh;  <}>vA.aKT|,  phulaM)  :  A  division  of  the  night  . 
The  night  was  originally  divided  into  three  watches 
(.Jgs  7  19),  but  later  into  four,  as  we  find  in  the  NT 
(Mt  14  25;  Mk  6  4S).  We  do  not  know  the  limits 
of  the  watches  in  the  first  division,  hut  the  middle 
watch  probably  began  two  hours  before  midnight 
and  ended  two  hours  after.  The  fourfold  division 
was  according  to  the  Horn  system,  each  of  which 
\vas  a  fourth  part  of  the  night.  See  TIME. 

"Watch"  is  also  the  guard  placed  on  watch 
(I'ETp'C,  wishmur,  Neh  4  9;  KovarwSia,  koustodia, 
from  Lai  custodia,  Mt  27  (KM;  28  11).  It  some- 
times refers  to  the  act  of  watching,  as  in  2  Is.  11  0.7 
(n'ySO'Q  ,  miahmeretti)',  Lk  2  S  (/>tnd<ikc). 

"Watch"  is  also  used  figuratively,  as  in  Ps  141  3 
for  rcNtrainl:  "Set  a  watch,  ()  .Jeh,  before  my  mouth 

-JTJTS,  shomrah).     See  WARD.  II.  POUTER 


WATCHER,  woch'er  (Aram.  T>r  ,  '7r,  "wakeful 
one"):  In  Nebuchadnezzar's  dream  (Did  4  13.17. 
23  [MT  10.14.20])  a  messenger  who  with  "a  holy 
one"  descended  from  heaven,  they  having  joint 
authority  to  issue  decrees.  In  the  apocryphal  lit- 
erature "the  doctrine  of  the  "watchers"  is  much 
elaborated.  In  Jub  they_are  regarded  as  angels 
sent  to  instruct  mankind'  in  righteousness.  In  En 
they  sometimes  appear  as  archangels  and  at  other 
times  as  fallen  angels.  In  the  latter  condition  only 
we  find  them  in  the  Book  of  Adam  and  Eve.  The 
place  of  descent  was  according  to  En  6  0  the  sum- 
mit of  Mt,  Hermon.  W.  M.  CHRISTIE 

WATCHMAN,  woch'man^  (~Z"S  ,  fdphch,  "IttTT  , 
shomcr,  HElp?  ,  W'sappch,  "U^  ,  ?/oc<V)  :  1'sed  to  desig- 
nate a  sentinel  on  the  city  walls  (2  S  18  25;  2  K 
9  IS;  Ps  127  1;  Lsa  62  (5)  or  on  the  hilltops  (Jer 
31  (>).  Cant  33;  57  introduces  another  class, 
"the  watchmen  that  go  about  the  city,"  and  thus, 
it  would  seem,  points  to  some  system  of  municipal 
police.  The  distinction  in  meaning  between  the 
various  words  is  clear,  ^oplich  having  the  idea  of 
"out  looker"  and  ?/ofcr  that  of  "careful  watcher" 
(being  applied  even  to  besiegers  from  outside:  Jer 
4  It),  "watchers"),  while  xtulmcr  also  embraces  tin- 
idea  of  "defending"  or  "guarding."  In  Isa  21  0 
mevii>i)<'h  is  to  be  taken  generally  m  the  sense  of 
"watch."  In  Sir  37  14  <r/eo?r6s,  sfeop<5s,  means  simply 
-looker."  W.  M.  CHRISTIE 

WATCH-TOWER,  woch'tou-er  ("SEE  ,  mi^pch 
[Isa  21  8;  2  Ch  20  24];  'H?  ,  bahint  [Isa  32  14 
11V]):  In  Isa  2  10  the  words  x-'khiyulh  ha-hemdah 
have  puzzled  the  translators.  AY  gives  "pleasant 
pictures,"  RV  "pleasant  imagery,"  while  R\  m  has 
"pleasant  watchtowers."  C.uthe  in  Kautzsch's  Bible 
translates  Scliaustucke,  which  pract  ically  agrees  with 
RV.  See  MIZPEII;  TOWER. 

WATER,   wo'ter  (D'l'Q  ,  mayim;    vScop,  hudor): 

(1)  The  (Jr  philosophers  believed  water  to  be  the 
original  substance  and  that  all  things  were  made 
from  it.     The  Koran  states,  "From  water  we  have 
made    all    things."      In    the   story    of   the   creation 
(On  1  2)  water  plays  an  elemental  part, 

(2)  Because  of  the  scarcity  of  water  in  Pal  it  is 
esp.   appreciated  by  the  people  there.     They  love 
to  go  and  sit  by  a  stream  of  running  water.     Men 
long  for  a  taste  of  the  water  of  their  native  village 
(1  Ch  11  17).     A  town  or  village  is  known  through- 
out the  country  for  the  quality  of  its  water,  which  is 
described    by    many    adjectives,    such    as    "light, 
"heavy,"  etc. 

(3)  The  rainfall  is  the  only  source  of  supply  of 
water  for  Pal.     The  moisture  is  carried  up  from  tin 


sea  in  clouds  and  falls  on  the  hills  as  rain  or  snow. 
This  supplies  the  springs  and  fountains.  The  rivers 
in;  mostly  small  and  have  little  or  no  water  in 
summer.  For  the  most  part  springs  supply  the; 
villages,  but  in  case  this  is  not  sufficient,  cisterns 
are  used.  Most  of  the  rain  falls  on  the  western 
slopes  of  the  mountains,  and  most  of  the  springs 
are  found  there.  The  limestone  in  many  places 
does  not  hold  the  water,  so  wells  are  not  very  com- 
mon, though  there  are  many  references  to  them  in 
the  Bible. 

(4)  Cisterns  arc  usually  on  the  surface  of  the  ground 
and  vary  greatly  in  size.      Jerus  has  always  had  to  depend 
for  the  most  part  on  water  stored  in  t  his  way.  and  carried 
to  the  city  in  aqueducts.      A  large  number  of  cisterns  have 
been  found  and  partially  explored  under  the  temple-area 
itself       The  water  stored  in  the  cisterns  is  surface  water, 
and  is  a  great  menace  to  the  health  of  the  people.      During 
the  long,  dry  summer  the  water  gets  less  and  less,  and 
becomes  so  stagnant  and  filthy  that  it  is  not  fit  to  drink. 
In  a  few  instances  the  cisterns  or  pools  are  sufficiently 
large  to  supply  water  for  limited  irrigation.     See  CISTERN. 

(5)  During  the  summer  when  there  is  no  rain, 
vegetation   is  greatly  helped   by  the  heavy   dews. 
A  considerable  amount  of  irrigation  is  carried  on 
in   the   country   where   there  is  sufficient  water  in 
the  fountains  and  springs  for  the  purpose.     There 
was  doubtless  much  more  of  it  in  the  Rom  period. 
Most   of  the  fruit  trees  require  water  during  the 
summer. 

(CO  Many  particular  wells  or  pools  are  mentioned 
in  the  Bible,  as:  Beersheba  (den  21  19),  Isaac's 
well  (C.en  24  11),  Jacob's  well  (.In  4  0),  Pool  of 
Siloam  ('.In  9  7),  "waters  of  Nephtoah"  (Josh  15  9). 

(7)  Washing  with  water  held  a  considerable  place 
in  the  Jewish  temple-ceremony  (Lev  11  32;  16  4; 
17  15;  22  0;  Nu  19  7;  Ex  30  IS;  40  7).  Sac- 
rifices were  washed  (Ex  29  4;  Lev  1  9;  6  2S; 

14  5). 

(S)  The  lack  of  water  caused  great,  suffering  (Ex 

15  22;    Dt  8  15;   2  K  3  9;    Ps  63  1;    Prov  9  17; 
Ezk  411;     Lain  5  4).   See   also    FOUNTAIN;     PIT; 
POOL;  Si'iUNci;  WELL.  ALFRED  II.  JOY 

WATER  OF  BITTERNESS  (OR  OF  JEAL- 
OUSY). See  . \DVLTERY,  (2). 

WATER  OF  SEPARATION  (OR  OF  UNCLEAN- 
NESS.).  See  DEFILEMENT;  SEPARATION:  LNCLEAN- 

NESS. 

WATERCOURSE,  wo'ter-kdrs:  (1)  p^ES , 
Tiplrik  (Kzk  6  3;  31  12;  32  (5;  34  13;  35  S;  36 

4.(ij;  AV  "river,"  elsewhere  "stream,"  "channel,"  or 
"brook."  (2)  .VxE,  iM-lcgh  (Prov  21  1).  "The 
king's  heart  is  in  the  hand  of  Jeh  as  the  water- 
courses," AV  "rivers,"  elsewhere  "streams"  or 
"rivers."  (3)  blP ,  yabhal,  D"1^  ^^.,  yibh'lnj 
mnyim,  "watercourses"  (EV)  (Isa  44  4);  in  Isa  30 
25,  EV  Iras  "streams  of  water";  cf  ^^  ,  yubhid, 
"rivers"  (Jer  17  8);  '21"1 ,  yubhal,  "Jubal"  (C.en 

4  21);  b3^.S  ,'«?;/<«/,  "the  river  1'lai"  (Did  8  2.3.0). 

(4)  nbyi/1,   f-'dlah,   "channel,"   AV   "watercourse" 
(Job  38' 25);     elsewhere    "conduit,"    "the    conduit 
of  the  upper  pool"   (2   K  18  17;    Isa  7  3;    36  2). 

(5)  "OSS,  £innor,  "watercourse,"  AV  "gutter"  (2  S 

5  S).     See  BROOK;  RIVER;  STREAM;  WATERFALL. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

WATERFALL,  wo'ter-fol  ("V13?  ,  <;innor;  only  in 
ARV  [Ps  42  7]): 

"Deep  calleth  unto  deep  at  the 

noise  of  thy  waterfalls; 
All  thy  waves  and  thy  billows 
are  gone  over  me." 

AV  and  ERA'  have  "waterspouts,"  ERVm  "cata- 
racts." The  etvmology  of  the  word  is  uncertain. 


A   VENDOU   OF  WATEK 


307.') 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


It  occurs  also  in  2  S  5  S,  tr'1  "watercourse,"   AV 
':?,   yin froth,    "spouts"    (Zee  4 


"gutter.1 

12). 


"dragons,"     ERVm     "se>a-monslers"     or     "water- 
spouts." 

"Praise  Jeh  from  the  earth. 
Ye  sea-monsters,  and  all  deeps." 


WATERPOT,  vvo'ter-pot    (iSpta,  hudria;  cf  fi8»P,      Soo  DRAGON;  SEA-MONSTER;  WATKKKAU, 


In'ulor,    "water"):     An    earthen    vessel,    or   jar,    for 
carrying  or  holding  water  (in  1AX  for  "3,  kadh, 


Eastern  Watcrpots. 

"jar,"  or  "pitcher").  It  was  usually  carried^  by 
women  upon  the  head,  or  upon  the  shoulder  (Jn  4  28). 

Pots  of  larger  size>,  holding  eighteen  or  twenty  gal- 
lons apiece,  were  used  by  the  Jews  for  purposes  of 
ceremonial  purification  (Jn  2  G). 

WATERS,  weVterx  (E"!"?  ,  mayim,  pi.  of  *^12  ,  may, 
"water";  in  the  NT  vSwp,  Mdor,  "water";  KivSvvois 
iroTafiwv,  ki)i<lunt>iH  [tulntnuii  [2  Cor  11  2(')J,  A\  "perils 
of  waters,"  is  in  liV  "perils  of  rivers"):  In  the_NT 
there  is  frequent  reference  to  the  water  of  baptism. 
Pilate  washes  his  hands  with  water  to  signify  his 
guiltlessness.  Jesus  tells  the  Sam  woman  of  the 
living  water.  The  Lamb  shall  guide  the  redeemed 
unto  fountains  of  waters  of  life. 

The  uses  of  iiutyim  are  well  classified  in  BDB, 
esp.  the  figurative  references,  as  follows:  a  symbol 
of  distress,  "when  thou  passes!  through  the  waters" 
(Isa  43  2);  of  force,  "like  the  breach  of  waters" 
(2  S  5  20);  of  that  which  is  overwhelming,  "a  tem- 
pest of  mighty  waters  overflowing"  (Isa  28  2);  of 
fear,  "The  hearts  of  the  people  ....  became  as 
water"  (Josh  7  5>;  of  transit oriness,  "Thou  shalt 
remember  it  MS  waters  that  are  passed  away"  (Job 
11  16);  of  refreshment,  "'as  streams  of  water  in  a 
dry  place"  (Isa  32  2);  of  peace,  "He  leadeth  me 
beside  still  waters"  (Ps  23  2);  of  legitimate  pleas- 
ures, "waters  out  of  thine  own  cistern"  (Prov  5 
]."));  of  illegitimate  pleasures,  "Stolen  waters  are 
sweet"  (Prov  9  17);  of  that  which  is  poured  out 
abundantly,  blood  (Ps  79  3),  wrath  (Hos  5  10), 
justice  (Am  5  24),  groanings  (Job  3  24). 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

WATERS  OF  MEROM.  See  MKROM,  WATERS 
OF. 

WATERS  OF  STRIFE,  stiif.     See  MKRIHAH. 

WATERSPOUT,  wo'ter-spout:    (1)  "113$,  ginnor 
(Ps  42  7),  ARV  "waterfalls,"  AV  and  ERV  "watei 
spouts,"     ERVin     "cataracts."      (2)    "pan ,    tannl 
(Ps  148  7),   ARV    "sea-monsters,"    AV 


ALFRED   EL 
WAVE   OFFERING,  wav  of'er-ing.      Se 

KICK    IX  THF   ()T. 

WAW,   waw    (T):     The   sixth    letter    of 
alphabet;     transliterated    in    this    Encyclo 
(or  (')•      It-  came  also  to  be  used  for  the  n 
For  name,  etc,  see  ALIMIAHKT. 


v   DAY 
SACHI- 


nly  in  a  simile 
1  4).     But 


•ater- 
in 
and   ERV 


WAX,  waks:  . 

(1)  Noun    (3"~  ,  ildnnijln:   I'sed 

of  melting  (Ps  22  14;  68  2;  97  5;   Mic 
see  WRITING. 

(2)  A  now  archaic  vb.,  me>aning  "to  ,, 

freely  in  EY  as  a  tr  of  various  terms  in  dr  and  Heb. 
The>' past  participle  in  AY  and  ERY  is  "waxen," 
exce>pt  in  Cen  18  12.  The're;  (and  throughout  in 
ARV)  tin:  form  is  "waxed." 

WAY,  wil  (rn'S  ,  'onih.  Sn~$  ,  'orlja,  "~lX  ,  Yrrf, 
ST3,  bo,  tp~  ,  dcrt-kh,  TC"1'"  ,  JiCd'ikhak,  ~^^')2  , 
malyalah,  IPr:  ,  nullnbh;  686s,  lux/ox,  v&pobos,  pdro- 
Jos,irop€£a,  por('La,Tf>6iros,  lro[>ox;  "highway,  «  '2C  i  j 
inesill(ih  x-ixC'G  ,  maslul;  6ie£6Soi  rciv  oSwv,  dicxodoi 
ton  htxloti):  The;  list  just  e-ile'd  contains  only  a  por- 
tion of  the  words  trd  "way"  or  "highway"  jn  AV. 
Most  etf  the>m  have  the  primary  meaning  of  "road." 
"customary  path."  "course'  of  travel"  (Cen  3  24; 
Ex  23  21);"  Xu  20  17,  etc).  By  a  very  easy  and 
natural  figure  "way"  is  applied  to  the  course'  of 
human  e-ondue-t,  the  manner  of  life  which  one  lives 
(Ex  18  20;  32  8;  Nu  22  32;  1  S  8  3;  1  K  13 
33,  etc;  Acts  14  16;  1  Cor  4  17;  Jas  5  20).  "The 
way  of  an  eagle;  ....  of  a  serpent  ....  of  a 
ship  ....  and  of  a  man"  (Prov  30  19)  agree  in 
that  they  leave  no  trace'  behinel  the'in  (e-f  ^  isel  5 
10.11).  In  some  e-ases  the  language  may  be  such 
as  to  leave  it  indeterminate  whe-lher  the  wav  or 
course  of  conduct  is  good  or  bad  (Dt  28  29;  1  S  18 
14;  2  Ch  27  7;  Job  13  lf>;  Prov  36;  66;  Jas 

1  8),  though  in  most  case-s  the  Bible  writers  attach 
to  every  act  an  ethical  evaluation.     Sometimes  this 
way  of  condue-t  is  e>f  puivly  human  choie-e,  withemt 
reference;  to  either  God  or  good  (Jgs  2  19;     Je>b  22 
15-    34  21;    Ps  119  9;    Prov  12  ir>;    16  2).     Such 
a  course  is  evil  (2  Ch  7  14;   Ps  1  6;  119  101.104. 
128;   Prov  1  19,  etc)  and  will  obtain  such  punish- 
ment as  its  lack  of  merit  warrants  (1  K  8  32.39; 

2  Ch  6  23;    Job  30  12;    34  11;    Jer  17  10;    Ezk 
739;     He>s  12  2).     At  the  opposite;  extreme  from 
this  is  the  good  way  (Ps  1  6;    Prov  8  20;    12  28; 
15  10;    Isa  26  7),  which  is  that  course  of  conduct 
enjoined  by   Ge>d   and   exe-mplified   in   His   pcrfee-t 
conduct    (den  6  12;   18  19;   Dt  8  6;   26  17;    1  K 
2  3;   Job  23  11;   Ps  51  13,  etc).     These  two  ways 
briefly  but  graphically  elescribe'd  by  the  Lord  (Mt  7 
13.14";  e'f  Lk  13  24)  became  the  subjee-t  of  extended 
catechetical  instruct  iem  in  the  e'arly  church.     Se>e-  the 
Ep.  e>f  Barnabas,  xviii,  anel  the  Did.,  i.l.     Frequently 
the  way  in  this  metaphorical  sense;  is  characterized 
by  that  quality  which  is  its  outstanding  feature,  e.g. 
mention   is  maele  of  the  way  of  life   (Prov  15  24; 
Jer  21  8;  Acts  2  28);  of  truth  (Ps  119  30;  2  Pet 
2  2);    of  peace  (Isa  59  8;    Lk  1  79;    Rom  3  17); 
e>f  just  ice-  (Prov  17  23;  Did  4  37);  of  righteousness 
(Mt  21  32;  2  Pet  2  21);  e)f  salvation  (Acts  16  17); 
of  lying  (Ps  119  29),  and  of  eleath  (Jer  21  8).     Fre- 
que'iitlv  dod's  purpose  or  His  customary  ae-tion  is 
described  as  His  way  (Ps  103  7;   Isa  26  8;   Mt  22 
16;   Acts  13  10).     Since  all  of  God's  plans  and  pur- 


Way,  Covered 
Weaving 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3076 


posos  lend  1<«\v;inl  man's  salvation,  His  provisions 
to  this  end  are  frequently  spoken  of  as  His  Way,  and 
inasmuch  as  all  of  the  Divine  plans  center  in  Christ 
He  is  preeminently  the  Way  (Jn  14  6).  Out  of  this 
fact  grew  the  title,  "The  Way,"  one  of  the  earliest 
names  applied  to  Christianity  (Acts  9  2;  18  25.26; 
19  9.23;  22  4;  24  22). 

The  word  highway  is  used  to  denote  a  prominent 
road,  such  a  one  for  example  as  was  anciently  main- 
tained for  royal  travel  and  by  r:>yal  authority.  It 
is  always  used  in  the  literal  sense  except  in  Prov  15 
19;  16  17,  where  it  is  a  course  of  conduct.  See  also 
PATH,  PATHWAY.  W.  C.  Moiwo 

WAY,  COVERED.     Sec  COVERED  WAY. 

WAY,  LITTLE  (rH33  ,  kiMirah,  "length,"  "a 
measure"):  A  technical  measure  of  distance  in  the 
Hel>;  but  it  must  be  considered  undefined  (('.en  35 
16;  48  7  AV,  ERV  "some  way,"  ARV  "some  dis- 
tance"; 2  K  5  19,  ERV  "some  way,"  ARVin 
"some  distance").  The  Heb  term  kibhrdh  is  also 
found  in  Phoen  inscriptions  as  a  measure  of  dis- 
tance. 

WAYFARING,  wa'far-ing,  MAN:  The  tr  in  Jgs 
19  17;  2  S  12  1;  ,Jer  9  2;  14  S  of  HPS?  ,  'drc"h, 
the  participle  of  'amh,  "to  journey."  In  Isa  33  S 
of  *dl>lit~r  'nnili,  "one  passing  on  a  path,"  and  in  Isa 
35  X  of  holekh  dcrckli,  "one  walking  on  a  road." 
"Traveler"  is  the  meaning  in  all  cases. 


WAYMARK,  wa'mark  ("1^  ,  flyun):  In  Jer 
31  21,  "Set  thee  up  waymarks,"  explained  by  the 
parallel,  "Make  thee  guide-posts"  (AV  "Make  thee 
high  heaps").  A  sign  or  guiding  mark  on  the  high- 
way. 

WEALTH,  with,  WEALTHY,  wel'thi  ("Jin,  hon, 
^"?n,  hai/il,  C^CZ'T  ,  iL'khdKlin;  exnropia,  cuporia,  "to 
]>ossess  riches,"  "to  be  in  a  position  of  ease"  [Jer 
49  311):  The  possession  of  wealth  is  not  regarded 
as  sinful,  but,  on  the  contrary,  was  looked  upon  as  a 
sign  of  the  blessing  of  God  (Eccl  6  19;  6  2).  The 
doctrine  of  "blessed  arc  the  poor,  and  cursed  are  the 
rich"  finds  no  countenance  in  the  Scriptures,  for  Lk 
6  20.24  refers  to  concrete  conditions  (disciples  and 
persecutors;  note  the  "ye").  God  is  the  maker  of 
rich  and  poor  alike  (Prov  22  2).  But  while  it  is 
not  sinful  to  be  rich  it  is  very  dangerous,  and  cer- 
tainly perilous  to  one's  salvation  (Mt  19  23).  Of 
this  fact  the  rich  young  ruler  is  a  striking  example; 
(Lk  18  22.23).  It  is  because  of  the  danger  of  losing 
the  soul  through  the  possession  of  wealth  that  so 
many  exhortations  are  found  in  the  Scriptures 
aimed  esp.  at  those  who  have  an  abundance  of  this 
world's  goods  (I  Tim  6  17;  Jas  1  10.11;  5  l,ctc). 
Certain  parables  are  esp.  worthy  of  note  in  this 
same  connection,  e.g.  the  Rich  Fool  (Lk  12  16-21), 
the  Rich  Man  and  Lazarus  —  if  such  can  be  called  a 
parable—  (Lk  16  19-31).  That  it  is  not  impossible 
for  men  of  wealth  to  be  saved,  however,  is  apparent 
from  the  narratives,  in  the  Gospels,  of  such  rich  men 
as  Nicodemus,  and  Joseph  of  Arimathaea  (Jn  19 
3S.39;  Mt  27  57-60),  and  Zacchaeus  (Lk  19  1-10). 
It  may  fairly  be  inferred  from  the  Gospel  records 
that  James  and  John,  who  were  disciples  of  Our 
Lord,  were  men  of  considerable  means  (Mk  1  19. 
20;  Jn  19  27). 

Wealth  may  be  the  result  of  industry  (Prov  10 
4),  or  the  result  of  the  special  blessing  of  God  (2  Ch 
1  11.12).  We  are  warned  to  be  careful  lest  at  any 
time  we  should  say  "My  power  and  the  might  of 
my  hand  hath  gotten  me  this  wealth.  But  thou 
shalt  remember  Jeh  thy  God,  for  it  is  he  that  giveth 
thee  power  to  get  wealth"  (Dt  8  17.  IS). 


Those  possessing  wealth  are  liable  to  certain  kinds  of 
sins  against  which  they  are  frequently  warned,  e.g.,  high- 
mindedness  (1  Tim  6  1<);  oppression  of  the  poor  (Jas  2 
(i);  selfishness  (Lk  12  and  16);  dishonesty  (Lk  19  1-10); 
self-conceit  (Prov  28  11);  self-trust  (Prov  18  11). 

It  is  of  interest  to  note  that  in  the  five  places  in  the  NT 
in  which  the  word  "lucre"  —  as  applying  to  wealth  —  is 
used,  it  is  prefaced  by  the  word  "filthy"  (1  Tim  3  -i 
[AV].8;  Tit  1  7.11;  1  Pet  5  2)  ,  and  that  In  four  of  these 
tive  places  it  refers  to  the  income  of  ministers  of  the  gospel, 
as  though  they  were  particularly  susceptible  of  being  led 
away  by  the  influences  and  power  of  money,  and  so  needed 
special  warning. 

The  Scriptures  are  not  without  instruction  as 
to  how  we  may  use  our  wealth  wisely  and  as  well- 
pleasing  to  God.  The  parable  of  the  Unjust  Steward 
(Lk  16)  exhorts  us  to  "make  ....  friends  by  means 
of  the  mammon  of  unrighteousness,"  by  which  is 
meant  that  we  should  use  the  wealth  which  God  has 
committed  to  us  as  stewards  in  order  that  we  may 
win  friends  (souls)  with  it  for  Him  and  His  kingdom, 
just  as  the  unfaithful  steward  used  the  goods  with 
which  his  master  had  intrusted  him  to  make  friends 
for  himself.  The  parable  of  Dives  and  Lazarus 
gives  us  t  he  sad  picture  of  a  selfish  rich  man  who  had 
abused  his  trust,  who  had  failed  to  make  friends 
with  his  money,  and  who,  in  the  other  world,  would 
have  given  anything  just  for  such  a  friend  (Lk  16 
19-31).  See  also  RICHES.  WILLIAM  EVANS 

WEAN,  wen:  "To  wean"  in  EV  is  always  the  tr 
of  b'ES  ,  (/dinal,  but  gamal  has  a  much  wider  force 
than  merely  "to  wean,"  signifying  "to  deal  fully 
with,"  as  in  Ps  13  6,  etc.  Hence,  as  applied  to  a 
child,  (jdwnl  covers  the  whole  period  of  nursing  and 
care  until  the  weaning  is  complete  (1  K  11  20). 
This  period  in  ancient  Israel  extended  to  about  3 
years,  and  when  it  was  finished  the  child  was  mature 
enough  to  be  intrusted  to  strangers  (1  S  1  24). 
And,  as  the  completion  of  the  period  marked  the 
end  of  the  most  critical  stage  of  the  child's  life,  it 
was  celebrated  with  a  feast  (Gen  21  8),  a  custom 
still  observed  in  the  Orient.  The  weaned  child,  no 
longer  fretting  for  the  breast  and  satisfied  with  its 
mother's  affection,  is  used  in  Ps  131  2  as  a  figure 
for  Israel's  contentment  with  God's  care,  despite 
the  smallness  of  earthly  possessions.  In  Isa  28  9 
there  is  an  ironical  question,  'Is  God  to  teach  you 
knowledge  as  if  you  were  children?  You  should 
have  learned  His  will  long  ago!' 

BriiTON  SCOTT  E  ASTON 

WEAPONS,  wep'unz.     See  AH.MOH. 


WEASEL,  weYI  ("^H  ,  JwJctlh;  cf  Arab, 
khulil,  "mole-rat"):  (1)  Hdledh  is  found  only  in 
Lev  11  29,  where  it  stands  first  in  the  list  of  eight 
unclean  "creeping  things  that  creep  upon  the  earth." 
AV  and  RV  agree  in  rendering  Iwlcdh  by  "weasel," 
and  LXX  has  ya^rj,  gale,  "weasel"  or  "marten." 
According  to  Gesenius,  the  Vulg,  Tg  and  Talm 
support  the  same  rendering.  In  spite  of  this  array 
of  aut  horit  ies,  it  is  worth  while  to  consider  the  claims 
of  the  mole-rat,  tipulax  ty/thlux,  Arab,  khnld.  This 
is  a  very  common  rodent,  similar  in  appearance  and 
habits  to  the  mole,  which  docs  not  exist  in  Pal.  The 
fact  that  it  burrows  may  be  considered  against  it, 
in  view  of  the  words,  "t  hat  creepeth  upon  the  earth." 
The  term  "creeping  thing"  is,  however,  very  appli- 
cable to  it,  and  the  objection  seems  like  a  quibble, 
esp.  in  view  of  the  fact  that  there  is  no  category  of 
subterranean  animals.  See  MOLE.  (2)  The  weasel, 
Mustcla  vulyaris,  has  a  wide  range  in  Asia,  Europe, 
and  North  America.  It  is  from  8  to  10  in.  long, 
including  the  short  tail.  It  is  brown  above  and 
white  below.  In  the  northern  part  of  its  range,  its 
whole  fur,  except  the  tail,  is  white  in  winter.  It  is 
active  and  fearless,  and  preys  upon  all  sorts  of  small 
mammals,  birds  and  insects.  See  LI/AKD. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 


3077 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Way,  Covered 
Weaving 


WEATHER,  weth'er  pHT ,  zdhabh  [Jol)  37  22], 
DT1 ,  ydm  [Prov  25  20],  trd  "day";  tvSCa,  cudla, 
"clour  sky,"  \ti\i<av,  cheimon,  "tempest"):  In  the 
Kust  it  is  not  customary  to  talk  of  the  weather  a.1 
in  the  West.  Then;  .seems  to  he  no  word  in  the  Heh 
corresponding  to  "weather."  In  Job  37  22  AV 
translates  "Fair  weather  comes  out  of  the  north," 
hut  RV  translates  more  literally,  "Out  of  the  north 
cornel  h  golden  splendor."  "As  one  that  taketh  off 
a  garment  in  cold  weather  [or  lit.  "on  a  cold  day"], 
....  so  is  he  that  singe th  songs  to  a  heavy  heart" 
(Prov  25  20). 

Jesus  rebukes  the  Pharisees  for  their  lack  of 
spiritual  foresight  when  they  took  such  interest  in 
natural  foresight.  He  said,  "When  it  is  evening,  ye 
say,  It  will  be  fair  weather:  for  the  heaven  is  red. 
And  in  the  morning,  It  will  be  foul  weather  to-day : 
for  the  heaven  is  red  and  lowering"  (Mt  16  2.3). 
The,  general  conditions  of  the  weather  in  the  differ- 
ent seasons  are  less  variable  in  Pal  than  in  colder 
countries,  but  the  precise  weather  for  a  given  day 
is  very  hard  to  predict  on  account  of  the  proximity 
of  the  mountains,  the  desert  and  the  sea. 

ALFRED  H.  JOY 

WEAVING,  we'ving:  Although  weaving  was  one 
of  the  most  important  and  best  developed  of  the 
crafts  of  Bible  times,  yet  we  have  but  few  Bib. 
references  to  enlighten  us  as  to  the  processes  used 
in  those  early  days.  A  knowledge  of  the  technique 
of  weaving  is  necessary,  however,  if  we  are  to  under- 
stand some  of  the  Bib.  incidents.  The  principle  of 
weaving  in  all  ages  is  illustrated  by  the  process  of 
darning.  The  hole  to  be  darned  is  laid  over  with 
parallel  threads  which  correspond  to  the  "warp" 
nr.lp.  sliet/n)  of  a  woven  fabric.  Then,  by  means 
of  a  darning  needle  which  takes  the  place  of  the 
shuttle  in  the  loom,  other  threads  are  interlaced 
back  and  forth  at  right  angles  to  the  first  set  of 
strands.  This  second  set  corresponds  to  the  woof 
Q"}",  *erebh)  or  weft  of  woven  cloth.  The  result 
is  a  web  of  threads  across  the  hole.  If  the  warp 
threads,  instead  of  being  attached  to  the  edges  of 
a  fabric,  are  fastened  to  two  beams  (see  Fig.  1) 


FIG.   1. 

which  can  be  stretched  either  on  a  frame  or  on  the 
ground,  and  the  woof  is  interlaced  exactly  as  in 
darning,  the  result  will  be  a  web  of  cloth.  The 
process  is  then  called  weaving  CHS,  'aragfi),  and 
the  apparatus  a  loom.  The  most  up-to-date  loom 
(if  our  modern  mills  differs  from  the  above  only  in 
the  devices  for  accelerating  the  process.  The  first 
of  these  improvements  dates  back  some  5,000  years 
to  the  early  FJgyptians,  who  discovered  what  is 
technically  known  as  shedding,  i.e.  dividing  the 
warp  into  two  sets  of  threads,  every  other  thread 
being  lifted  so  that  the  woof  can  run  between,  as  is 
shown  in  the  diagram  of  the  Arab.  loom. 

Figs.    1   and  2  show  the  working  of  the  looms  still 
commonly  used  among  the  Bedouins.     For  the  sake  of 


.._.*..n  v/in.»  <IHIIU  uiiiuuus  it  n:  Miown  in  ino  warp  in 
reality  the  eight  strands  arc  made  by  passing  one  continu- 
ous thread  hack  and  forth  between  the  two  poles  (n)  and 
(l>),  held  apart  by  tile  stakes  (/,)  driven  into  the  ground 
In  Fig.  1  thi!  even  strands  are,  shown  running  through 
loops  of  string  attached  to  the  rod  (/-),  and  thence  under 
the  beam  (<l)  to  the  pole;  (I,).  J{\  placing  the  ends  of  (r.) 
on  stones  (see  Fig.  3;.  or  by  suspending  (c)  on  loops,  the 


FIG.  2. 

even  threads  are  raised  above  the  odd,  thus  forming  a 
shed  through  which  the  weft  can  be  passed.  The  sepa- 
rating of  odds  and  evens  is  assisted  by  a  flat  hoard  (A  i  of 
wedge-shaped  cross-section,  which  is  turned  at  right 
angles  to  the  odds.  After  the  shuttle  has  been  passed 
across,  this  same  stick  is  used  to  beat  up  the  weft. 

In  Fig.  2  the  second  position  of  the  threads  is  shown: 
(c)  is  removed  from  the  stones  or  loops,  and  allowed  to 
lie  loosely  on  the  warp;  (d)  is  pulled  forward  toward  the 
weaver  and  raised  on  the  stones  in  the  position  previously 
occupied  by  (c).  The  flat  spreader  is  passed  through 
the  new  shed  in  which  the  odds  are  now  above  and  the 
evens  below.  The  weft  is  run  through  and  is  beaten 
into  place  with  the  thin  edge  of  (//).  The  shuttle  (s) 
commonly  used  is  a  straight  tree  branch  on  which  the 
thread  is  loosely  wound  "kite-string"  fashion. 

The  loom  used  by  Delilah  was  no  doubt  like  the 
one  described  above  (Jgs  16  13.14).  It  would 
have  been  an  easy  matter  for  her  to  run  in  Sam- 
son's locks  as  strands  of  the  weft  while  he  lay  sleep- 
ing on  the  ground  near  the  loom  at  a  position  cor- 
responding to  (<]}.  The  passage  might  be  trans- 
posed thus:  "And  he  said  unto  her,  If  thou  weavest 
the  seven  locks  of  my  head  into  the  web.  And  she 
passed  in  his  locks  and  beat  them  up  with  the  bat- 
ten [~r?,  yathedh]  [see  h,  Fig.  1],  and  said  unto 
him,  The  Philistines  are  upon  thoe,  Samson.  And 
he  awakened  out  of  his  sleep  and  as  he  jumped  up 
he  pulled  away  the  pins  of  the  loom"  (/>,  Fig.  1). 

The  counterpart  of  the  Bedouin  loom  is  shown 
on  the  ancient  tombs  at  Beni  Hasan  (see  EB,  5279, 
or  Wilkinson,  I,  317).  As  Dr.  Kennedy  points  out, 
the  artist  of  that  ancient  picture  has  unwittingly 
reversed  the  order  of  the  beams.  The  shedding 
beam,  of  the  two,  should  be  nearer  the  weaver.  At 
what  period  the  crude  shedding  device  described 
above  was  replaced  by  a  double  set  of  loops  worked 
by  pedals  is  unknown.  Some  writers  believe  that 
the  Jews  were  acquainted  with  it.  The  "flying 
shuttle"  of  the  modern  loom  is  probably  a  compara- 
tively recent  invention. 

The  products  of  the  Bedouin  looms  are  coarse 
in  texture.  Such  passages  as  Ex  35  35;  Isa  19  9, 
and  examples  of  ancient  weaving,  lead  us  to  believe 
that  in  Bible  times  contemporaneous  with  the 
primitive  loom  were  more  highly  developed  ma- 
chines, just  as  in  the  cities  of  Egypt  and  Pal  today, 
alongside  of  the  crude  Bedouin  loom,  arc;  found  the 
more  intricate  hand  looms  on  which  are  produced 
the  most  delicate  fabrics  possible  to  the  weaver's 
irt.  Examples  of  cloth  comparing  favorably  with 
Kir  best  grades  of  muslin  have  been  found  among 
the  Egyp  mummy  wrappings. 

Two  other  forms  of  looms  have  been  used  for  weaving, 
n  both  of  which  the  warp  is  upright.  In  one  type  the 
strands  of  the  warp,  singly  or  in  bundles,  are  suspended 
rom  a  beam  and  held  taut  by  numerous  small  weights 


Weaving 
Weights 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3078 


made  of  stones  or  pottery.  Dr.  Bliss  found  at  Trl  <•!- 
Hexu  collection  of  weights,  sometimes  <>0  or  more  to- 
gether individual  examples  of  which  showed  marks 
where  cords  had  been  attached  to  them.  These  he 
assumed  were  weavers'  weights  (see  .1  Mound  of  Mann 
Cities).  In  this  form  the  weaving  was  necessarily  from 
top  to  bottom. 

The  second  type  of  upright  loom  is  still  used  in  some 
parts  of  Syria,  esp.  for  weaving  coarse  goat's  hair  cloth. 
In  this  form  t  he  warp  is  attached  to  the  lower  beam  and 
passes  vertically  upward  over  another  beam  and  thence 
to  a  wall  where  it  is  gathered  in  a  rope  and  tied  to  a  peg, 
or  it  is  held  taut  by  heavy  stone  weights.  The  manipu- 
lation is  much  the  same  as  in  the  primitive  loom,  ex- 
cept that  the  weft  is  beaten  up  with  an  iron  comb.  '\  he 
web  is  wound  up  on  the  lower  beam  as  it  is  woven  (cf 
Jsa  38  1-2). 


In  all  these  kinds  of  weaving  the  Syrian  weavers  of 
today  are  very  skilful.  If  a  cylindrical  web  is  referred 
to  in  Jn  19  23,  then  Jesus'  tunic  must  have  been 
woven  with  two  sets  of  warp  threads  on  an  upright 
loom  so  arranged  that  the  weft  could  be  passed  first 
through  one  shed  and  then  around  to  the  other  side 
and  back  through  the  shed  of  the  second  set. 

Goliath's  spear  was  compared  in  thickness  to  that 
of  the  weaver's  beam,  i.e.  2  in.  to  2',  in.  in  diameter 
(1  S  17  7;  2  S  21  10;  1  Ch  11  23;  20  5)  (see  d, 
Fig.  1). 

In  Job  7  0,   if   "shuttle"   is  the  right  rendering 


Patterns  are  woven  into  the  web  (1)  by  making 
the  warp  threads  of  different  colors,  (2)  by  alter- 
nating colors  in  the  weft,  (3)  by  a  combination  of 
(1)  and  (2);  this  produces  checked  work  CT5'£ , 


FK;.  4.— Showing   Tpright  Loom. 

<,>,  Ex  28  39  RV);  (4)  by  running  special  weft 
threads  through  only  a  portion  of  the  warp.  This 
requires  mut'h  skill  and  is  probably  the  kind  of 
weaving  referred  to  in  Ex  26  Iff;  Ezk  16  13;  27 
16;  (o)  when  metals  are  to  be  woven,  they  are  rolled 
thin,  cut  into  narrow  strips,  wound  in  spirals  about 
threads  of  cotton  or  linen  (cf  Ex  28  off;  39  3ff). 


for  rnS  ,  'crcf/h,  the  reference  is  to  the  rapidity 
with  winch  the  thread  of  the  shuttle  is  used  up,  as 
the  second  part  of  the  verse  indicates. 

For  a  very  full  discussion  of  the  terms  employed  sec 
A.  K.  S.  Kennedy  in  EB,  IV,  527(>  90. 

JAMES  A.  PATCH 
WEB.     See  SPIDER;  WEAVING. 

WEDDING.     See  MARRIAGE. 

WEDGE,  wej,  OF  GOLD  (irtt  •ptii'1;  ,  lashon 
zahdbh.  lit.  "tongue  of  gold"):  A  piece  of  gold  in  (In- 
form of  a  wedge  found  by  Achan  in  the  _sack  of 
Jericho.  It  was  in  one  of  the  forms  in  which  gold 
was  used  for  money  and  was  probably  stamped  or 
marked  to  indicate-  its  weight,  which  was  50  shekels, 
i.e.  one  mdncJi,  according  to  the  Ileb  standard,  or 
nearly  two  pounds  troy.  Its  value  would  be  £102 
10s.,  "or  Soil).  See  MONEY;  POUND.  A  wedge, 
or  rather,  oblong  rectangular  strip  of  gold,  of  similar 
weight  has  been  found  in  the  excavations  of  Gezer 
(Macalister,  Bible,  Hide-Lif/hts,  121).  Along  with 
metal  rings  they  were  doubtless  used  as  an  early 
form  of  currency.  In  Isa  13  12  AV,  kcthem,  "pure 
gold"  (so  RV),  is  trd  us  "golden  wedge"  on  insuffi- 
cient grounds.  H.  PORTER 

WEEDS,  wed/  (?1D  .  suph,  "a  weed"  [Jon  2  ,r>]). 
See  FLAG;  COCKLE;  RED  SEA. 


WEEK,  wok  (y^V,  sh*l>hua\  from  7^     ,  sfu-bhu*, 
seven";    o-apparov-Ta,  sdbbaton-ta,  "from  sabbath 


3079 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Weaving 
Weights 


to  sabbath"):  The  seven-day  division  of  time  com- 
mon to  the  Hebrews  and  Babylonians  (Gen  29  27. 
2S;  Lk  18  12).  See  ASTRONOMY ;  TIME.  "Week" 
is  used  in  the  apocalyptic  writings  of  Daniel  for  an 
unknown,  prophetic;  period  (Did  9  24-27).  For 
the  names  of  the  days  sec  ASTROLOGY,  12. 

WEEKS,  FEAST  OF.     See  PENTECOST. 
WEEKS,  SEVENTY.     See  SEVENTY  WEEKS. 
WEEPING,  wep'ing.     See  BURIAL,  IV,  4,  ">,  6. 

WEIGHT,  wat    (Measure  of   quantity)   (^ 
niixfibnl,    ^p^K,    mMikol    [Kzk  4  10],  from       . 
slifikdl.,  "to  weigh,"  I^X ,  'cbhcn,  "a  stone,"  used  for 
weighing  in  the  balance):    Weights  were  commonly 


Hron/,e  and  Stone  Weights  Used  in  Nineveh. 


of  stone  or  bronze  (or  of  lead,  Zee  5  7.8).  Thev 
were  of  various  forms,  such  as  the  lion-shaped 
weights  of  Babylonia  and  Assyria,  or  in  the  form  of 
birds  and  other  animals.  The  Heb  and  Phoen 
weights,  when  made  of  stone,  were  barrel-  or  spindle- 
shaped,  but  in  bronze  they  were  often  cubical  or 
octagonal  or  with  numerous  faces  (see  illustration 
under  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES).  Hemispherical  or 
dome-shaped  stone  weights  have  been  found  in  Pal 
(P/iYAS,  1002,  ]>.  344;  1903,  p.  117;  1904,  p.  209). 

Figurative:  The  phrase  "without  weight  (2  K  25 
16)  signifies  a  quantity  too  great  to  be  estimated. 
"Weight  of  glory"  (2  Cor  4  17,  Papos,  bdros)  has 
a  similar  meaning,  but  with  a  spiritual  reference 
"Weighty,"  "weightier"  (Mt  23  23;  2  Cor  10  10. 
fSapfo,  bar  us,  (Japurepos,  bariUeros},  signify  what  is 
important.  The  Gr  67*05,  oykos  (He  12  1),  is  used 
in  the  sense  of  burden,  hindrance,  as  is  also  the 
Heb  netcl  (Prov  27  3).  H.  PORTER 

WEIGHTS,  wats,  AND  MEASURES:  The  sys- 
tem of  weights  and  measures  in  use  among  the 
Hebrews  was  derived  from  Babylonia  and  Egypt, 
esp.  from  the  former.  The  influence  of  these 
countries  upon  Pal  has  long  been  recognized,  but 
archaeological  investigations  in  recent  years  have 
shown  that  the  civilization  of  Babylonia  impressed 
itself  upon  Syria  and  Pal  more  profoundly  in  early 
times  than  did  that  of  Egypt.  The  evidence  of  this 

LlNKAK    M 

Finger  or  digit  (72^S<5 ,  Vr/«O 

Hand-breadth  or  palm  (J1EI3  .  (>  />/m/u 

Span  (7HT  ,  z>'.r<'ih) T 

Cubit   (H72X  .   'nmmah) 

Reed  (nip  .  kdnnh) 

Sabbath  day's  journey  (o-a/S/Sarou  666?,  sabbdtou  hodos) 


has  been  most  clearly  shown  by  the  discovery  of 
the  Am  Tab,  which  reveal  the  fact  that  the  official 
correspondence  between  the  Egyp  kings  and  their 
vassals  in  these;  lands  was  carried  on  in  the  language 
of  Babylonia  long  after  its  political  influence  had 
been  supplanted  by  that  of  Egypt.  It  is  natural, 
then,  that  we  should  look  to  Babylonia  for  the 
origin  of  such  important  elements  of  civilization 
as  a  system  of  weights  and  measures. 

It  was  finite  natural  that  men  should  have  found 
a  standard  for  linear  measures  in  the  parts  of  (In- 
human  body,   and   we  find    the  cubit, 
Linear     originally    the   length   of   the  forearm, 
Measures      taken  as  the  standard,  and  the  span, 
the    palm    and    the    digit,    or    finger- 
breadth,  associated  with  it    in   linear  measurement. 
They  do  not  seem  to  have  employed  the  foot,  though 
it    is   represented    in    the   two-thirds   of    the   cubit, 
which  was  used  by  the  Babylonians  in  the  manu- 
facture of  building-brick. 

This  system,  though  adequate  enough  for  man 
in  tin;  earliest,  times,  was  not  so  for  an  advanced 
stage  of  civilization,  such  as  the  Babylonians  reached 
before  the  days  of  Abraham,  and  we  find  that  thev 
had  introduced  a  far  more  accurate  and  scientific 
system  (see  Cntrr).  They  seem  to  have  employed, 
however,  two  cubits,  of  different  lengths,  one  for 
commercial  purposes  and  one  for  building.  We 
have  no  undoubted  examples  of  either,  but  judging 
by  the  dimensions  of  their  square  building-bricks, 
which  are  regarded  as  being  two-thirds  of  a  cubit 
on  a  sule,_we  judge  the  latter  to  have  been  of  about 
19  or  20  in.  Now  we  learn  from  investigations  in 
Egypt  that  a  similar  cubit  was  employed  there, 
being  of  from  20.6  to  20.77  in.,  and  it  can  hardly  be 
doubted  that  the  Hebrews  were  familiar  with  this 
cubit,  but  that  in  more  common  use  was  certainly 
shorter.  We  have  no  certain  means  of  determining 
the  length  of  the  ordinary  cubit  among  tin1  Hebrews, 
but  there  an;  two  ways  by  which  we  may  approxi- 
mate its  value.  The  Siloam  Inscription  states  that 
the  tunnel  in  which  it  was  found  was  1,200  cubits 
lorig^  The  actual  length  has  been  found  to  be  about 
1,707  ft.,  which  would  give  a  cubit  of  about  17.1 
in.  (see  PEF8,  1902,  179).  Of  course  the  given 
length  may  be  a  round  number,  but  it  gives  a  close 
approximation. 

Again,  the  Mish  states  that  the  height  of  a  man 
is  4  cubits,  which  we  may  thus  regard  as  the  average 
stature  of  a  Jew  in  former  times.  By  reference  to 
Jewish  tombs  we  find  that  they  wen;  of  a  length  to 
give  a  cubit  of  .something  over  17  in.,  supposing  the 
stature  to  be  as  above,  which  approximates  very 
closely  to  the  cubit  of  the  Siloam  tunnel.  The  con- 
sensus of  opinion  at  the  present  day  inclines  toward 
a  cubit  of  17.6  in.  for  commercial  purposes  and  one 
of  about  20  in.  for  building.  This  custom  of  having 
two  standards  is  illustrated  by  the  practice  in  Syria 
today,  where  the  builder's  measure,  or  dm',  is  about 
2  in.  longer  than  the  commercial. 

Of  multiples  of  the  cubit  we  have  the  measuring- 
reed  of  6  long  cubits,  which  consisted  of  a  cubit  ami 
a  hand-breadth  each  (Ezk  40  5),  or  about  10  ft. 
Another  measure  was  the  Sabbath  day's  journey, 
which  was  reckoned  at  2,000  cubits,  or  about  1,000 
yds.  Tin;  measuring-line  was  used  also,  but 
whether  it  had  a  fixed  length  we  do  not  know.  See 
SAHHATH  DAY'S  JOURNEY;  MEASURING  LINE. 
The  following  is  the  table  of  linear  measures: 


i  digits 

3  palms 

'2  spans 

(i  cubits,  (>  palms. 

..2,000     ".. 


.about        J    in. 

3      in. 

9      in. 

17.tiin. 

10      ft. 

"     3,000  ft. 


Weights 
Well 


THE  1XTERXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


In  the  XT  \v(>  h;ivo  the  fathom  (opyvid,  onjuid), 
ahoul  6  ft.,  and  the  furlong  (crrdStoi',  stddion],  600 
Gr  ft.  or  606  f  Eng.  ft.,  which  is  somewhat,  less  than 
one-eighth  of  a  mile.  The  mile  (fj.i\iov,  milion) 
was  5.000  Rom  ft.,  or  4,S54  Eng.  ft.,  somewhat  less 
than  the  Eng.  mile. 

Regarding  the  absolute  value  of  the  measures  of 
capacity  among  the  Hebrews  there  is  rather  more 
uncertainty  than  there  is  concerning 
2.  Meas-  those  of  length  and  weight,  since  no 
ures  of  examples  of  the  former  have  comedown 

Capacity  tons;  hut  their  relative  value  is  known. 
Sir  Charles  Warren  considers  them  to 
have  been  derived  from  the  measures  of  length  by 
cubing  the  cubit  and  its  divisions,  as  also  in  the 
case  of  weight.  \\  e  learn  from  Ezk  (45  11)  that 
the  Ixitfi  and  c/>fink  were  equivalent,  and  he  (War- 
ren) estimates  the  rapacity  of  these  as  that  of  ;,',,  of 
the  cubit  cubed,  or  about  2,333.3  cubic  in.,  which 
would  correspond  to  about  9  gallons  Eng.  measure. 
Assuming  this  as  the  standard,  we  get  the  following 
tables  for  liquid  and  dry  measure: 


the  talent,  but  the  Hebrews  reckoned  only  50  shekels 
to  the  maneh,  as  appears  from  Ex  38  2f).26,  where 
it  is  stated  that  the  amount  of  silver  collected  from 
603,550  males  was  100  talents  and  1,775  shekels,  and, 
as  each  contributed  a  half-shekel,  the  whole  amount 
must  have  been  301,775.  Deducting  the  1,775 
shekels  mentioned  besides  the  100  talents,  we  have 
300,000  or  3,000  to  the  talent,  and,  as  there  were  GO 
mdnetis  in  the  talent,  there  were  50  shekels  to  each 
indn<'h.  When  the  Hebrews  adopted  this  system  we 
do  not  know,  but  it  was  in  vogue  at  a  very  early 
date. 

The  shekel  was  divided  into  gcrnliK,  20  to  a  shekel 
(Ex  30  13).  The  gcmh  (rn3  ,  gcrd/i)  is  supposed 
to  be  some  kind  of  seed,  perhaps  a  bean  or  some 
such  plant.  The  shekel  of  which  it  formed  a  part 
was  probably  the  royal  or  commercial  shekel  of  1(50 
grains,  derived  from  Babylon.  But.  the  Hebrews 
certainly  had  another  shekel,  called  the  Phoen  from 
its  being  the  standard  of  the  Phoen  traders.  This 
would  be  natural  on  account  of  the  close  connection 
of  the  two  peoples  ever  since  the  days  of  David  and 


LIQUID    MEASURE 

1  I  OK   (V-  .  /"<//'.   Lev  14    10) 

4  logs,    l  kab  Qp.  kiih/i.  2   K  6  25)    . 

12    "         :<  kahs,  1  bin  Cp—  ,  Ai»,  Ex   30  24) 

72    "       IS     '        (i  bins,  1  hath  (r,3  ,  '"<"'.  1<:^k  45    10) 

720    "    iso     "    (it)     "   10 baths,  1  homer  or  k 


mer,  *,3,  fcor,  Ezk  45   14)... 


approximately  1     pint 
"  2     (|ts. 

"  1  J  gals. 

"  9       " 

"  00 


DitY    MKASCKK 


1      IOK 

4     logs,   1  kah 
7!      "       1  omrl 


•;  .  '--mi  r,  Kx  16    Hi) 

24  (')  kahs,      3J  oiners.   1  si-ali  ('nXC  •  *'"<'''•  *  K  i8  :{2) 

72         '     IS     '  10          "          :5  scahs,  lepliali  (HEX.  'cphtih,  K\   16   3(i) 

3(i()         '     '.)()     '  .">()          "        1.")  5  cphahs,  1  letlicch  (?|P5 .  l<'th< 'kh,  IIos  32).. 

720       "  ISO     "       100          "       30      "      10        "         2  lethcchs.  f  homer  or  kor  (Kzk  45  14) 


approximately  1     pint 

2  ((ts. 

3  qts.,  l!  pts. 
1  J  pecks 


5     hu.,  2}  pecks 
1 1     hu.,  1  peck 


S''d/i  and  lit/nlcfi,  in  the  above,  occur  in  the  II eb 
text,  but  only  in  the  margin  of  the  Eng.  It  will  be 
noticed  that  the  prevailing  element  in  these  tables 
is  t  he  duodecimal  which  corresponds  to  the  sexagesi- 
mal of  the  Bab  system,  but  it  will  be  seen  that  in  the 
case  of  weights  there  was  a  tendency  on  the  part  of 
the  Hebrews  to  employ  the  decimal  system,  making 
the  main /i  50  shekels  instead  of  (50,  and  1  he  talent 
3,000  instead  of  3, (500,  of  the  Bab,  so  here  we  see 
the  same  tendency  in  making  the  *oincr  the  tenth 
of  the  Tp/id/i  and  the  'cphdh  the  tenth  of  the  homer 
or  kr>r. 

Weights  were  probably  based  by  the  ancients 
upon  grains  of  wheat  or  barley,  but  the  Egyptians 
and  Babylonians  early  adopted  a  more 
3.  Weights  scientific  method.  Sir  Charles  War- 
ren thinks  that  they  took  the  cubes 
of  the  measures  of  length  and  ascertained  how  many 
grains  of  barley  corresponded  to  the  quantity  of 
water  these  cubes  would  contain.  Thus  he  infers 
that  the  Egyptians  fixed  the  weight  of  a  cubic  inch 
of  rain  water  at  220  grains,  and  the  Babylonians  at 
222;-;.  Taking  the  cubic  palm  at  25.928  cubic  in., 
the  weight  of  that  quantity  of  water  would  be 
5,7(50  ancient  grains.  The  talent  he  regards  as  the 
weight  of  2/3  of  a  cubit  cubed,  which  would  be  equal 
to  101.6  cubic  palms,  but  assumes  that  for  conveni- 
ence it  was  taken  at  100,  the  weight  being  57(5,000 
grains,  deriving  from  this  the  mdnch  (1/60  of  the 
talent)  of  9,600  grains,  and  a  shekel  (1/50  of  the 
mdnch)  192  grains.  But  we  have  evidence  that  the 
II eb  shekel  differed  from  this  and  that  they  used 
different  shekels  at  different  periods.  The  shekel 
derived  from  Babylonia  had  a  double  standard:  the 
light  of  160  grains,  or  1/3600  of  the  talent;  and  the 
heavy  of  just  double  this,  of  320  grains.  The  former 
seems  to  have  been  used  before  the  captivity  and 
the  latter  after.  The  Bab  system  was  sexagesimal, 
i.e.  60  shekels  went  to  the  mdn<:h  and  60  mdnehs  to 


Solomon,  but  we  have  certain  evidence  of  it  from 
the  extant  examples  of  the  monetary  shekels  of  the 
Jews,  which  are  of  this  standard,  or  very  nearly  so, 
allowing  some  loss  from  abrasion.  The  Phoen 
shekel  was  about  224  grains,  varying  somewhat  in 
different  localities,  and  the  Jewish  shekels  now  in 
existence  vary  from  212  to  220  grains.  They  were 
coined  after  the  captivity  (see  COINS),  but  whether 
this  standard  was  in  use  before  we  have  no  means 
of  knowing. 

Examples  of  ancient  weights  have  been  discovered 
iu  Pal  by  archaeological  research  during  recent 
years,  among  them  one  from  Samaria,  obtained  by 
Dr.  Chaplin,  bearing  the  inscription,  in  Heb,  rcbha* 
iicqeph  (D2Z  372^).  This  is  interpreted,  by  the  help 
of  the  cognate  Arab.,  as  meaning  "quarter-half," 
i.e.  of  a  shekel.  The  -actual  weight  is  39.2  grains, 
which,  allowing  a  slight  loss,  would  correspond 
quite  closely  to  a  quarter-shekel  of  the  light  Bab 
standard  of  160  grains,  or  the  quarter  of  the  half  of 
the  double  standard.  Another  specimen  discovered 
at  Tell  Zakariych  weighs  154  grains,  which  would 
seem  t  o  belong  to  the  same  standard.  The  weight s, 
of  which  illustrations  are  given  in  the  table,  are  all 
in  the  collection  of  the  Syrian  Protestant  College,  at 
Beirut,  and  were  obtained  from  Pal  and  Phoenicia 
and  are  of  the  Phoen  standard,  which  was  the  com- 
mon commercial  standard  of  Pal.  The  largest,  of 
the  spindle  or  barrel  type  (Fig.  1),  weighs  1,350 
grains,  or  87.46  grams,  evidently  intended  for  a  6- 
shekel  weight,  and  the  smaller  ones  of  the  same  type 
are  fractions  of  the  Phoen  shekel.  Figs.  2  and  3  are 
of  the  same  standard,  one  a  shekel  and  the  other  a 
two-shekel  weight.  They  each  have  12  faces,  and 
the  smaller  has  a  lion  stamped  on  each  face  save 
one,  reminding  us  of  the  lion-weights  discovered  in 
Assyria  and  Babylonia.  The  spindle  weights  are  of 
black  stone,  the  others  of  bronze. 


30S1 


THE  IXTERXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Weights 
Well 


T.MII.K   OF   HKHKKW   WKICHT.H 

derail.  (Kx   30    1:5,  7113.    II trait) about  ]  1                  grains 

licka    (half-shekel,  Kx   38   20,  yp.2 .  >>''ka)  .  .  IL'1.'                 ^"lins 

N/M  A.V/  Opt1 ,  .-•/«•£<  0 - 2L>  t  or  225  grains 

Man  <•!>  =50 'shekels  (i)ouiul,    1    K   10    17,  HI'S,  maneli) 1  I  .200 

Talent  =(50  ma >ie Its  or  :5,000  shekels  (Ex  38  '25,  122  ,  kikkar)  .  .                                          ..."  (172,000 


WEIGHTS  OF  PHOENICIAN  STANDARD. 


Tho  above  is  the  Phoen  standard.  In  the  Bab 
the  shekel  would  be  !(>()  or  320  grains;  the  mdnch 
,S,0()()  or  1(5,000,  and  the  talent  480,000  or  960,000 
grains,  according  as  it  was  of  the  light  or  heavy 
standard.  H.  POKTKK 

WELL:  (1)1X3,  be'cr;  cf  Arab,    Jo,  bi'r,  "well" 

or  "cistern";  usually  artificial:  "And  Isaac's  serv- 
ants digged  in  the  valley,  and  found  there  a  well  of 
springing  [in  "living"]  water"  ((Jen  26  I'.));  some- 
times covered:  "Jacob  ....  rolled  the  stone  from 
the  well's  mouth"  (Gen  29  10).  Be 'cr  may  also  be 
a  pit:  "The  vale  of  Siddim  was  full  of  slime  pits" 
(Gen  14  10);  "the  pit  of  destruction"  (Ps  65  23). 
(2)  "113,  bar,  usually  "pit":  "Let  us  slay  him,  and 
cast  him  into  one  of  the  pits"  (Gen  37  20);  maybe 
"well" :  "drew  water  out  of  the  well  of  Beth-lehcm" 
(2  S  23  1(5). 

(3)  71-777??,  pc/jt',  usually  "running  water,"  "fount," 
or  "source":  "Doth  the  fountain  send  forth  from 
the  same  opening  sweet  water  and  bitter?"  (.las 
3  11);  may  be  "well";  cf  "Jacob's  well"  (.In  4  (5). 
(4)  0p&xp,  phrettr,  usually  "pit":  "the  pit  of  the 
abyss"  (Rev  91);  but  "well";  cf  "Jacob's  well" 
(Jn  4  11.12):  "Which  of  you  shall  have  an  ass  or 
an  ox  fallen  into  a  well"  (AV  "pit")  (Lk  14  ">). 
(.">)  Kp-qvq,  krPne,  "wells"  (Sir  48  17),  Lat  fons, 
"spring"  (2  Esd  2  32). 

(6)  I*1?,  *ayin;  cf  Arab.  ,-v^C- ,  *ain,  "fountain," 

"spring":  "the  fountain  [10 V]  which  is  in  Jezreel" 
(1  S  29  1);  "In  Eliin  were  twelve  springs  [AV  "foun- 
tains"] of  water"  (Nu  33  9);  "She  [Rebckah]  went 
down  to  the  fountain"  (AV  "well")  (Gen  24  1(5); 
"the  jackal's  well"  (ERV  "the  dragon's  well,"  AV 
"the  dragon  well")  (Neh  2  13).  (7)  "^"C  ,  mifyait, 
same  root  as  (0);  "the  fountain  [AV  "well"]  of  the 
waters  of  Nephtoah"  (Josh  18  lo);  "Passing  through 
the  valley  of  Weeping  [AV  "Haca"!  they  make  it  a 
place  of  springs"  (AV  "well")  (Ps  84  (ij;  "Ye  shall 


draw  water  out  of  the  wells  of  salvation"  (Isa  12  3). 
(S)  npp  ,  mdkdr,  usually  figurative:  "Withtheeis 
the  fountain  of  life"  (Ps  36  9);  "The  mouth  of 
the  righteous  is  a  fountain  [AV  "well"]  of  life" 
(Prov  10  11);  "make  her  [Babylon's]  fountain  [AV 
"spring"]  dry"  (Jer  51  3(5);  "a  corrupted  spring" 
(Prov  25  2(5).  (9)  5'3'e  ,  '  wabbil"*,  V  2?5?  ,  nabha*, 

"to  flow,"  "spring,"  "bubble  up";  cf  Arab.  «xi  , 
nab*,  «AxX> ,  manba*,  c  »-yo  ,  yanbu*,  "fountain": 

"or  the  pitcher  is  broken  at  the  fountain"  (Eccl  12 
('));  "the  thirsty  ground  springs  of  water"  (Isa  35  7). 

(10)  JWk732  ,  woftt',  "spring,"    V^^f  >  y~l^(~l\  "'°  KO 
out,"  "the  dry  land  springs  of  water"  (Isa  41  IS); 
"a  dry  land  into  watersprings"   (Ps  107  3f)) ;    "the 
upper  spring  of  the  waters  of  Gihon"  (2  Ch  32  30). 

(11)  :fn«  ,  -ncbhckh,  root  uncertain,  reading  doubt- 
ful;   only  in  Job  38  1(5,   "Hast  thou  entered  into 
the  springs  of  the  sea?"  (12)  DinP  ,  fhom,  "deep," 
"abyss";    cf  Gen  1  2;    trd  "springs,"  AV  "depths" 
(Dt  8  7).      (13)    53,   (/<>!,    V  bb3,   r/dlal,   "to  roll"; 
cf  Gilgal  (Josh  5  9);    "a  spring  shut  up"  (Cant  4 
12).     (14)   n^3,   (jiillah,   "bowl,"   "basin,"   "JXH.!," 
same  root:  "Give  me  also  springs  of  water.     And  he 
gave  her  the  upper  springs  and  the  nether  springs" 


(Josh  15  19);  cf  Arab.  xJj  ,  kullat,  pronounced  gul- 
lat,  "a  marble,"  "a  cannon-ball." 

As  is  clear  from  references  cited  above,  wells  and 
springs  were  not  sharply  distinguished  in  name, 
though  br'cr,  and  phrear  are  used  mainly  of  wells, 
and  \iyin.,  ma^tjun,  wooa' ',  mabbua*  and  (poetically) 
mdkdr  are  chiefly  used  of  fountains.  The  Arab. 
bi'r,  the  equivalent  of  the  Heb  be'er,  usually  denotes 
a  cistern  for  rain-water,  though  it  may  be  qualified 
as  l>i'rj<un\  "well  of  gathering,"  i.e.  for  rain-water, 
or  as  bi'r  nab*,  "well  of  springing  water."  A  spring 


Well,  Jacob's 
Wickedness 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3082 


or  natural  fountain  is  called  in  Arab.  Yrm  or  nab* 
(cf  Hob  *ayin  and  mabbu0*).  These  Arab,  and  Hob 
words  for  "well''  and  "spring"  figure  largely  in 
place-names,  modern  and  ancient  :  Beer  (Nu  21  16); 
Beer-elim  (Isa  15  8),  etc;  *Ain  (a)  on  the  north- 
east, boundary  of  Pal  (Nu  34  11),  (h)  in  the  S.  of 
Judah,  perhaps  =En-rimmon  (Josh  15  32);  Enaiiu 
(C,en  38  It);  Enani  (Josh  15  34),  etc.  Modern 
Arab,  names  with  V;/»  are  very  numerous,  e.g.  *Ain- 
ul-fatthkhah,  *Airi-ul-hajlch,  ''Ain-karim,  etc.  See 
CISTERN;  Fe>rvr.\ix;  PIT;  POOL. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 
WELL,  JACOB'S.     See  JACOB'S  WELL. 

WELLSPRING,  wel'spring  ("lip's,  makor): 
Usually  "spring"  or  ''fountain"  (figuratively),  tr'1 
"wellspring"  only  in  two  passage's:  "Understand- 
ing is  a  wcllspring  of  life  unto  him  that  hath  it" 
(Prov  16  22  !  ;  "The  wellspring  of  wisdom  is  as  a 
flowing  brook"  (Prov  18  4).  See  Burroughs,  Pe- 
pucton,  p.  35;  \\ELL. 

WEN:  OnlyinLev  22  22,  "maimed."  or  "having 
a  wen  [rn  "sores"],  or  scurvy."  for  ^1  ,  yabbdl, 
"running,"  hence  "a  suppurating  sore"  (cf  RVm). 
A  "wen"  is  a  non-inflamed  indolent  tumor,  and  so 
"wen"  is  about  as  far  as  possible  from  the  meaning 
of  the  Hob. 

WENCH,  wench,  wensh  (JinBtJ  ,  shiphhuh):  The 
word  "wench"  is  found  only  in  2  S  17  17  AV,  where 
RV  lias  "maid-servant."  The  Ileb  word  Khi/thhuh 
hero  used  is  a  common  t  erm  for  maid-servant  ,  female 
slave.  AV  used  the  word  "wench"  to  convey  the 
meaning  maid-servant,  which  was  a  common  use 
of  the  word  at  that  time,  but  it  is  now  practically 
obsolete. 

WEST:  (1)  Usually  0?  ,  yum,  "sea,"  because  the 
Mediterranean  lies  to  the  \Y.  of  Pal;  not  usually  in 
figurative  expressions;  but  cf  Hos  11  10.  (2) 

Often    3"}Ip2  ,    ma*ardbh;    cf   Arab.    i^_jyi-,    gharb, 


and    LjvAX!  ,    maghrib,    "west," 

•  y- 

maghrib-ush-shems,    or    simply 


•   js 

maghrib, 


"sunset."  (3)  OTSfn  Slip  ,  m'blio'  Jui-shi-mcsh, 
"entrance  of  the  sun,"  X"12p  ,  mdh/iu',  \  S*3  ,  bo, 
"to  come  in."  (Just  as  HPT1??  ,  mizrdh,  is  the  rising 
of  the  sun,  or  east,  so  S13'C  ,  tndbho'  [or  2"iri2  , 
ma*drabh],  is  the  setting  of  the  sun,  or  west  :  "From 
the  rising  of  the  sun  \mizrah-  shemesh]  unto  the  going 
down  [mdblio]  tliereof"  [Ps  50  1;  cf  113  3;  Mai 
1  11].)  (4)  dvff/j.ri,  dnxitiT,  from  8vw,  duo,  "to  enter," 
"sink,"  "set."  The  (!r  usage  is  ||  to  the  Ileb  just 
cited:  "Many  shall  come  from  the  east  [anatolt, 
"rising"]  and  the  west"  (dustnc,  "setting")  (Mt.  8 
11). 

The  chief  figurative  use  of  the  word  "west"  is  in 
combination  with  "east"  to  denote  great  or  infinite 
distance,  as: 

"As  far  as  the  cast  is  from  the  west, 
So  far  hath  he  removed  our  transgressions 
from  us"  (Ps  103  12;. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

WHALE,  hwfd:  (1)  KTJTOS,  ksttm  (Sir  43  25  [RV 
"sea-monster"];  Three  ver  57  [RV  "whale"];  Mt, 
12  40  [RV  "whale,"  m  "sea-monster";  AV  "whale" 
throughout]).  (2)  "p?!?  ,  tannin  (Cien  1  21;  Job 
7  12),  "sea-monster,"  AV  "whale."  (3)  C^P  , 
tunnim  (Ezk  32  2),  "monster,"  ERV  "dragon," 
AV  "whale,"  AVm  "dragon." 


It  will  be  seen  from  the  above  references  that  the 
word  "whale"  does  not  occur  in  RV  except  in  Three 
ver  57  and  Mt  12  40.  Ketus,  the  original  word  in 
these  passages,  is,  according  to  Liddell  and  Scott, 
used  by  Aristotle;  for  "whale,"  Aristotle  using  also 
the  adj.  /c^rwSTjj,  ketodcs,  "cetacean";  Homer  and 
Herodotus  used  kctos  for  any  large  fish  or  sea-mon- 
ster or  for  a  seal.  It  is  used  in  Euripides  of  the 
monster  to  which  Andromeda  was  exposed.  In  the 
Heb,  in  the  Book  of  Jon,  we  find  ddgh  or  day  hah, 
the  ordinary  word  for  "fish":  "Arid  Jeh  prepared  a 
great  fish  to  swallow  up  Jonah"  (Jon  1  17).  Whales 
are  found  in  the  Mediterranean  and  are  sometimes 
cast  up  on  the  shore  of  Pal,  but  it  is  not  likely  that 
the  ancient  (Ireeks  or  Hebrews  were  very  familiar 
with  them,  and  it  is  by  no  means  certain  that  a 
whale  is  referred  to.  either  in  the  original  Jonah 
story  or  in  the  NT  reference  to  it.  If  any  particular 
animal  is  meant,  it  is  more  likely  a  shark.  Sharks 
are  much  more  familiar  objects  in  the  Mediterranean 
than  whales,  and  some  of  them  are  of  large  size. 
See  FISH. 

In  (Jen  1  21,  "And  God  created  the  great  sea- 
monsters"  (AV  "whales"),  and  Job  7  12, 

"Am  I  a  sea.  or  a  sea-monster  [AV  "whale"], 
That  thou  suttest  a  watch  over  me  ?" 

the  Ileb  has  tannin,  which  word  occurs  14  t  in  the 
OT  and  in  ARV  is  1rd  "monster,"  "sea-monster,"  or 
"serpent  ,"  and,  exceptionally,  in  Lam  4  3,  "jackals." 
AV  renders  in  several  passages  "dragon"  (cf  Ezk  29 
3  ERV). 

Tannim  in  Ezk  29  3  and  32  2  is  believed  to 
stand  for  tannin.  ARV  has  "monster,"  ERV 
"dragon,"  AV  "whale,"  AVm  "dragon,"  in  32  2, 
and  "dragon"  in  29  3.  Tannim  occurs  in  11  other 
passages,  where  it  is  considered  to  be  the  pi.  of  tann, 
and  in  RV  is  tr'1  "jackals,"  in  AV  "dragons"  (Job 
30  29;  Ps  44  10;  Isa  13  22;  34  13;  35  7;  43  20; 
Jer  9  11;  10  22;  14  G;  49  33;  51  37).  In  Mai 
1  3  we  find  the  fern.  pi.  tannoth.  See  DRAGON; 
JACKAL.  ALFRED  ELY  DAY 


WHEAT,  hwet  ([1]  Hlpn  ,  hilU'ih,  the  specific  word 
for  \\heat  [Clen  30  14;  Ex  34  22,  etc],  with  irvp6s, 
l»iros  [Jth  3  3;  Sir  39  26];  [2]  "O  ,  bur,  or  "13  ,  bar 
[Jer  23  28;  Joel  2  24;  Am  5  11;  8  6];  in  other 
passages  trd  "grain"  or  "corn";  [3]  <T!TOS,  si/o.s  [Mt 
3  12;  13  25.29.30;  Lk  3  17;  16  7;  22  31,  etc]  [for 
other  words  trd  occasionally  "wheat"  in  AV  see 
Cemx;  FOOD]):  Wheat,  usually  the  bearded  variety, 
is  cultivated  all  over  Pal,  though  less  so  than  barley. 
The  great,  plain  of  the  Hauran  is  a  vast  expanse  of 
wheat  fields  in  the  spring;  considerable;  quantities  are 
export  eel  via  Be>irUt,  Haifa  anel  (!aza.  The  "wheat 
harvest"  was  in  olelen  times  one  e>f  the  regular  divi- 
sions of  the  year  (Ex  34  22;  Jgs  15  1  ;  1  S  12  17); 
it  fe>lle>ws  the  barley  harvest  (Ex  9  31.32),  occurring 
in  April,  May  or  June,  aerording  te>  the  altitude. 
E.  W.  (i.  MASTERMAX 

WHEEL,  hwel:  (1)  "EHX  ,  'dpi/an,  is  the  usual 
word  (Kx  14  25,  etc).  In  Prov  20  26;  Isa  28  27 
the  rollers  of  a  threshing  wagon  are  meant  (see 
AGRICTLTUKE).  (2)  b353  ,  galgal,  "reeling  thing," 
generally  in  the  sense  of  "wheel"  (Isa  5  28,  etc.), 
butRV'in  Ezk  10  2.0.13  has  "whirling  wheels,"  an 
advantageous  change.  The  "wheel  ....  broken 
at  the  cistern"  in  Ee-cl  12  6  is  the  windlass  for 
elrawing  the  water,  and  by  the  figure  the  break- 
elown  of  the  olel  man's  breathing  apparatus  is  prob- 
ably meant.  In  Ps  83  13,  AV  has  "wheel,"  but 
this  tr  (that  of  LXX)  is  quite  impe>ssible;  RV 
"whirling  dust"  (sucked  up  by  a  miniature  whirl- 
wind) is  perhaps  right,  but  the  tr8  proposed  are  end- 
less. (3)  ^fc},  gilgal,  Isa  28  2$,  the  roller  of  a 
threshing  wagon.  (4)  D^3S5  ,  'obhnayim,  Jer  18  3. 


3083 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


See  POTTKH.  (a)  C7E  ,  pa*am,  Jgs  6  28,  lit.  "stop" 
(so  RVm),  and  the  sound  of  horses'  hoofsis  intended. 
((>)  rpoxfa,  trocltus,  Sir  33  5;  Jas  3  6  (AV  "course"). 
In  (he  former  passage,  "The  heart  of  a  fool  is  as  a 
cart -wheel,"  the  changeableness  of  a  light  disposition 
is  satirized.  In  Jas  (he  figure  i.s  of  a  wheel  in  rota- 
tion, so  that  a  flame  starting  at  any  point  is  quickly 
communicated  to  the  whole.  Just  so  an  apparently 
insignificant  sin  of  the  tongue  produces  an  incalcula- 
bly destructive  effect. 

The  phrase  "wheel  of  nature"  (Tpo^b?  TT)T  yefeVewv, 
trocli6s  tfs  ge/tfaeos)  is  used  here  for  "the  world  in  prog- 
ress." It  is  not  a  very  natural  figure  and  has  ^iven  riso 
to  much  discussion.  AV  accents  iruclios  ("course") 
instead  of  trocltus  ("wheel"),  but  the  lan^ua^e  through- 
out is  metaphorical  and  "course"  is  not  a  sufficiently 
metaphorical  word.  The  tr  "birth"  for  i/i:nrxrox  (so 
It V in),  i.e.  "a  wheel  set  in  motion  by  birth."  is  out  of  the 
question,  as  the  argument  turns  on  results  wider  than 
any  individual's  existence.  "Wheel  of  nature"  is  cer- 
tainly right.  But  a  comparison  of  life  to  a  wheel  in  some 
sense  or  other  (chiefly  that  of  "Fortune's  wheel")  is 
common  enough  in  ('. r  and  Lat  writers,  and,  indeed,  the 
exact  combination  troclmx  i/enexf-ox  is  found  in  at  least- 
one  (Orphic)  writer  (full  references  in  the  conims.  of 
Mayor  and  W.  Bauer).  It  would  seem,  then,  that  St. 
James  had  hoard  the.  phrase,  and  lie  used  it  as  a  striking 
figure,  with  entire  indifference  to  any  technical  signili- 
eanoe  it  might  have.  This  supposition  is  preferable  to 
that  of  an  awkward  tr  from  the  Aramaic-.  See,  COURSE. 
BUHTOX  SCOTT  EASTOX 

WHELP,  hwelp  ("V13  ,  gur,  or  T13 ,  gur;  either 
absol.  [K'/.k  19  2.3.5;  Nah  2  12];  or  const  r.  with 
'uryelt,  "lion"  [On  49  9;  Dt  33  22;  Jer  51  38; 
Nah  2  11];  also&r3^  "^  ,  b'nelaMn',  lit.  "sons  of  a 
lioness,"  trd  "the  whelps  of  the  lioness"  [Job  4  11]. 
In  Job  28  8,  AV  has  "lion's  whelps"  for  fntJ  ^, 
bcne  shdhug,  which  HV  renders  "proud  beasts,"  in 
"sons  of  pride."  In  Lam  4  3,  gur  is  used  of  the 
young  of  tannin,  RV  "jackals,"  AV  "sea-monsters," 
AVm  "sea-calves";  it  may  possibly  mean  "wolves"; 
O-KVJAVOS,  akiimnos,  the  technical  word  for  "lion's 
whelp"  [1  Mace  3  41):  These  references  are  all 
figurative:  "Judah  is  a  lion's  whelp"  (Gen  49  9); 
"Dan  is  a  lion's  whelp"  (Dt  33  22);  it  is  said  of 
the  Babylonians,  "They  shall  roar  together  like 
young  lions;  they  shall  growl  as  lions'  whelps" 
(Jer  51  3S);  of  the  Assyrians,  "Where  is  the  den  of 
the  lions,  and  the  feeding-place  of  the  young  lions, 
where  the  lion  and  the  lioness  walked,  the  lion's 
whelp,  and  none  made  them  afraid?  The  lion  did 
tear  in  pieces  enough  for  his  whelps,  and  strangled 
for  his  lionesses,  and  rilled  his  eaves  with  prey,  and 
his  dens  with  ravin"  (Nah  2  11.12).  In  Ezk  19 
2-9,  the  princes  of  Israel  are  compared  to  lions' 
whelps.  See  DRAGOX;  LION. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

WHIRLWIND,  hwurl'wind  (HBIO ,  silphah 
[Prov  1  27;  10  25;  Isa  5  2S;  17  13;  66  15;  Hos 
8  7;  Am  1  14;  Nah  1  3],  "I??,  s<Sar  [Hab  3  14; 
Zee  7  14;  Hos  13  3;  Ps  58  9;  Did  11  40],  ,V£C , 
r'ara/t  [2  K  2  1;  _Job  38  1;  40  6;  Isa  40  24';  '41 
10;  Zee  9  14]):  When  two  currents  from  opposite 
directions  meet,  a  circular  motion  results  called  a 
whirlwind.  On  the  sea  this  takes  up  small  par- 
ticles of  water  from  the  sea  and  condenses  some  of 
the  moisture  in  the  clouds  above,  forming  a  great 
funnel-shaped  column.  They  are  quite  common 
off  the  coast  of  Syria.  Considerable  damage  might 
be  done  to  a  small  ship  overtaken  by  them.  In  the 
desert,  sand  is  taken  up  in  the  same  way,  causing 
terrible  sand  storms  which  are  greatly  dreaded  by 
caravans.  Most  of  the  references  in  the  Bible  do 
not  necessarily  imply  a  circular  motion,  and  the 
word  "tempest"  might  be  used  in  translation. 

Storms  usually  come  from  the  S.W.  "Out  of 
the  ....  south  cometh  the  storm"  (Job  37  9); 
yet  in  Ezekiel's  vision  he  saw  a  whirlwind  coming 
out  of  the  north  (1  4),  Elijah  "went  up  by  a  whirl- 
wind into  heaven"  (2  K  2  11).  The  whirlwind 


Well,  Jacob's 
Wickedness 


indicates  (he  power  and  might   of  Jeh:    "Jeh  hath 
his  way  in  the  whirlwind  and  in  (he  storm"   (Nah 

I  3);     He   "answered   Job   out   of    (he   whirlwind" 
(Job  38   1). 

Most  of  the  Scriptural  uses  are  figurative;  of 
destruction:  "He  will  take  (hem  away  with  a  whirl- 
wind" (I's  58  9;  I'rov  1  27;  10  25;  Ilos  13  3;  Did 

II  40;  Am  1  14;   Hab  3  14;  Zee  7  Mj;  of  quick- 
ness:   "wheels  as  a  whirlwind"    (Isa  5  2S;    66   15; 
Jer  4  13);  of  the  anger  of  (lod:    "A  whirlwind  of 
(he  Lord  is  gone  forth  in  fury"  (Jer  23   19  AV);   of 
punishment,  to  (he  wicked:   "A  continuing  whirlwind 
.   .   .   .  shall  fall  ....  on  the  wicked"    (Jer  30  23 
AV).  ALFRED  II.  JOY 

WHITE,  hwlt,     See  COLORS. 

WHITE  HORSE.     See  HOUSE,  WHITE. 

WHITEWASH,  hwlt'wosh:  ARVm  gives  "white- 
wash" for  "untempered  mortar"  in  E/k  13  10  and 
22  28.  'Her  prophets  have  daubed  for  (hem,'  i.e. 
seconded  them,  "with  whitewash,"  (hus  giving  "a 
slight  wall"  (13  10  in)  a  specious  appearance  of 
strength.  See  MORTAR;  UNTEMPERED. 

WHOLE,  hoi,  WHOLESOME,  hdl'sum: 
"Whole,"  originally  "hale"  (a  word  still  in  poetic 
use),  had  at  first  the  meaning  now  expressed  by  its 
derivative;  "healthy."  In  (his  sense  "whole"  is 
fairly  common  (Job  5  IS,  etc)  in  EV,  although  much 
more  common  in  the  NT  than  in  the  ()T.  From 
this  meaning  "healthy,"  the  transi(ion  to  the  modern 
force  "complete,"  "perfect,"  "entire"  (Ex  12  (>, 
etc)  was  not  unnatural,  and  it  is  in  this  later  sense 
alone  that  the  advb.  "wholly"  (Lev  6  22,  etc)  is 
used.  "Wholesome,"  however,  is  derived  from  the 
earlier  meaning  of  "whole."  It  occurs  in  Prov  15  4, 
AV,  ERV,  "a  wholesome  tongue"  (XST ,  ro/;//o', 
"heal,"  RVm  "the  healing  of  the  tongue,"  AHV  "a 
gentle  tongue"),  and  in  1  Tim  6  3,  AV  "wholesome 
words"  (vyiaivai,  hugiaino,  "be  healthy,"  RVm 
"healthful,"  RV  "sound"). 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

WHORE,  hor,  WHOREDOM,  hor'dum.  See 
CRIMES;  HARLOT;  PUNISHMENTS. 

WICKEDNESS,  wik'ed-ncs:  The  state  of  being 
wicked;  a  mental  disregard  for  justice,  righteousness, 

truth,  honor,  virtue;  evil  in  thought 
1.  In  and  life;  depravity;  sinfulness;  crim- 

the  OT  inality.  See  SIN.  Many  words  are 

rendered  "wickedness."  There  are 
many  synonyms  for  wickedness  in  Eng.  and  also 
in  the  Heb.  Pride  and  vanity  lead  to  it:  "All  the 
proud,  and  all  that  work  wickedness  [fiyTjn  ,ritsh*ah] 
shall  be  stubble"  (Mai  4  1).  Akin  to  this  is  the 
word  "Jiy  ,  {dwen,  "iniquity,"  "vanity" :  "She  eateth, 
and  wipeth  her  mouth,  and  saith,  I  have  done  no 
wickedness"  (Prov  30  20).  Then  we  have  the  word 
rVin ,  hawivah,  meaning  "mischief,"  "calamity," 
coming  from  inward  intent  upon  evil:  "Lo,  this  is 
the  man  that  made  not  Clod  his  strength,  but  trusted 
in  the  abundance  of  his  riches,  and  strengthened 
himself  in  his  wickedness"  (Ps  52  7);  i"TET  ,  ziinmah, 
"wickedness"  in  thought,  carnality  or  lust  harbored: 
"And  if  a  man  take  a  wife  and  her  mother,  it  is 
wickedness"  (Lev  20  14);  n^? ,  \iwlah,  "per- 
verseness,"  "Neither  shall  the  children  of  wickedness 
afflict  them  any  more,  as  at  the  first"  (2  S  7  10). 
The  word  for  evil  (3^  ,  ?'«')  is  many  times  employed 
to  represent  wickedness:  "Remember  all  their 
wickedness"  (Hos  7  2).  Wickedness  like  all  forms 
and  thoughts  of  wrong,  kept  warm,  in  mind,  seems 
to  be  a  thing  of  growth;  it  begins  with  a  thought, 


Widow 
Wind 


THE  INTERNATIONA!,  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3084 


then  ;i  deed,  (lien  :i  character,  and  finally  a,  destiny. 
Even  in  (liis  life  men  increase  in  wickedness  till 
they  have  lost  all  desire  for  that,  which  is  good  in  (he 
sight  of  God  and  good  men;  (he  men  in  (lie  vision 
of  Isaiah  seem  to  be  in  a  condition  beyond  which 
(he  human  heart  cannot  go:  "Woe  unto  (hem  that 
call  evil  good,  and  good  evil;  that  put  darkness  for 
light,  and  light  for  darkness"  (Isa  6  20).  Shades 
of  thought  are  added  by  such  words  as  ?"1  ,  roa\ 
"evil,"  "badness":  "Give  them  according  (o  (heir 
work,  and  according  to  the  wickedness  of  their 
doings"  (Ps  28  4).  And  yth  ,  resha\  or  ""£1  , 
ris/i'ah,  also  gives  (he  common  thought  of  wrong, 
wickedness.  The  prophets  were  strong  in  denun- 
ciations of  all  iniquity,  perverseness,  and  in  announ- 
cing the  curse  of  God  which  would  cer(ainly  follow. 
Wickedness,  malignity,  evil  in  thought  and  pur- 
pose is  presented  by  the  word  irovr/pia,  poncria: 
"But  Jesus  perceived  their  wickedness, 
2.  In  and  said,  Why  make  ye  trial  of  me,  ye 

the  NT          hypocrites?"  (Mt  22  18),    Jesus  points 
oiit  the  origin  of  all  wrong:   "For  from 
within,  out  of  the  heart  of  men,  evil  thoughts  pro- 
ceed ....  wickednesses,  deceit,  lasciviousness  .... 
all  these  evil  things  proceed  from  within,  and  defile  the 
man"  (Mk  7  21-23).     See  Imitation,  of  Christ,  xiii,  5. 
DAVID  ROBERTS  DUNGAN 


WIDOW,  wid'd  (ni'CxX  ,  'almdndh;  \-f\pa, 
In  (he  OT  widows  are  considered  to  be  under  the 
special  care  of  Jeh  (Ps  68  o;  146  9;  Prov  16  25). 
Sympathetic  regard  for  them  comes  to  be  viewed  as 
a  mark  of  true  religion  (Job  31  1G;  Jas  1  27).  Dt 
is  rich  in  counsel  in  (heir  behalf  (24  17,  etc). 

The  word  is  first  mentioned  in  (he  NT  in  Acts 
6  1:  "There  arose  a  murmuring  of  the  Grecian 
Jews  against  the  Hebrews,  because  (heir  widows 
were  neglected  in  the  daily  ministration."  Paul 
charges  that  (hey  be  particularly  cared  for,  esp.  (hose 
that  are  "widows  indeed,"  i.e.  poor,  without  sup- 
port and  old  (1  Tim  5  2-16).  Some  try  to  find 
proof  in  this  passage  of  that  ecclesiastical  order  of 
widows  mentioned  in  post-apostolic  writings.  See 
LITERATURE,  SUB-APOSTOLICJ  WOMAN,  IV,  f>. 

GKO.   B.  EAGER 

WIFE,  wlf.  See  MARRIAGE;  RELATIONSHIPS, 
FAMILY. 

WIFE,  BROTHER'S.  See  MARRIAGE;  RELA- 
TIONSHIPS, FAMILY. 

WILD  BEAST,  wild  best:  (1)  PT  ,  zlz,  only  with 
">"ip  ,  sddhay,  "field,"  in  the  expression,  "niT  P7,  z!-? 
sddhay,  trd"wild  beasts  of  (he  field"  (Ps  60  11;  80 
13);  cf  Tg  to  Ps  80  13,  XPT  ,  zlzd',  "worm"  (BDB); 

Arab.    -A,    ziz,   "worm."     (2)  0"")?  ,    giylm   (Isa 

13  21;  34  14;  Jer  50  30).  (3)  2"»*X  ,  'iyim  (Isa 
13  21;  34  14;  Jer  50  39).  (4)  nn  ,  hay,  "living 
thing,"  often  trd  "wild  beast"  in  EV  (1  S  17  4(>, 
etc),  (o)  In  Apoc  (Ad  Est  16  24,  etc)  and  the 
NT  (Mk  1  13),  6-nplov,  thcrion.  (G)  Acts  10  12 
AV;  11  G,  Terpd-n-odov,  tetrdpodon,  RV  "four-footed 
beast." 

(1),  (2)  and  (3)  are  of  doubtful  etymology,  but 
the  context  makes  it  clear  in  each  case  that  wild 
beasts  of  some  sort  are  meant.  The  Tg  zlzd', 
"worm,"  is  possible  in  Ps  80  13,  (hough  not  prob- 
able in  view  of  the  |!  "boar":  "The  boar  out  of  the 
wood  doth  ravage  it,  and  the  wild  beasts  of  the 
field  feed  on  it,"  i.e.  on  the  vine  (figurative) 
brought  out  of  Egypt.  In  Ps  50  11,  however,  such 
an  interpretation  is  out  of  the  question.  All  the 
references  from  ver  8  to  ver  13  are  to  large  animals, 
bullocks,  goats,  cattle  and  birds.  Vulg  and  LXX 


have  in  80  13  "'wild  beast"  and  in  50  1 1  "beauty 
of  the  field"    (ti-0! 

Qlylm,  doubtfully  referred  to  flydh,  "drought," 
occurs  in  prophecies  of  the  desolation  of  Babylon 
in  Isa  13  21  ("wild  beas(s  of  the  desert")  and  Jer 
60  39,  of  Edom  in  Isa  34  14,  of  Assyria  in  Isa  23 

13  ("them  that  dwell  in  the  wilderness").     It  is 
associated  in   these  passages  with  names  of  wild 
beasts  and  birds,  some  of  them  of  very  doubtful 
meaning,    such    as    lannlm,    'ohlm,    'iyim,    $€*lrlm, 
benothyal&ndh.     Wild  beasts  of  some  sort  are  clearly 
meant,  though  the  kind  can  only  be  conjectured. 
The  word  occurs  in  Ps  74  14  ("the  people  inhabit- 
ing the  wilderness"),  where  it  is  possible  to  under- 
stand "beasts"  instead  of  "people."     It  occurs  also 
in  Ps  72  9  ("they  that  dwell  in   the  wilderness"), 
where  it  seems  necessary  to  understand  "men."     If 
(he  reading  stands,  it  is  not  easy  to  reconcile  this 
passage  with  the  others. 

'Iyim  occurs  in  Isa  13  21  and  34  14  and  in  Jer 
60  39,  three  of  the  passages  cited  for  qiylm.  AV 
referring  to  'I,  "island,"  renders  "wild  beasts  of 
the  islands"  (Isa  13  22).  RV  has  "wolves," 

in  "howling  creatures";  cf  Arab.     c«. 

—          o  ^J 

howl,"  and      -•!   ^wjj ,   ibn-amC,  or     tf, 
"jackal."     See  JACKAL.  ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

WILD-OX  (EX"),  rr'c>n~):  The  word  "unicorn" 
occurs  in  AV  in  N'U  23  22;  24  X;  Dt  33  17;  Job 
39  9.10;  Ps  22  21;  29  G;  92  10;  Isa  34  7  (AVm 
"rhinoceros").  RV  has  everywhere  "wild-ox" 
(m  "ox-antelope,"  Nu  23  22).  LXX  has  /J.ov6/<f- 
pus,  mondkeros,  "one-horned,"  except  in  Isa  34  7, 
where  we  find  oi  aSpoL,  hoi  hadroi,  "the  large  ones," 
"the  bulky  ones."  In  this  passage  also  LXX  has 
oi  Kpiol,  hoi  krio'i,  "the  rams,"  instead  of  EV  "bul- 
locks." Vulg  has  rhinoceros  in  Nu  23  22;  24  S; 
Dt  33  17;  Job  39  9.10;  and  unicornis  in  Ps  22 
21  (21  22);  29  G  (28  G);  92  10  (91  11);  Isa  34  7. 

As  stated  in  the  ar(s.  on  ANTELOPE  and  CATTLE, 
re'em  and  tc'o  (Dt  14  5;  Isa  51  20)  may  both  be 
the  Arabian  oryx  (Oryx  bcatrix),  of  which  the  com- 
mon vernacular  name  means  "wild-ox."  It  may 
be  presumed  that  "ox-antelope"  of  Nu  23  22  RVm 
is  meant  to  indicate  this  animal,  which  is  swift  and 
fierce,  and  has  a  pair  of  very  long,  sharp  and  nearly 
straight  horns.  The  writer  feels,  however,  that 
more  consideration  should  be  given  to  (he  viewjof 
Tristram  (Natural  History  of  the  Bible)  that  re'em 
is  the  urns  or  aurochs,  the  primitive  Bos  taurus, 
which  seems  to  be  depicted  in  Assyr  monuments 
and  referred  to  as  remit  (1U)B).  The  etymology 
of  re'cm  is  uncertain,  but  the  word  may  be  from  a 
root  signifying  "to  rise"  or  "to  be  high."  At  any 
rate,  there  is  no  etymological  warrant  for  the  as- 
sumption that  it  was  a  one-horned  creature.  The 

Arab.   *JN  ,   raim,  is  used  of  a  light-colored  gazelle. 

The  great  strength  and  fierceness  implied  in  most  of 
the  references  suit  the  wild-ox  better  than  the 
oryx.  On  the  other  hand,  Edom  (Isa  34  7)  was 
adjacent  to  the  present  home  of  the  oryx,  while 
there  is  no  reason  to  suppose  that  the  wild-ox  came 
nearer  than  Northern  Assyria.  There  is  possibly  a 
reference  to  the  long  horns  of  the  oryx  in  "But  my 
horn  hast  thou  exalted  like  (he  horn  of  (he  wild-ox" 
(Ps  92  10).  For  te'o,  LXX  has  6pv£,  orux,  in  Dt 

14  5  (but   <revT\lov   i]nie<pdov,   scullion   hemiephthon, 
"half-boiled    beet"    [!]    in    Isa  61  20).     Vulg   has 
oryx  in  both  passages.     While  we  admit  that  both 
r'''em  and  te'o  may  be  the  oryx,  it  is  perhaps  best^to 
follow     RVm,     rendering     re'em     "wild-ox."     The 
rendering  of  "antelope"  (RV)  for  te'o  is  defensible, 
but  "oryx"  would  be  better,  because  the  oryx  is  the 


3085 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  JilliLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Widow 
Wind 


only  antelope  that,  could  possibly  bo  meant,  it  and 
the  gazelle  (fbln),  already  mentioned  in  Dt  14  5, 
being  the  only  antelopes  known  to  occur  in  Pal  and 
Arabia.  In  Isa  34  7  it  seems  to  be  implied  that 
the  re'em  might  be  used  in  sacrifice. 

Figurative:  The  wild-ox  is  used  as  a  symbol  of  the 
strength  of  Israel:  "lie  hath  as  it  were  the  strength 
of  the  wild-ox"  (Xu  23  22;  24  S).  In  the  bless- 
ing of  the  children  of  Israel  by  Moses  it  is  said 
of  Joseph: 

"  And  liis  horns  are  the  horns  of  the  wild-ox: 
"With  them  he  shall  push  the  peoples  all  of  them, 
even  the  ends  of  the  earth "  (l)t  33  17). 

The  Psalmist  (29  5.0)  in  describing  the  power  of 
Jeh  says: 

"Yea,  Joh  breakoth  in  pieces  the  cedars  of  Lebanon. 
He  imiketh  them  also  to  skip  like  a  calf; 
Lebanon  and  Sirion  like  a  young  wild-ox." 

Again,  in  praise  for  Jeh's  goodness  (92  10):  "But 
my  horn  hast  thou  exalted  like  the  horn  of  the  wild- 
ox." 

In  Job  39  9-12  the  subduing  and  training  of  the 
wild-ox  are  cited  among  the  things  beyond  man's 
power  and  understanding.  See  ANTELOPE;  CATTLE. 

ALFRED  ELY  DAY 

WILDERNESS,  wil'der-nes.  See  DESERT; 
JUDAEA,  WILDERNESS  OF;  WANDERINGS  OF  ISRAEL. 

WILL.    See  TESTAMENT, 

WILL,  VOLITION,  vO-lish'un  (POX,  'abhdh, 
"P^";  ,  rdfoti;  Oe'Xco,  t field,  |3ov\o(Aai,  boulomai,  6t\T]pa., 
theleitiu):  "Will"  as  noun  and  vb.,  trans  and  in- 
trans,  carries  in  it  the  idea  of  "wish,"  "purpose," 
"volition."  "Will"  is  also  used  as  an  auxiliary  of 
the  future  tense  of  other  words,  but  the  independent 
vb.  is  frequent,  and  it  is  often  important  to  distin- 
guish between  it  and  the  mere  auxiliary,  esp.  in  the 
NT. 

In  the  OT  the  word  chiefly  rendered  "to  will"  is 
'dbhdli,  "to  breathe  after,"  "to  long  for."  With  the 
exception  of  Job  39  9;  Isa  1  19,  it  is  accompanied 
by  a  negation,  and  is  used  of  both  man  and  God. 
Several  other  words  are  employed,  but  only  sparsely. 
"Will"  as  noun  is  the  tr  chiefly  of  rafon,  "good-will," 
"wilfulness"  (Gen  49  6),  with  emphasis  on  the  vol- 
untariness  of  action  (Lev  1  3;  19  5;  22  19.29, 
etc);  also  of  nephexh,  and  a  few  other  words.  In 
the  NT  "will"  is  chiefly  the  tr  of  thclo  and  boulomai, 
the  difference  between  the  two  being  that  thclo 
expresses  an  active  choice  or  purpose,  boulomai, 
"passive  inclination  or  willingness,  or  the  inward 
predisposition  from  which  the  active  choice  pro- 
ceeds" (cf  Mk  15  9.12  with  ver  15).  "Will," 
noun,  is  thdema.  With  the  exception  of  a  few  pas- 
sages, it  is  used  of  the  will  of  God  (over  all,  Mt  18 
14";  in  all  things  to  be  done,  Mt  6  10;  26  42  |l  , 
etc;  ordering  all  things,  Eph  1  11,  etc);  human  will, 
however,  may  oppose  itself  to  the  will  of  God  (Lk 
23  25;  Jn  1  13;  Rom  7  IS;  here  the  capacity  to 
will  is  distinguished  from  the  power  to  do,  etc). 
Boulema  is  properly  counsel  or  purpose.  Wrhile  it 
is  possible  to  oppose  the  will  of  God,  His  counsel 
or  purpose  cannot  be  frustrated  (Acts  2  23;  4  28; 
Rom  9  19;  Eph  1  11;  He  6  17);  it  may,  how- 
ever, be  resisted  for  a  time  (Lk  7  30). 

In  Apoc,  for  "will"  we  have  thelcma  (1  Esd  9  9  [of 
God];  Keclus  43  16;  1  Mace  3  60;  Kcclus  8  15,  "his 
own  will");  boule  (Wisd  9  115,  KV  "counsel);  boulemu 
(2  Mace  15  5,  "wicked  will,"  KV  "cruel  purpose"); 
"wilful"  (Kcclus  30  X)  is  proalfs,  RV  "headstrong"; 
"willing"  (Wisd  14  1!)),  boulomai,  KV  "wishing"; 
thtld  (Ecclus  6  35);  "wilt"  (Wisd  12  18),  thclo,  KV 
"  hast  the  will "  (cf  2  Mace  7  10). 

RV  has  many  changes,  several  of  them  of  note  as 
bringing  out  the  distinction  between  the  auxiliary 
and  the  independent  vb.  Thus,  Mt  11  27,  "witi- 


eth  to";  Jn  7  17,  "if  anv  man  \\illeili  to  do  his 
will";  1  Tim  6  9,  ARV  "they  that  are  minded  to 
be  rich,"  ERV  "desire,"  etc. 

The  words  employed  and  passages  cited  show 
clearly  that  man  is  always  regarded  as  a  respon- 
sible being,  free  to  will  in  harmony  with  the  Divine,' 
will  or  contrary  to  it.  This  is  further  shown  by  t  In- 
various  words  denoting  refusal.  "Ye  will  not  come 
to  me,  that  ye  may  have  life"  (Jn  6  40;.  So  with 
respect  to  temptation.  We  may  even  choose  and 
act  deliberately  in  opposition  to  the  will  of  God. 
Yet  God's  counsel,  His  will  in  its  completeness,  ever 
prevails,  and  man,  in  resisting  it,  deprives  himself 
of  the  good  it  seeks  to  confer  upon  him. 

In  modern  psychology  the  tendency  is  to  make 
will  primary  and  distinctive  of  personality. 

W.  L.  WALKER 

WILL-WORSHIP:  In  Col  2  23,  "a  show  of 
wisdom  in  will-worship,"  for  tOeXoOprjaxia,  <'tft<'li>- 
threskia,  a  word  found  nowhere  else  but  formed 
exactly  like  "will-worship":  worship  originating  in 
the  human  will  as  opposed  to  the  Divine,  arbitrary 
religious  acts,  worthless  despite  their  difficulty  of 
performance. 

WILLOW  TREE,  wil'd-tre  (HEM?  ,  c 


Comparison  with  the  Arab.  oL^iA^  ,  w//.sv7/,  "the 
willow,"  makes  it  very  probable  that  the  tr  of  Ezk 
17  5  is  correct. 


WILLOWS,  wil'dz  (2'l3n?,  \mlbhwi;  Ma, 
itea  [Lev  23  40;  Job  40  22;'  Ps  137  2;  Isa  15 
7;  44  4]):  In  all  references  this  tree  is  mentioned 
as  beside  running  water.  They  may  all  refer  to 
the  willow,  two  varieties  of  which,  ~  tialix  fragiliti 
and  S.  alba,  occur  commonly  in  Pal,  or  to  the  closelv 
allied  Populus  eupkratiis  (also  X.O.  Salicaceae), 
which  is  even  more  plentiful,  esp.  on  the  Jordan 
and  its  tributaries.  The  Brook  of  the  Willows  (Isa 
16  7)  must  have  been  some  stream  running  from 
Moab  to  the  Jordan  or  Dead  Sea.  Popular  fancy 
has  associated  the  willows  of  Ps  137  2  with  the 
so-called  "weeping  willow"  (Salix  bubi/loniai),  but 
though  this  tree  is  found  today  in  Pal,  it  is  an  intro- 
duction from  Japan  and  cannot  have  existed  "by 
the  waters  of  Babylon"  at  the  time  of  the  captivity. 
E.  W.  G.  MASTERMAN 

WILLOWS,  THE  BROOK  OF  THE:  Evidently 
mentioned  as  the  boundary  of  Moab  (Isa  15  7)  and 
generally  identified  with  the  brook  Zercd.  See 
BROOK;  ZERED. 

WIMPLE,  wim'p'l:  RV  substitutes  "shawls" 
for  AV  "wimples"  in  Isa  3  22.  The  precise  article 
of  dress  intended  is  unknown.  See  DRESS. 

WIND,  wind  (H^l  ,  ruah;   avefxos,  dncmos):    Un- 

equal distribution  of  heat  in  the  atmosphere  causes 

currents  of  air  or  wind.     The  heated 

1.  Causes      air  rises  and  the  air  from  around  rushes 

in.  The  direction  from  which  a  cur- 
rent comes  determines  its  name,  as  west  wind  coming 
from  the  W.  but  blowing  toward  the  E.  When 
two  currents  of  air  of  different  directions  meet, 
a  spiral  motion  sometimes  results.  See  WHIRL- 
WIND. 

In  Pal  the  west,  wind  is  the  most  common.  It 
comes  from  the  sea  and  carries  the  moisture  which 

condenses  to  form  clouds,  as  it  is  turned 

2.  West         upward  by  the  mountains,  to  the  cooler 
Wind  layers  of  the  atmosphere.     If  the  tem- 

perature reached  is  cool  enough  the 
cloud  condenses  and  rain  falls.  Elijah  looked 
toward  the  \V.  for  the  "small  cloud,"  and  soon  "the 
heavens  grew  black  with  clouds  and  wind"  (1  K 
18  44  f).  "When  ye  see  a  cloud  rising  in  the  west, 


Window 

Wine,  Wine  Press 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3080 


straightway  ye  say,  There  comet h  a  shower;    and 
so  it  eometh  to  pass"  (Lk  12  54). 

The  south  wind  is  frequent  in  Pal.     If  it  is  slightly 

S.W.,  it  may  bring  rain,  but  if  it  is  due  S.  or  S.E., 

there  is  no  rain.     It  is  n  warm  wind 

3.  South        bringing    good    weather.      "When    ye 
Wind  see    a   south    wind    blowing,    ye    say, 

There  will  be  a  scorching  heat;  and  it, 
eometh  to  pass"  (Lk  12  55).  In  the  cooler  months 
it  is  a  gentle,  balmy  wind,  so  that  the  "earth  is  still 
by  reason  of  the  south  wind"  (Job  37  17;  of  Cant 
4  16). 

The  north  wind  is  usually  a  strong,  continuous 
wind  blowing  clown  from   the  northern  hills,  and 

while  it  is  cool  it.  always  "drives  away 

4.  North        rain,"  as  correctly  stated  in   Prov  25 
Wind  23  AV;  yet  it  is  a  disagreeable  wind, 

and  often  causes  headache  and  fever. 

The  east  wind  or  sirocco    (from  Arab,   shark = 

"east")   is  the   "scorching  wind"    (Jas  1  11)  from 

the  desert.     It   is  a  hot,   gusty  wind 

5.  East  laden  with  sand  and  dust   and  occurs 
Wind  most,  frequently  in  May  and  October. 

The  temperature  in  a  given  place  often 
rises  15  or  20  degree's  within  a  few  hours,  bringing 
the  thermometer  to  the  highest  readings  of  the  year. 
It  is  customary  for  the  people  to  close  up  the  houses 
tightly  to  kee'p  out  the  dust  and  heat.  The  heat 
and  dryness  wither  all  vegetation  (f!en  41  6). 
Happily  the  wind  seldom  lasts  for  more  than  three 
davs  at  a  time.  It  is  the  destructive  "wind  of  the 
wilderness"  (Job  1  19;  Jer  411;  13  24) :  _  "Joh 
caused  the  sea  to  go  back  by  a  strong  east  wind  all 
the  night"  (Ex  14  21)  for  the  children  of  Israel 
to  pass;  the  "rough  blast  in  the  day  of  the  east 
wind"  (Isa  27  S).  The  strength  of  the  wind  makes 
it  dangerous  for  ships  at  sea:  "With  the  east  wind 
thou  breakest  the  ships  of  Tarshish"  (Ps  48  7). 
Euraquilo  or  Euroclydon  (Acts  27  14  AV),  which 
caused  Paul's  shipwreck,  was  an  E.N.E.  wind,  which 
was  e-q>.  dangerous  in  that,  region. 

The  wind  is  directly  of  great,  use  to  the  farmer 

in  Pal  in  winnowing  the  grain  after  it  is  threshed 

by   treading  out   (Ps  14;    35  5;    Isa 

6.  Practical   17  13).     It  was  used  as  a  sign  of  the 
Use  weather  (Eccl  11  4).     It  was  a  neces- 
sity for  traveling  on  the  sea  in  ancient 

times  (Acts  28  "13;  Jas  3  4),  but  too  strong  a  wind 

caused  shipwreck  (Jon  14;    Mt  8  24;    Lk  8  23). 

The   Scriptural  references   to   wind   show   many 

illustrative  and  figurative  uses:    (1)  Power  of  God 

(1  K  19  11;  Job  27  21 ;  38  24;  Ps  107 

7.  Scripture  25;  135  7;  147  IS;  148  8;  Prov  30  4; 
References    Jer  10  13;   Hos  4  19;  Lk  8  2.r>):  "He 

caused  the  east  wind  to  blow  in  the 
heavens;  and  by  his  power  he  guided  the  south 
wind"  (Ps  78  2(1).  (2)  Scattering  and  destruction: 
"A  stormy  wind  shall  rend  it"  (Ezk  13  11;  cf 
5  2;  12  14;  17  21;  Hos  4  19;  8  7;  Jer  49  36; 
Alt  7  25).  (3)  Uncertainty:  "tossed  to  and  fro 
and  carried  about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine" 
(Eph  4  14;  cf  Prov  27  16;  Eccl  1  6;  Jn  3  8;  Jas 
1  6)  (4)  Various  directions:  "toward  the  four 
winds  of  heaven"  (Dnl  11  4;  cf  8  8;  Zee  2  6;  Mt 
24  31;  Mk  13  27).  (5)  Brevity:  "a  wind  that 
passeth  away"  (Ps  78  39;  cf  1  4;  35  5;  103  16). 
(6)  Nothingness:  "Molten  images  are  wind"  (Isa 
41  29;  cf  Jer  5  13).  ALFRED  H.  JOY 

WINDOW,  win'do.     See  HOUSE,  II,  1,  (9). 

WINDOWS    OF    HEAVEN.     See    ASTRONOMY, 
III,  4. 

WINE,  win,  WINE  PRESS,  win'pres: 
/.    Terms. — (1)   "p..,     y"!fin,    apparently    from    a 
non-Sem  root  allied  to  Or  (w)oinos,  Lat  vinum,  etc. 


This  is  the  usual  word  for  "wine"  and  is  found 
141  t  in  MT.  (2)  "TCH ,  hctner,  perhaps  "foam- 
ing" (Dt,  32'  U'and  MT  Isa  27  2  [but 
1.  Wine  see  ERVm]) ;  Aram.  "V2H ;  hamar 
(Ezr  6  9;  722;  Dnl  5  1.2.4.23).  (3) 
TJJTT1!? ,  tlroxh.  Properly  this  is  the  fresh  grape 
juice  (called  also  rniB'O  ,  mishrch,  Nu  6  3),  even 
when  still  in  the  grape  (Isa  65  8).  But  unfer- 
mented  grape  juice  is  a  very  difficult  thing  to  keep 
without  the  aid  of  modern  antiseptic  precautions, 
and  its  preservation  in  the  warm  and_  not  over- 
cleanly  conditions  of  ancient  Pal  was  impossible. 
Consequently,  tirosh  came  to  mean  wine  that  was 
not  fully  aged  (although  with  full  intoxicating 
properties  [Jgs  9  13;  Hos  4  11;  cf  Acts  2  13]) 
or  wine  when  considered  specifically  as  the  product 
of  grapes  (Dt  12  17;  18  4,  etc).  LXX  always 
(except  Isa  65  8;  Hos  4  11)  translates  by  oinos 
and  the  Tgs  by  hamar.  AV  has  "wine"  26  t,  "new 
wine"  11  t,  "sweet  wine"  in  Mic  6  15;  RV  "vint- 
age" in  Nu  18  12;  Mic  6  15  (with  the  same 
change  in  Neh  10  37.39  RVm;  Isa  62  8  ERVm). 
Otherwise  ERV  has  left  AV  unchanged,  while  ARV 
uses  "new  wine"  throughout.  (4)  Two  apparently 
poetic  words  are  C^C7  ,  'a.s-7.s  (RV  "sweet  wine," 
Isa  49  26;  Am  9  13;  Joel  1  5;  3  IS,  "juice"; 
Cant  8  2),  and  MO  ,  sobhc'  ("wine,"  Isa  1  22; 
••drink,"  Hos  4  18'  [m  "carouse"];  Nah  1  10). 
(5)  For  spiced  wine  three  words  occur:  7fD^3 , 
>,,,wkh,  Ps  75  8  (EV  "mixture");  tfy^S  ,  mim- 
$akh,  Prov  23  30  ("mixed  wine");  Isa  65  11  (RV 
"mingled  wine");  STO  ,  mczcgh,  Cant  7  2  (RV 
"mingled  wine");  cf 'also  Hp/in  "^ ,  yaijin  Itd- 
rckah,  Cant  8  2  ("spiced  wine").  (6)  D^pC^S , 
>namcthal'klm,  lit.  "sweet,"  Neh  8  10. 

(7)  "O£J,  shuklmr  (22  t),  tH  "strong  drink"  in  EV. 
Sfce&Aar  appears  to  mean  "intoxicating  drink"  of  any 
s;>rt  and  in  Nu  28  7  is  certainly  simply  "wine"  (cf  also 
its  use  in  parallelism  to  "wine"   in  Isa  5   11.22,  etc). 
In    certain    passages     (Lev  10  !>;     Nu  G  X;      181    !"», 
etc)    however,  it  is  distinguished  from  "wine,     and  tne 
meaning   is  not  quite  certain.     But  it  would  seem   to 
mean   "drink   not   made   from   grapes."     Of  such  only 
pomegranate  wine  is   named   in   the   Bible   (Cant  8  2), 
but  a  variety  of  such  preparations  (made  from  apples, 
quinces,  dates,  barley,  etc)  were  known  to  the  ancients 
and  must  have  been  used  in  Pal  also.     The  tr  "strong 
drink"  is  unfortunate,  for  it  suggests   "distilled  liquor, 
"brandy,"    which    is    hardly    in    point.     See    DUINK, 
STUONG. 

(8)  In  the  Apoc  and  NT  "wine"  represents  olcos, 
o'moN,  with  certain  compounds,  except  in  Acts  2   13, 
where  the  C!r  is  y\evKos,  yluukos,  "sweet,"  EV  "new 
wine." 

See  also  BLOOD;  DIUNK;  FLAGON;  FRUIT;  HONEY. 

(1)  Properly  speaking,  the  actual  wine  press  was 
called  na,  ydth  (Jgs  6  11,  etc),  and  the  receiving 

vat  ("fat")  3JT,  yckcbh  (Nu  18  27, 
2.  Wine  etc),  but  the  names  were  interchange- 
Press  able  to  some  degree  (Isa  16  10;  Job 

24  11;  cf  Isa  5  2,  RV  text  and  m) 
and  either  could  be  used  for  the  whole  apparatus 
(see  GATH  and  cf  Jgs  7  25;  Zee  14  10).  In  Isa 
63  3  the  Heb  has  rTttS  ,  purah,  "winetrough,"  a 
word  found  also  in  Hag  2  16  where  it  seems  to  be 
a  gloss  (so,  apparently,  ARV). 

(2)  In  the  Apoc  (Sir  33  16)  and  in  the  NT  (Mt 
21  33;    Rev  14  19.20  [bis];    19  15)  "winepress"  is 
\riv6s,  lends;    in  Mk  12  1  viro\^viov,  hupolenion,  by 
which  only  the  receiving  vat  seems  to  be  meant 
(RV  "a  pit  for  a  winepress"). 

//.  Wine  -Making.—  For  the  care  of  the  vine,  ita 
distribution,  different  varieties,  etc,  see  VINE. 
The  ripening  of  the  grapes  took  place  as  early  as 
June  in  the  Jordan  valley,  but  on  the  coast  not 
until  August,  while  in  the  hills  it  was  delayed  until 
September.  In  whatever  month,  however,  the 


30S7 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Window 

Wine,  Wine  Press 


coming  of  the  vintage  was  ihc  signal  for  the  vil- 
lagers to  leave  their  homes  in  a  body  and  to  encamp 
in    booths    erected    in    the   vineyards, 

1.  The  so  that   the  work  might,  be  carried  on 
Vintage          without      interruption      (see     TABER- 
NACLES, FEAST  OF).     It  was  the  great 

holiday  season  of  the  year  and  the  joy  of  the  vintage 
was  proverbial  (Isa  16  10;  Jer  25  30;  48  33; 
of  Jgs  9  27),  and  fragments  of  vintage  songs  seem 
to  be  preserved  in  Isa  27  2;  65  <S.  The  grapes  were 
gathered  usually  by  cutting  off  the  clusters  (see 
SICKLE),  and  were  carried  to  the  press  in  baskets. 

Many  of  the  ancient  wine  presses  remain  to  the 

present    day.     Ordinarily    they    consisted    of    two 

rectangular    or    circular    excavations, 

2.  Wine         hewn  (Isa  5  2)  in  the  solid  rock  to  a 
Presses          depth  of  2  or  3  feet.     "Where  possible 

one  was  always  higher  than  the  other 
and  they  were  connected  by  a  pipe  or  channel. 
Their  size,  of  course,  varied  greatly,  but  the  upper 


Largo  Foot  Press  (Egyptian). 

vat  was  always  wider  and  shallower  than  the  lower 
and  was  the  press  proper,  into  which  the  grapes 
were  thrown,  to  be  crushed  by  the  feet  of  the  tread- 
ers  (Isa  63  1-3,  etc).  The  juice  flowed  down 
through  the  pipe  into  the  lower  vat,  from  which  it 
was  removed  into  jars  (Hag  2  1(1)  or  where  it  was 
allowed  to  remain  during  the  first  fermentation. 

Many  modifications  of  this  form  of  the  press  are 
found.  "Where  there  was  no  rock  close  to  the  sur- 
face, the  vats  we're  dug  in  the  earth  and  lined  with 
stonework  or  cement,  covered  with  pitch.  Or  the 
pressvat  might  be  built  up  out  of  any  material 
(wood  was  much  used  in  Egypt),  and  from  it  the 
juice  could  be  conducted  into  a  sunken  receptacle 
or  into  jars.  Not  infrequently  a  third  (rarely  a 
fourth)  vat  might  be  added  between  the  other  two, 
in  which  a  partial  settling  and  straining  could  take 
place.  Wooden  beams  are  often  used  either  to 
finish  the  pressing  or  to  perform  the  whole  operation, 
and  holes  into  which  the  ends  of  these  beams  fitted 
can  still  be  seen.  A  square  of  wood  attached  to 
the  beam  bore  down  on  the  pile  of  grapes,  while  the 
free  end  of  the  beam  was  heavily  weighted.  In  the 
simpler  presses  the  final  result  was  obtained  by 
piling  stones  on  the  mass  that  remained  after  the 
treaders  had  finished  their  work. 

It  is  a  general  principle  of  wine-making  (cf  OIL) 
that  "the  less  the  pressure  the  better  the  product"; 
therefore  the  liquid  that  flowed  at  the 
3.  Grading  beginning  of  the  process,  esp.  that  pro- 
duced by  the  mere  weight  of  the  grapes 
themselves  when  piled  in  heaps,  was  carefully  kept 
separate  from  that  which  was  obtained  only  under 
heavy  pressure.  A  still  lower  grade  was  made 
by  adding  water  to  the  final  refuse  and  allowing 
the  mixture  to  ferment.  Possibly  this  last  con- 
coction is  sometimes  meant  by  the  word  "vinegar" 
(homes). 

'  In  the  climate  of  Pal  fermentation  begins  almost 
immediately,  frequently  on  the  same  day  for  juice 
pressed  out  in  the  morning,  but  never  later  than 
the  next  day.  At  first  a  slight  foam  appears  on 


the  surface  of    the  liquid,   and   from    that    moment, 

according   to   .Jewish    tradition,    it    is    liable    to    the 

wino-t  it  lie  (Mu'<~iN<~mt/>   1  7).      The  ac- 

4.  Fermen-   1  ion  rapidly  becomes  more  violent ,  and 
tation  while  it  is  in  progress  the  liquid  must  be 

kept  in  jars  or  in  a  vat,  for  it  would 
burst  even  the  newest  and  strongest  of  wine-skins 
(Job  32  19).  Within  about  a  week  this  violent 
fermentation  subsides,  and  the  wine  is  transferred 
to  other  jars  or  strong  wine-skins  (Mk  2  22  and 
's),  in  which  it  undergoes  the  secondary  fermen- 
tation. At  the  bottom  of  the  receptacles  collects 
the  heavier  matter  or  "lees"  (""""l^'iT  ,  xli'inanni,  Ps 
75  8  ["dregs"];  .Jer  48  11;  Zeph'l  12;  in  Jsa  26 
(>  the  word  is  used  for  the  wine  as  well,),  from  which 
the  "wines  on  the  lees"  gather  strength  and  flavor. 
At  the  end  of  40  days  it,  was  regarded  as  properly 
"wine"  and  could  be  offered  as  a  drink  offering 
CEdhuyyoth  6  1).  The  practice  after  this  point 
seems  to  have  varied,  710  doubt  depending  on  the 
sort  of  wine  that  was  being  made.  Certain  kinds 
were  left  undisturbed  to  age  "on  their  lees"  and 
were  thought  to  be  all  the  better  for  so  doing,  but 
before  they  were  used  it  was  necessary  to  strain 
them  very  carefully.  So  Isa  25  G,  'A  feast  of  wine 
aged  on  the  lees,  thoroughly  strained.'  But  usually 
leaving  the  wine  in  the  fermentation  vessels  inter- 
fered with  its  improvement  or  caused  it,  to  degen- 
erate. So  at  the  end  of  40  days  it  was  drawn  off 
into  other  jars  (for  storage,  1  Ch  27  27,  etc)  or 
wine-skins  (for  transportation,  Josh  9  4,  etc).  So 
Jer  48  11:  'Moab  has  been  undisturbed  from  his 
youth,  and  he  has  rested  on  his  lees  and  has  not 
been  emptied  from  vessel  to  vessel There- 
fore his  flavor  remains  unchanged  for  "becomes 
insipid"]  and  his  scent  is  unimproved  [or  "lacks 
freshness"]';  cf  Zeph  1  12. 

Jars  were  tightly  sealed  with  caps  covered  with 

pitch.     The  very  close  sealing  needed  to  preserve 

sparkling    wines,    however,    was    un- 

5.  Storage     known  to  the  Hebrews,  and  in  conse- 

quence (and  for   other  reasons)   such 

wines  were  not  used.  Hence  in  Ps 
75  8,  "The  wine  foamcth,"  the  allusion  must  be  to 
very  new  wine  whose  fermentation  had  not  yet 
subsided,  if,  indeed,  the  tr  is  not  wrong  (RVm  "The 
wine  is  red").  The  superiority  of  old  wine  to  new 
was  acknowledged  by  the  Hebrews,  in  common 
with  the  rest  of  the  world  (Sir  9  10;  Lk  5  39),  but 
in  the  wines  of  Pal  acetous  fermentation,  changing 
the  wine  into  vinegar,  was  likely  to  occur  at  any 
time.  Three  years  was  about  the  longest  time  for 
which  such  wines  could  be  kept,  and  "old  wine" 
meant  only  wines  that  had  been  stored  for  a  year 
or  more  (Bab.  ttuth.  6  3).  See  also  CRAFTS,  II,  19. 
///.  Use  of  Wine. — In  OT  times  wine  was  drunk 
undiluted,  and  wine  mixed  with  water  was  thought 

to  be  ruined  (Isa  1  22).  The  "mixed" 
1.  Mixed  or  "mingled  wines"  (see  I,  1,  (5),  above) 
Wine  were  prepared  with  aromatic  herbs 

of  various  sorts  and  some  of  these  com- 
pounds, used  throughout  the  ancient  world,  were 
highly  intoxicating  (Isa  6  22).  Wine  mixed  with 
myrrh  was  stupefying  and  an  anaesthetic  (Mk  15 
23).  At  a  later  period,  however,  the  Cir  use  of 
diluted  wines  had  attained  such  sway  that  the 
writer  of  2  Mace  speaks  (15  39)  of  undiluted  wine 
as  "distasteful"  (polcmion).  This  dilution  is  so 
normal  in  the  following  centuries  that  the  Mish 
can  take  it  for  granted  and,  indeed,  It.  Eliezer  even 
forbade  saying  the  table-blessing  over  undiluted 
wine  (Ii''rdkhOth  7  />).  The  proportion  of  water 
was  large,  only  one-third  or  one-fourth  of  the  total 
mixture  being  wine  (Nul/lah  2  7;  l)l'mhltn  1086). 

NOTE. — The  wino  of  the  Last  Supper,  accordingly, 
may  bo  described  in  modern  terms  as  a  sweet,  red,  fer- 
mented  wine,  rather  highly  diluted.  As  it  was  no  doubt 


Winebibber 
Wisdom 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


30R8 


the  ordinary   wine  of  commerce,   tlr.-ro  is   no  reason   to 
suppose  that  it  was  particularly  "  pure." 

Throughout  ihe  OT,  wine  is  regarded  as  a  neces- 
sity of  life  and  in  no  way  as  a  more  luxury.  It 
was  a  necessary  part  of  even  the  sim- 
2.  Wine-  plost  meal  ((Jon  14  IS;  Jgs  19  19; 
Drinking  1  S  16  20;  Isa  55  1,  etc),  was  an 
indispensable  provision  for  a  fortress 
(2  Ch  11  11),  and  was  drunk  by  all  classes  and  all 
ages,  oven  by  the  very  young  (Lam  2  12;  Zee,  9 
17).  "Wine"  is  bracketed  with  "grain"  as  a  basic 
staple  ((Jon  27  2S,  etc),  and  the  failure  of  the  wine- 
crop  or  its  destruction  by  foreigners  was  a  terrible 
calamity  (Dt  28  30.39;  Isa  62  S;  65  21;  Mic  6  15; 
Zeph  1  13,  etc).  On  the  other  hand,  abundance  of 
wine  was  a  special  token  of  God's  blessing  (Gen  27 
2S;  Dt  7  13;  Am  9  14,  etc),  and  extraordinary 
abundance  would  be  a  token  of  the  Messianic  age 
(Am  9  13;  Joel  3  IS;  Zee,  9  17).  A  moderate  "glad- 
dening of  the  heart"  through  wine  was  not  looked 
upon  as  at  all  reprehensible  (2  S  13  2S;  Est  1  10; 
Ps  104  lo;  Eccl  9  7;  10  19;  Zee  9  !.">;  10  7),  and 
while  Jgs  9  13  represented  a  mere  verbal  remnant 
of  a  long-obsolete  concept,  yet  the  idea  contained  in 
the  verse  was  not  thought  shocking.  "Drink  offer- 
ings," indeed,  were  of  course  a  part  of  the  proscribed 
ritual  (Lev  23  13,  etc;  see  SACRIFICE),  and  a  store 
of  wine  was  kept  in  1  he  t  omplo  (tabernacle)  to  insure 
their  performance  (1  Ch  9  29).  Even  in  later  and 
much  more  moderate  times,  Sir  writes  the  laudation 
of  wine  in  31  27,  and  the  writer  of  2  Mace  (see 
above)  objects  as  strongly  to  pure  water  as  he  does 
to  pure  wine.  Christ  adapted  Himself  to  Jo\\  ish 
customs  (Mt  11  19  I  Lk  7  34;  Lk  22  18),  and  ex- 
ogetos  usually  suppose  that  the  celebrated  verse 
1  Tim  6  23  is  meant  as  a  safeguard  against  as  -otic 
(gnostic?)  dualism,  as  well  as  to  give  medical  advice. 

On  the  temporal  conditioning  of  the  Bib.  cus- 
toms, the  uncompromising  opposition  of  the  Bible 
to  excess,  and  the  non-applicability  of  the  ancient 
attitude  to  the  totally  different  modern  conditions, 
see  DitrNKKNNKss. 

The  figurative  uses  of  wine  are  very  numerous, 
but  are  for  the  most  part  fairly  obvious.  Those 
offering  difficulty  have  been  discussed  in  the  course 
of  the  article.  For  wine  in  its  commercial  aspect 
see  THADK.  BIKTOX  SCOTT  EASTON 

WINEBIBBER,  wm'bib-er:  In  Prov  23  20, 
]^_  S5b,  Kdhhc  yayin;  in  Mt  11  19  =  Lk  7  34, 
oiVoTrirTjs,  oino/x'ttrH,  of  habitual  wine-drinkers.  The 
accusat  ion  was  falsely  brought  against  Jesus  of  being 
"a  gluttonous  man  and  a  winobibber,"  because, 
unlike  .John,  He  ate  and  drank  with  others. 

WINEFAT,  win 'fat,  WINE  PRESS,  wln'pres, 
WINEVAT,  wln'vat.  See  CRAFTS,  II,  19;  VINK; 
WINK. 

WINE-SKINS  (man,  hcmcth  [Gen  21  14m], 
"S?:,  n'ddh  [Jgs  4  19,  "bottle"],  bi:  ,  ncbltcl,  bn:  , 
ru>1>hd  [1  S  10  3m],  31S  ,  'dbh  [Job  32  19];  do-Kos, 
r/.sV;<'>.s[Mt  9  17;  Mk  2  22;  Lk  5  37;  cf  do-Ko-jrvTivi!, 
askoputinv,  Jth  10  5,  11 V  "leathern  _  bottle"]): 
These  words  are  all  used  to  designate  skins  for  the 
containing  of  liquids,  nchhd,  however,  being  the 
most  common  in  the  case  of  wine.  The  Israelite, 
like  the  modern  Arab  and  Syrian,  used  mainly  the 
skin  of  the  goat  and  the  sheep,  but  the  skins  of  the 
ox  and  the  camel  have  also  been  put  to  this  purpose. 
The  skin  is  removed  from  the  animal  by  drawing 
it  over  the  body  from  the  neck  downward,  half  the 
skin  on  each  of  the  limbs  being  also  retained.  It 
is  then  tanned,  the  hair  cut  close,  turned  inside  out, 
and  has  all  the  openings  save  one  closed  with  cords, 
when  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  reference  to  "a  wine- 


skin  in  the  smoke"  in  Ps  119  S3  is  generally  ex- 
plained on  the  supposition  of  its  being  hung  there 
for  mellowing  purposes,  but  this  can  scarcely  be 
accepted,  for  wine  is  never  left  for  any  length  of 
time  in  the  ski  a  on  account  of  its  imparting  a  dis- 
agreeable flavor  to  the  contents.  The  explanation 
of  the  NT  passages  is  that  the  new  wine,  still  liable 
to  continue  fermenting  to  a  small  extent  at  least, 
was  put  into  new,  still  expansible  skins,  a  condition 
that  had  ceased  in  the  older  ones.  See  WINK. 

W.  M.  CHKISTIK 
WINEVAT.     See  WIXKFAT,  WINK  VAT. 

WINGS,  wingz  (EI2  ,  kandph;  irrtpv^,  ptcritx): 
Bib.  references  to  the  wings  of  birds  are  common, 
esp.  in  Pss,  many  of  them  exquisitely  poetical.  Often 
the  wings  of  an  eagle  are  mentioned  because  they 
are  from  7  to  9  ft.  in  swoop,  of  untiring  flight,  and 
have  strength  to  carry  heavy  burdens:  so  they 
became  the  symbol  of  strength  and  endurance. 
Ancient  monuments  and  obelisks  are  covered  with 
the  heads  of  bulls,  lions,  different  animals,  and  men 
oven,  to  which  the  wings  of  an  eagle  wore  added  to 
symbolize  strength.  Sometimes  the  wings  of  a 
stork  are  used  to  portray  strong  flight,  as  in  the 
vision  of  Zechariah:  "Then  lifted  I  up  mine  eyes, 
and  saw,  and,  behold,  there  came  forth  two  women, 
and  the  wind  was  in  their  wings;  now  they  had 
wings  like  the  wings  of  a  stork;  and  they  lifted 
up  the  ephah  between  earth  and  heaven"  (5  9). 
The  wings  of  a  dove  symbolized  love.  ^  ings  in  the 
abstract  typified  shelter,  strength  or  speed,  as  a  rule, 
while  in  some  instances  their  use  was  ingenious  and 
extremely  poetical,  as  when  Job  records  that  the 
Almighty  used  wings  to  indicate  migration:  "And 
stretcheth  her  wings  toward  the  south"  (39  20). 
In  Ps  17  8  there  is  a  wonderful  poetical  imagery 
in  the  plea,  "Hide  me  under  the  shadow  of  thy 
wings."  In  Ps  18  10  there  is  a  reference  to  "the 
wings  of  the  wind."  And  in  55  6  the  Psalmist 
cries,  "Oh  that  I  had  wings  like  a  dove!"  The 
brightness  and  peace  of  prosperous  times  are  beau- 
tifully described  in  Ps  68  13,  'the  wings  of  a  dove 
covered  with  silver,  and  her  pinions  with  pale  green 
gold.'  The  first  rays  of  dawn  are  compared  to 
"the  wings  of  the  morning"  (139  9).  Solomon  was 
thinking  of  the  swift  ness  of  wings  when  ho  said,  "For 
riches  certainly  make  themselves  wings,  like  an 
eagle  that  flieth  toward  heaven"  (Prov  23  .5).  So 
also  was  Isaiah  in  40  31,  "They  that  wait  for  Job 
shall  renew  their  strength;  th:-y  shall  mount  up 
with  wings  as  eagles;  they  shall  run,  and  not 
be  weary;  they  shall  walk,  and  not  faint."  In 
Mai  4  2  AV,  there  is  a  beautiful  reference,  "But 
unto  you  that  fear  my  name  shall  the  Sun  of  right- 
eousness arise  with  healing  in  his  wings."  KV 
changes  "his"  to  "its."  Wings  as  an  emblem  of 
love  were  used  by  Jesus  in  the  cry,  "O  Jerusalem 
....  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  children 
....  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her 
wings"  (Mt  23  37).  GENE  STRATTON-POKTER 

WINK,  wink  ("fl ,  rdzam,  lit.  "to  roll  the  eyes") : 
The  act  or  habit  of  winking  was  evidently  considered 
to  be  evil  both  in  its  motives  and  in  its  results.  The 
idea  of  its  facetiousness,  prevalent  in  our  day,  is 
nowhere  apparent  in  the  Scriptures.  It  is  men- 
tioned frequently,  but  is  always  associated  with  sin. 
in  the  OT  esp.  'in  the  sense  of  conceit,  pride,  and 
rebellion  against  God:  "Why  doth  thine_  heart 
carry  thee  away?  and  what  do  thy  eyes  wink  at, 
that  thou  turnest  thy  spirit  against  God"  (Job  15 
12.13  AV).  So  also  Ps  35  19:  "Neither  let  them 
wink  with  the  eye  that  hate  me  without  a  cause." 
"A  naughty  person,  a  wicked  man,  walketh  with  a 
froward  mouth.  He  winketh  with  his  eyes,"  etc 
(Prov  6  12.13AV).  "He  that  winketh  with  the 


30S9 


Till']  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Winebibber 
Wisdom 


eve  cause!  h  sorrow"  (10   K)J.     See  Walk inson,  Edu- 
cation, of  t/ic  Heart,  "I'll  hies  of  ( lest  urc,"  194  IT. 

In  (h(!  NT  the  word  is  used  to  express  the  long- 
suffering  patience  iind  forgiveness  of  (!od  toward 
erring  Isniel:  "And  Ihe  limes  of  (his  ignorance  (lod 
winked  at"  (Acts  17  30  AV,  v-n-fpeldov,  hupen-idon, 
"overlooked,"  ;uid  so  tra  in  RV;  ef  Wisd  11  23; 
Ecclus  30  11).  The  use  of  "winked"  in  this  con- 
nection would  in  our  day,  of  course,  be  considered 
in  had  taste,  if  not  actually  irreverent,  but  it-  is  an 
excellent  example  of  the  colloquialism  of  AV. 

Ait-rum  W.YLWYX  EVAXS 

WINNOWING,  win'o-ing.  See  Acauci  i;n  iu;; 
FAN;  THHKSHI.M;. 

WINTER,  win'ter  (3^H ,  hon'/rii,  from  CHH , 
hdrnjik,  "to  inundate,"  "overflow"):  The  I'ainy 
season,  also  the  autumn  harvest  season  ((Jen  8  22; 
Ps  74  17;  Zee  14  X).  It  is  also  the  time  of  cold 
(Jer  36  22;  Am  3  !'•>).  The  vb.  "to  winter"  occurs 
in  Isa  18  (i.  ft' thaw  O^lp)  has  the  same  meaning  as 
horcph  (Cant  2  1 1).  -^ei^v,  chcimon,  corresponds 
to  hdrcph  as  the  rainy  season,  and  the  vb.  Trapaxet- 
judfu,  pamrhi'iindzo,  signifies  "to  pass  the  winter" 
(Acts  27  12),  the  noun  from  which  is  -n-apaxei^acrla 
paracheimasia  (ib).  See  SKASONS. 

WINTER-HOUSE  (rnhrrr*1? ,  btth  lm-horeph 
[Jer  36  22;  Am  3  !">]):  See  under  SUMMEII- 
iiorsi:.  The  "winter-house"  in  Jer  is  that  of  King 
Jehoiakim;  mention  is  made  of  the  fin;  burning  in 
the  brazier. 


WISDOM,  wi/'dum: 

1.  Linguist  ie 

2.  History 

:5.    Religious  Basis 

4.  Ideals 

5,  Teaching  of  Christ 


(>.   Kernainder  of  the  XT 

(1)  James 

(2)  Paul 
7.  Hypostasls 
LITERATURE 


In  RV  the  noun  "wisdom"  and  its  corresponding 
adj.  and  vb.  ("be  wise,"  "act  wisely,"  etc)  represent 

a  variety  of  Heb  words :  "p2, ,  bin 
1.  Lin-  (~P5  ,  Vinah,  and  in  ERV  ni^tf  , 

guistic  fbhundJi),  52T1J ,  sdkhal  (bwTZJ  ,  sckhel, 

bptp,  sekhel),  V? ,  Icbh  (and  in  ERV 
Sib  ,  ldbh(il)}i)',r?VKF\ ,  tushlydh  (and  in  ERV  C7S  , 
if'c///\  rTO"]y ,  W//m/i,  np.S ,  pikkc'lh.  None  of  these, 
however,  is  of  very  frequent  occurrence  and  by  far 
the  most  common  group  is  the  vb.  DSH  ,  hale  ham, 
with  the  adj.  CDH  ,  hdkhdm,  and  the  nouns  «"VG2n  , 
hokhtndh,  FiTCSn  ,  hokhmoth,  with  something  over 
300  occurrences  in  the  OT  (of  which  rather  more 
than  half  are  in  Job,  Prov,  and  Eccl).  Hokhmdh, 
accordingly,  may  be  treated  as  the  Heb  equivalent 
for  the  Eng.  "wisdom,"  but  none  the  less  the  two 
words  do  not  quite  correspond.  For  hokhmah  may 
be  used  of  simple  technical  skill  (Ex  28  3;  35  2f>, 
etc;  cf  Wisd  14  2;  Sir  38  31;  note  that  the  EV 
gives  a  false  impression  in  such  passages),  of  military 
ability  (Isa  10  13),  of  the  intelligence  of  the  lower 
animals  (Prov  30  24),  of  shrewdness  applied  to 
vicious  (2  S  13  3)  or  cruel  (1  K  2  9  Heb)  ends, 
etc.  Obviously  no  one  Eng.  word  will  cover  all 
these  different  uses,  but  the  general  meaning  is 
clear  enough — "the  art  of  reaching  one's  end  by  the 
use  of  the  right  means"  (Smend).  Predominantly 
<  he  "wisdom"  thought  of  is  t  hat  which  comes  through 
experience,  and  the  "wise  man"  is  at  his  best  in  old 
age  (Job  12  12;  15  10;  Prov  16  31;  Sir  6  34;  8  9; 
25  3-G,  etc;  contrast  Job  32  9;  Eccl  4  13;  Wisd  4 
9;  Sir  25  2).  And  in  religion  the  "wise  man"  is  he 
who  gives  to  the  things  of  Cod  the  same  acuteness 
that  other  men  give  to  worldly  affairs  (Lk  16  8). 
He  is  distinguished  from  the  prophets  as  not  having 
personal  inspiration,  from  the  priestly  school  as  not 


living  primary  stress  on  the  cult  us,  ;md  from  the 
scribes  as  not  devoted  simply  to  the  studv  of  the 
sacred  writings.  But,  in  the  word  by  itself,  a  "wise 
man"  need  not  in  any  way  be  a  religious  man. 

In  the  RV  Apoe  and  NT  the  words  "wisdom."  "wise," 
"act  wisely,"  etc,  are  always  tiM  of  <7«</.o<r,  x<>i>knx,  or  ./.p<u'i./xo?, 
vhri'mimon,  or  of  their  coKiiat.es.  For  "wisdom,"  however, 
o-oc/na,  mi i> hi «,  is  in  almost  every  ease  t  he  original  word,  t  he 
sole  exception  in  the  XT  being  JJt  1  17  (•/>po»'ij<7i<;,  jiltni- 
nt'siii).  See  also  PRUDENCE. 

(1)  In  the  prophetic,  period,  indeed,  "wise"  gen- 
erally has  an   irreligious  connotation.      Israel  was 

fully  sensible;  that  her  culture  was 
2.  History  beneath)  hat  of  the  surrounding  nations, 

but  thought,  of  this  as  the  reverse  of  a 
defect.  Intellectual  power  without  moral  control 
was  the  very  fruit  of  the  forbidden  tree  (den  3  f)), 
and  "wisdom"  was  essentially  a  heathen  quality 
(Isa  10  13;  19  12;  47  10;  K/k  28  3  :>;  Zee  9  2; 
specifically  Edomite  in  Jer  49  7;  Ob  ver  X;  con- 
trast Bar  3  22.23)  that  deserved  only  denunciation 
(Isa  5  21;  29  14;  Jer  4  22;  9  23;  18  IS,  etc). 
Certainly  at  this  time  Israel  was  endeavoring  to 
acquire  a  culture  of  her  own,  and  there  is  no  reason 
to  question  that  Solomon  had  given  it  a  powerful 
stimulus  (1  K  4  29-34).  But  the  times  were  too 
distracted  and  the  moral  problems  too  imperative 
to  allow  the  more  spiritually-minded  any  oppor- 
tunity to  cultivate  secular  learning,  so  that  "wis- 
dom" in  Israel  took  on  t  IK;  unpleasant  connotation 
of  the  quality  of  the  shrewd  court  counselors,  with 
their  half-heathen  advice  (Isa  28  14-22,  etc). 
And  the  associations  of  the  word  with  true  religion 
are  very  few  (Dt  4  6;  Jer  8  8),  while  Dt  32  0; 
Jer  4  22;  8  9  have  a  satirical  sound — 'what  men 
call  "wisdom"  is  really  folly!'  So,  no  matter  how 
much  material  may  have  gathered  during  this 
period  (see  PKOVKRHS),  it  is  to  the  post-exilic  com- 
munity that  we  are  to  look  for  the  formation  of  a 
body  of  Wisdom  literature  really  associated  with 
Israel's  religion. 

(2)  The  factors  that  produced  it  were  partly  the 
same  as  those  that  produced  scribism  (see  SCHIBIO). 
Life  in  Pal  was  lived  only  on  the  sufferance  of  for- 
eigners and  must  have  been  dreary  in  the  extreme. 
Under  the  firm  hand  of  Persia  there  were  no  political 
questions,  and  in  later  times  the  nation  was  too 
weak  to  play  any  part  in  the  conflicts  between  An- 
tioch  and  Alexandria.     Prophecy  had  about  dis- 
appeared, fulfilment  of  the  Messianic  hope  seemed 
too  far  off  to  affect  thought  deeply,  and  the  condi- 
tions were  not  yet  ripe  that  produced   the  later 
flame  of  apocalyptic  enthusiasm.     Nor  were  there 
vital  religious  problems  within  the  nation,  now  that 
the  fight  against  idolatry  had  been  won  and  the 
ritual  reforms   established.     Artistic   pursuits  were 
forbidden   (cf  esp.   Wisd  15  4-0),  and  the  Jewish 
temperament  was  not  of  a  kind  that  could  produce 
a  speculative  philosophy   (note  the  sharp  polemic 
against  metaphysics,  etc,  in  Sir  3  21-24).     It  was 
in  this  period,  to  be  sure,  that  Jewish  commercial 
genius  began  to  assert  itself,  but  there  was  no  sat- 
isfaction in  this  for  the  more  spiritually-minded  (Sir 
26  29).     So,  on  the  one  hand,  men  were   thrown 
back  on  the  records  of  the  past  (scribism),  while  on 
the  other   the  problems  of  religion   and   life  were 
studied  through  sharp  observation  of  Nature  and  of 
mankind.     And  the  recorded  results  of  the  latter 
method  form  the  Wisdom  literature. 

(3)  In  this  are  included  Job,  Prov,  and  Eccl,  with 
certain  Pss  (notably  19,  37,  104,  107,  147,  148);   in 
the  Apoe  must  be  added  Sir  and  Wisd,  with  part  of 
Bar;  while  of  the  other  writings  of  the  period  parts 
of  Philo,  4  Mace,  and  the   Ahikar  legend    belong 
here  also.    How  far  foreign  influence  was  at  work  it 
is  hard  to  say.     Egypt  had  a  Wisdom  literature  of 
her  own  (see  EGYPT)  that  must  have  been  known  to 


Wisdom 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3090 


sonic  degree  in  Pal,  while  Babylonia  and  Persia 
could  not,  have  been  entirely  without  effect — but 
no  specific  dependence  can  be  shown  in  any  of  these 
cases.  For  (1  recce  the  case  is  clearer,  and  Gr  in- 
fluence is  obvious  in  Wisd,  despite  the,  particularistic 
smugness  of  the  author.  But  there  was  vitality 
enough  in  Judaism  to  explain  the  whole  movement 
without  recourse  to  outside  influences,  and,  in  any 
case,  it  is  most  arbitrary  and  untrue  to  attribute  all 
the  Wisdom  speculation  to  Gr  forces  (as,  e.g.,  does 
Siegfried,  IIDIi). 

The  following  characteristics  are  typical  of  the 
group:   (1)  The  premises  are  universal.     The  writers 
draw    from    life   wherever   found,    ad- 
3.  Religious  mitt  ing  that  in  some  things  Israel  may 
Basis  learn  from  other  nations.     The  Prov- 

erbs of  Lemuel  are  referred  explicitly 
to  a  non-Jewish  author  (Prov  31  1  RVm),  and  Sir 
recommends  foreign  travel  to  his  students  (34  10.11; 
39  4).  Indeed,  all  the  princes  of  the  earth  rule 
through  wisdom  (Prov  8  10;  cf  Eccl  9  15).  And 
(-ven  some  real  knowledge  of  God  can  be  obtained 
bv  all  men  through  the  study  of  natural  phenomena 
(Ps  19  1;  Sir  16  29—17  14;  42  15—43  33;  Wisd 
13  2.9;  ef  Rom  1  20). 

(2)  But  some  of  the  writers  dissent  here  (Job  28 
28;  11  7;  Eccl  2  11 ;  8  10.17;  11  5;  Wisd  9  13[?]). 
And  in  any  case  this  wisdom  needs  God's  explicit 
grace  for  its  cultivation  (Sir  51  13-22;   Wisd  77; 

8  21),  and  when  man  trusts  simply  to  his  own  attain- 
ments he  is  bound  to  go  wrong  (Prov  3  5-7;  19  21; 
21  30;  28  11;  Sir  3  24;   5  2.3;   6  2;   10  12;   Bar 
3  15-28).     True   wisdom   must   center  about  God 
(Prov  15  33;  19  20 f),  starting  from  Him  (Prov  1  7; 

9  10;  Ps  111  10;  Sir  21  1 1 ;  Job  28  28)  and  ending 
in  Him   (Prov  2'5);    cf  esp.  the  beautiful  passage 
Sir  1  14-20.     But,  the  religious  attitude  is  far  from 
being  the  whole  of   Wisdom.     The  course  is  very 
difficult  (Prov  2  4  f;  4  7;  Sir  4  17;  14  22.23;  Wisd 
1  5;  17  1);  continual  attention  must  be  given  every 
department  of  life,  and  man  is  never  done  learning 
(Prov  9  9;   Sir  6  IS;  Eccl  4  13). 

(3)  The  -attitude  toward  the  written  Law  varies.     In 
Eccl  Job  and  Prov  it  is  hardly  mentioned  (Prov  28  7-9|  '.'I; 
29  is[  ?]).    Wisd,  as  a  special  pamphlet  against  idolatry, 
has  little  occasion  for  specific  reference,  but  its  high  esti- 
mate of  the  Law  is  clear  enough  (2  12-15;   18  '.>).     Sir, 
esp    can  find  no  terms  high  enough  for  the  praise  of  the 
Law  (esp.  chs  24,  86;  cf9  15;  21  LI,  etc),  and  he  identifies 
the  Law  with  Wisdom  (24  2:5-25)  and  claims  the  prophets 
as  Wisdom  teachers  (44  3.4).     Yet  this  perverse  identi- 
fication betrays  the  fact  that  Sir's  Interest  is  not  derived 
from  a  real  study  of  the  haw;  the  Wisdom  that  was  so 
precious  to  him  muxt  be  in  the  sacred  books!    Cf  Bar  4  1 
(rather  more  sincere). 

(4)  The  attitude  toward  the  temple-worship  is  much 
the  same.     The  rites  are  approved   (Prov  3  '.»;    Sir  35 
4-s-  38  11;  Sir  seems  to  have  an  especial  interest  in  the 
priesthood,  7  2«.)-:i:i;  50  5-21),  but   the   writers   clearly 
have  no  theory  of  sacrifice  that  they  can  utilize  for  prac- 
tical   purposes.     And    for    sacrifice    (and    even    prayer, 
Prov  28  '.))  as  a  substitute  for  righteousness  no  condem- 
nation is  too  strong  (Prov  7   14;   15  S;   20  25;  21  3.27; 
Sir  34  1S-26;   35  1-3.12;  Eccl  5  1). 

(5)  An  outlook  on  life  beyond  the  grave  is  notably 
absent  in  the  Wisdom  literature.     Wisd  is  the  only 
exception   (3  1,  etc),  but  Gr  influence  in  Wisd  is 
perfectly  certain.     In  Job  there  are  expressions  of 
confidence  (14  13-15;    19  25-29),  but  these  do  not 
determine  the  main  argument  of  the  book.     Prov 
does  not  raise   the   question,   while   Eccl  and   Sir 
categorically  deny  immortality   (Eccl  9  2-10;    Sir 
14  16;  17  27.28;  30  4;  note  that  RV  in  Sir  7  17; 
48  11  is  based  on  a  glossed  text;    cf  the  Heb). 
Even  the  Messianic  hope  of  the  nation  is  in  the  back- 
ground in  Prov   (2  21.22  [?]),  and  it  is  altogether 
absent  in  Job  and  Eccl.     To  Sir  (35  19;  36  11-14; 
47  22)  and  Wisd   (3  8;    5  16-23)  it  is  important, 
however,  but  not  even  these  works  have  anything 
to  say  of  a  personal  Messiah  (Sir  47  22  [  ?]) . 

(6)  That   in  all  the  literature  the  individual  is 


the  center  of  interest  need  not  be  said.  But,  this 
individualism,  when  combined  with  the  weak  es- 
chatology,  brought  dire  confusion  into  the  doctrine 
of  retribution  (see  Six).  Sir  stands  squarely  by 
the  old  doctrine  of  retribution  in  this  life:  if  at  no 
other  time,  a  man's  sins  will  be  punished  on  his 
deathbed  (1  13;  11  26).  Neither  Job  nor  Eccl, 
however,  are  content  with  this  solution.  The  latter 
leaves  the  problem  entirely  unsolved  (8  14,  etc), 
while  the  former  commends  it  to  God's  unsearchable 
ways. 

The  basis  of  the  Wisdom  method  may  be  de- 
scribed then  as  that  of  a  "natural"  religion  respect- 
ing revelation,  but  not  making  much 
4.  Ideals        use  of  it.     So  the  ideal  is  a  man  who 
believes  in  God  and  who  endeavors  to 
live  according  to  a  prudence  taught  by  observation 
of  this  world's  laws,  with  due  respect,  however,  to 
Israel's  traditional  observances. 

(1)  From  many  standpoints  the  resulting  char- 
acter is  worthy  of  admiration.     The  man  was  in- 
telligent,  earnest,    and   hard-working    (Prov   has   a 
particular   contempt   for   the   "sluggard";     and   cf 
Eccl  9  10).     Lying    and    injustice    are   denounced 
on  almost  every  page  of  the  literature,  and  unceasing 
emphasis  is  la'id  on  the  necessity  for  benevolence 
(Ps  37  21;    112  5.9;    Job  22  7;    31  16-20;    Prov 
3  27.2S;  14  31;  21  13;  22  9;  Eccl  11  1;  Sir  4  1- 
6;    7  34.35;    29  11-13;    40  24,  etc).      All    of   the 
writers  feel  that  life  is  worth  the  living— at  their 
most  pessimistic  moment  s  the  writers  of  Job  and  Eccl 
find  attraction  in  the  contemplation  of  the  world. 
In  Prov  and  Sir  the  outlook  is  even  buoyant,  Sir  in 
especial  being  far  from  indifferent  to  the  good  things 
of  life  (30  23-25;  31  27;   cf  Eccl  2  24  and  contrast 
Wisd  2  6-9). 

(2)  The  faults  of  the  Wisdom  ideal  are  the  faults 
of  the  postulates.     The  man  is  always  self-conscious 
and    self-centered.     All    intense    enthusiasms    are 
repressed,  as  likely  to  prove  entangling  (Eccl  7  16. 
17  is  the  most  extreme  case),  and  the  individual  is 
always    calculating    (Sir  38  17),    even    among    his 
friends  (Sir  6  13;  Prov  25  17)   and  in   his   family 
(Sir  33  19-23).     Benevolence  itself   is  to   be  exer- 
cised  circumspectly    (Prov  6  1-5;    20  16;    Sir  12 
5-7;  29  IS),  and  Sir,  in  particular,  is  very  far  from 
feeling  an  obligation  to  love  all  men  (25  7;   27  24; 
30  6;   50  25.26).     So  "right"  and  "wrong"  become 
confused   with    "advantage"   and    "disadvantage." 
Not  only  is  adultery  wrong  (Prov  2  17;  Sir  23  23), 
but    the  injured  husband   is    a    dangerous  enemy 
(Prov  5  9-11.14;    6  34.35;  Sir  23  21).     As   a  re- 
sult   the    ''moral   perspective"    is    affected.     With 
some  of  the  finest  moral  observations  in  Prov  and 
Sir  are  combined  instructions  as  to  table  manners 
(Prov  23  1-3;  Sir  31  12-18)  and  merely  humorous 
observations  (Prov  20  14),  while  such  passages  as 
Prov  22  22-28  and  Sir  41  17-24  contain  extraor- 
dinary conglomerations  of  disparate  motives. 

(3) "So  hope  of  earthly  recompense  becomes  a  very 
explicit  motive  (Prov  3  10;  11  25,  etc;  Wisd  7 
8-12  is  the  best  statement  on  the  other  side).  Even 
though  riches  are  nothing  in  themselves  (Prov  10  2; 
11  28;  23  4.5;  28  11;  Eccl  5  13;  Sir  11  19;  31 
5-7;  all  the  literature  denounces  the  unrighteous 
rich),  yet  Wisdom  is  to  be  desired  as  bringing  not, 
onlv  righteousness  but  riches  also  (Prov  8  21;  11 
25;  13  18;  Sir  4  15;  20  27.28;  Wisd  6  21).  This 
same  desire  for  advantage  gives  an  unpleasant  turn 
to  many  of  the  precepts  which  otherwise  would 
touch  the  highest  point;  perhaps  Prov  24  17.18  is 
the  most  extreme  case:  "Rejoice  not  when  thine 
enemy  falleth,  ....  lest  Jeh  .  .  .  .  turn  away 
his  wrath  from  him"  (!) 

(4)  But  probably  the  most  serious  fault  was  that 
the  Wisdom  method  tended  to  produce  a  religious 
aristocracy  (Sir  6  22,  etc).  It  was  not  enough  that 


30!)  1 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Wisdom 


the  heart,  tind  will  should  be  right,  for  a  long  course 
of  almost  technical  training  was  needed  (the  "house 
of  instruction"  in  Sir  61  23  is  probably  the  school; 
cf  I'rov  9  4).  The  uninstructed  or  "simple"  (Prov 
1  22,  etc)  wore  grouped  quite  simply  with  the 
"sinners";  knowledge;  was  virtue  and  ignorance  was 
vice.  Doubtless  Wisdom  cried  in  the  streets  (Prov 
1  20.21;  8  1-13;  9  1-0,  almost  certainly  a  refer- 
ence to  the  canvassing  efforts  of  the  teachers  for 
pupils),  but  only  men  of  ability  and  leisure  could 
obey  the  call  to  learn.  And  despite  all  that  is  said 
in  praise  of  manual  labor  (Prov  12  11;  24  27;  28 
10;  Sir  7  l.~>;  38  31.32.34),  Sirach  is  merely  frank 
when  he  says  explicitly  (38  25-34)  that  Wisdom 
cannot  be  for  artisans  (a  carpenter  as  Messiah  evi- 
dently would  have  been  unthinkable  to  Sir;  Mk  6 
3).  Scribism  was  at  work  along  the  same  lines  of 
development,  and  the  final  union  of  the  Wisdom 
method  with  the  scribal  produced  a  class  who  called 
the  common  people  accursed  (.In  7  49). 

The  statement  of  (lie  methods  and  ideals  of  the 

Wisdom  school  is  also  virtually  a  statement  of  Our 

Lord's  attitude  toward  it  and  an  cx- 

5.  Teaching  planation  of  why  much  of  His  teaching 
of  Christ        took  the  form  it,  did.     As  to  the  uni- 
versality of  the  premises  He  was  at 

one  with  the  Wisdom  writers,  one  great  reason  for 
the  universality  of  the  appeal  of  His  teaching. 
Almost  everything  in  the  life  of  the  time,  from  the 
lily  of  the  field  to  the  king  on  his  throne,  contributed 
its  quota  to  His  illustrations.  And  from  the  Wis- 
dom method  also  the  form  of  His  teaching — the  con- 
cise, antithetical  saying  that  sticks  in  the  memory — 
was  derived  to  some  degree.  (Of  all  the  sayings  of 
Christ,  perhaps  Lk  14  S-10— a  quotation  of  Prov 
25  0.7 — comes  nearest  to  the  pure  Wisdom  type.) 
In  common  with  the  Wisdom  writers,  also,  is 
the  cheerful  outlook,  despite  the  continual  pros- 
pect of  the  Passion,  and  we  must  never  forget 
that  all  morbid  asceticism  was  entirely  foreign  to 
Him  (Lk  7  34  j|  Alt  11  19).  With  the  self-con- 
scious, calculat  ing  product  of  the  Wisdom  method, 
however,  He  had  no  patience.  Give  freely,  give 
as  the  Father  giveth,  without  regard  to  self,  in 
no  way  seeking  a  reward,  is  the  burden  of  His 
teaching,  and  such  a  passage  as  Lk  6  27-38  seems 
to  have  been  aimed  at  the  head  of  such  writers  as 
Sir.  The  attack  on  the  religious  aristocracy  is  too 
familiar  to  need  recapitulation.  Men  by  continual 
exercise  of  worldly  prudence  could  make  themselves 
as  impervious  to  His  teaching  as  by  obstinate  ad- 
herence to  a  scribal  tradition,  while  His  message  was 
for  all  men  on  the  sole  basis  of  a  desire  for  righteous- 
ness on  their  part.  This  was  the  true  Wisdom,  fully 
justified  of  her  children  (Lk  7  35;  cf  Mt  11  19), 
while,  as  touching  the  other  "Wisdom,"  Christ 
could  give  thanks  that  Clod  had  seen  fit  to  hide  His 
mysteries  from  the  wise  and  prudent  and  reveal 
them  unto  "babes"  (Lk  10  21  Mt  11  25). 

(1)  The   remainder   of   the   NT,    despite   many 
occurrences  of  the  words  "wise,"   "wisdom,"   etc, 

contains  very  little  that  is  really  rele- 

6.  Re-  vant  to  the  technical  sense  of  the  words, 
mainder         The  one  not  able  except  ion  is  Jas,  which 
of  the  NT      has    even    been    classed    as    "Wisdom 

literature,"  and  with  some  justice. 
For  Jas  has  the  same  appeal  to  observation  of 
Nature  (1  11;  3  3-0.11.12;  5  7,  etc),  the  same 
observation  of  human  life  (2  2.3.15.10;  4  13,  etc), 
the  same  antithetical  form,  and  even  the  same 
technical  use  of  the  word  "wisdom"  (1  5;  3  15- 
17).  The  fiery  moral  zeal,  however,  is  far  above  that 
of  the  other  Wisdom  books,  even  above  that  of  Job. 

(2)  St.   Paul,  on  the  other  hand,  belongs  to  an 
entirely   different    class,    that   of   intense   religious 
experience,  seeking  its  premises  in  revelation.     So 
the   Wisdom   method    is    foreign   to   him   and   the 


absence  of  Nature  illustrations  from  his  pages  is 
notorious  (even  Rom  11  17  is  an  artificially  con- 
structed figure).  Only  one  passage  calls  for 
special  comment.  The  "wisdom"  against  which  he 
inveighs  in  1  Cor  1-3  is  not  Jewish  but  Gr — 
speculation  in  philosophy,  with  studied  elegance  in 
rhetoric.  Still,  Jewish  or  Gr,  the  moral  difficulty 
was  t  he  same.  God's  message;  was  obscured  t  hrough 
an  overvaluation  of  human  attainments,  and  so  St. 
Paid's  use  of  such  OT  passages  as  Isa  29  14;  Job 
6  13;  Ps  94  11  (in  1  Cor  1  19;  3  19.20)  is  en- 
tirely just.  Against  this  "wisdom"  St.  Paul  sets 
the  doctrine  of  the  Cross,  something  that  outraged 
every  human  system  but  which,  all  the  more,  taught 
man  his  entire  dependence  on  God. 

(3)  Yet  St.  Paul  had  a  "wisdom"  of  his  own 
(1  Cor  2  0),  that  he  taught  to  Christians  of  mature 
moral  (not  'intellectual:  3  1-3)  progress.  Some 
commentators  would  treat  this  wisdom  as  doctrinal 
and  find  it  in  (say)  Rom;  more  probably  it  is  to 
be  connected  with  the  mystical  experiences  of  the 
Christian  whose;  life  has  become  fully  controlled  by 
the  Spirit  (1  Cor  2  10-13).  For  religious  progress 
is  always  accompanied  by  a  higher  insight  that,  can 
never  be  described  satisfactorily  to  persons  without 
the  same  experience  (2  14). 

(1)  One    characteristic    of    the    Wisdom    writers 
that  proved  of  immense  significance  for  later  (esp. 

Christian)  theology  was  a  love  of  rhe- 
7.  Hypos-  torical  personification  of  Wisdom  (Prov 
tasis  1  20-33;  8  1— -9  0;  Sir  4  11-19;  6  23- 

31;  14  20—15  10;  24;  51  13-21;  \Yisd 
6  12—9  18;  Bar  3  29-32).  Such  personifications 
in  themselves  are  not,  of  course,  remarkable  (cf 
e.g.  the  treatment  of  "love"  in  1  Cor  13),  but  the 
studied,  somewhat  artificial  style  of  the  Wisdom 
writers  carries  out  the  personification  with  a  curious 
elaboration  of  details:  Wisdom  builds  her  house, 
marries  her  disciple,  mingles  wine,  etc.  The  most 
famous  passage  is  Prov  8  22-31,  however.  The 
Wisdom  that  is  so  useful  to  man  was  created  before 
man,  before,  indeed,  the  creation  of  the  world.  When 
the  world  was  formed  she  was  in  her  childhood,  and 
while  God  formed  the  world  she  engaged  in  childish 
play,  under  His  shelter  and  to  His  delight.  So  ver 
30  should  be  rendered,  as  the  context  makes  clear 
that  'mwn  should  be  pointed  'amun,  "sheltered,"  and 
not  'amon,  "as  a  master- work  man."  And  "Wisdom" 
is  a  quality  of  man  (8  31-30),  not  a  quality  of  God. 

(2)  Indeed,  "Wisdom"  is  an  attribute  rarely  predi- 
cated of  (rod  in  the  OT   (1   K  3  2S;    Isa  10   13;    31   2; 
Jcr  10  12;    51    15;    cf  Dnl  5   11),  even  in  the  Wisdom 
writers     (Job  5   12  flf;     9  4;     Ps  104  24;     Prov  3   19). 
Partly  this  reticence  seems  to  be  duo  to  a  feeling  that 
Clod's  knowledge  is  hardly  to  be  compared  in  kind  to 
mail's,  partly  to  the  fact  that  to  the  earlier  writers  "  Wis- 
dom" had  a  profane  sound.     Later  works,  however,  have 
less  hesitation  in  this  regard  (e.g.,  Sir  42  21;   Bar  3  32, 
the  MT  pointing  and  LXX  of  Prov  8  30),  so  that  the 
personifications  became  personifications  of  a  quality  of 
Cod.     The  result  was  one  of  the  factors  that  operated 
to  produce  the  doctrine  of  the  "  Word  "  as  it  appeared  in 
the  Palestinian  form  (see  LOGOS). 

(3)  In  the  Apoc,  however,  the  most  advanced  step  is 
taken  in   Wisd.      Wisdom   is   the  only-begotten  of  God 
(7  22),  the  effulgence  of  eternal  light  (7  26;  cf  He  1  3). 
living  with  Clod  (8  3)  and  sharing  ( '.')  His  throne  (9  4). 
She  is  tin;  origin  (or  "mother")  of  all  creatures  (7   12; 
cf  8  6),  continually  active  in  penetrating  (7  24)  .ordering 
(8   1),   and  renewing    (7  27)    all   things,   while  carrying 
inspiration  to  all  holy  souls  (7  23),  esp.  to  Israel  (10   17. 
IS).     Here  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  personification 
has  ceased  to  be  rhetorical  and  has  become  real.     Wis- 
dom is  thought  of  as  a  heavenly  being,  not  so  distinctively 
personal,   perhaps,   as   an   angel,    but  none  the  less   far 
more  than  a  mere  rhetorical  term;   i.e.  she  is  a  "hypos- 
tasis." 

(4)  Most  of  Wisd's  description  is  simply  an  expansion 
of  earlier   Palestinian  concepts,  but  it   is  evident  that 
other  influence  has  been  at  work  also  and  that  that  in- 
fluence was    (/><•<•/,-.     The  writer  of    Wisd   was   touched 
genuinely  by  the  tlr  philosophy,  and  in  7  24,  at  any  rate, 
his    "Wisdom"   is   the   Ingos   spermatikus   of   the   Stoics, 
with    more     than    suspicions    of     (Ir     influence     else- 
where in  the  descriptions.     This  combination  of  Jewish 


Wisdom  Lit. 
Wisd  of  Solomon 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3092 


and  Gr  thought-  was  still  further  elaborated  by  Philo — 
and  still  further  confused.  For  Philo  endeavored  to 
operate  with  the  Wisdom  doctrine  in  its  Palestinian  form, 
the  Wisdom  doctrine  into  which  Wisd  had  already  in- 
fused some  Logos  doctrine,  and  the  Logos  doctrine  by 
itself,  without  thoroughly  understanding  the  discordant 
character  of  his  terms.  The  result  is  one,  of  the  most 
obscure  passages  in  Philo's  system.  Sometimes,  as  in 
DC  Fui/.  § !()'.»,  ch  xx,  "Wisdom  is  the  mother  of  the  Logos, 
as  God  is  its  Father  (cf  Cherub.,  §§49,  50,  ch  xiv),  while, 
again,  the  relation  can  toe  inverted  almost  in  the  same 
context-  and  the  Logos  appears  as  the  source  of  Wisdom 
(I) •  FH-I.  §!)7.  ch  xviii).  See  Locos. 

(5)  Philo's  influence  was  incalculable,  and  Wisdom,  as 
a  heavenly  power,  plays  an  almost  incredible  role  in 
the  gnostic  speculations  of  the  2d  and  3d  cents.,  the 
gnostic  work  1'ixtis  Sophia  probatoly  attaining  the  climax 
of  unreality.  The  orthodox  Fathers,  however,  naturally 
sought  Wisdom  within  the  Trinity,  and  Irenaeus  made 
an  identification  with  the  Holy  Spirit  (iy.  20,:}).  Ter- 
tullian,  on  the  other  hand,  identified  Wisdom  with  the 
Son  (probably  following  earlier  precedent )  in  Atlr.  I'rni., 
7,  and  this  identification  attained  general  acceptation. 
So  Prov  8  22-30  became  a  lums  classicus  in  the  Christ  - 
ological  controversies  (an  elatoorate  exposition  in  Atha- 
nasius,  Orut.  ii.  1(1-22),  and  persisted  as  a  dogmatic 
proof-text  until  a  very  modern  period. 

LiTKiiATriiK. — The  OT  Theologies,  particularly  those 
of  Stnend,  cd  2  (1S99),  and  Bertliolet  (1911).  For  the 
intermediate,  period,  G.I  V,  III,  ed  4  (1909),  and  l?oussct, 
Dir  H-lii/ion  des  Judentums,  ed  2  (190(1).  Special  works: 
Toy,  "Wisdom  Literature,"  Eli,  IV  (UK):};;  Meinhold, 
Die.  Weinlieit  Israel*  (190S);  Friedliinder.  drieehisehe. 
I'liiloanphic  i in  A 'I'  (1904.  to  toe  used  cautiously).  On 
Philo,  cf  esp.  Drummond,  I'ln'lo  Jtulaaix,  II,  201-1:} 
(isss).  See  also  the  arts,  on  the  various  books  and  cf 
LOGOS;  Pin  1,0  JUD.EUS. 

BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

WISDOM  LITERATURE,  lit/er-a-tflr.  See  pre- 
ceding urticle. 

WISDOM  OF  GOD  (o-oefrCa,  sophist):  Lk  11  49 
reads:  "Therefore  also  said  the  wisdom  of  God,  I 
will  send  unto  them  prophets  and  apostles;  and 
some  of  them  they  shall  kill  and  persecute."  The 
patristic  and  many  later  commentators,  on  the 
basis  of  the  parallel  in  Mt  23  34,  took  "wisdom  of 
Clod"  here  to  be  a  self-designation  of  Christ — an 
interpretation,  however,  that  is  obviously  impossible. 
Somewhat,  similar  is  the  view  (Meyer)  that  treats 
the  words  as  a  Lukan  designation  of  Christ,  with 
the  assumption  that,  Luke  here  reintroduces  Christ 
as  the  speaker  in  order  to  give  solemnity  to  the 
judgment  pronounced.  But  this  is  incredibly 
awkward  and  has  no  parallel  in  the  Lukan  use  for 
even  more  solemn  passages.  Much  simpler  is  the 
interpretation  (Hofmann,  15.  Weiss,  Plummer)  that 
regards  Christ  as  announcing  here  a  decree  formed 
by  (lod  in  the  past.  But  it  is  the  behavior  of  the 
present  generation  that-  is  in  point  (cf  Lk  13  8.9; 
20  13;  altogether  different  is  Lk  10  21).  And 
the  circumstantial  wording  of  what  follows  is  in- 
appropriate for  such  a  decree,  is  without  parallel 
in  Christ's  teaching,  and  implies  rather  a  written 
source.  In  the  OT,  however,  no  passage  exists  that 
resembles  this  (Prov  1  20-31  [so  Godet]  is  quite 
out  of  the  question).  So  many  exegetes  (Holtz- 
mann,  J.  Weiss,  Loisy,  Harnack)  find  here  a  quota- 
tion from  some  lost  source  that  Our  Lord  approved 
and  that  was  familiar  to  His  hearers.  This  is  cer- 
tainly the  most  natural  explanation.  Nor  can  it 
be  said  to  be  impossible  that  Christ  recognized 
genuine  prophetic  inspiration  in  some  writing  that 
was  meant  to  have  transitory  value  only  and  not 
to  be  preserved  for  future  generations.  Perhaps 
this  bore  the  title  "Wisdom  of  Clod"  or  represented 
"Wisdom"  as  speaking,  as  in  Prov  1  22-33. 

BTHTON*  SCOTT  EASTOX 

WISDOM  OF  JESUS.     See  Si  HACK. 

WISDOM  OF  SOLOMON,  THE: 

I.     NAME 
II.     CANONICITY 
III.     CONTENTS 

1.  The  Wisdom  Section 

2.  The  Historical  Section 
IV.     LITERARY   FORM 


VII. 

VIII. 

IX. 


X. 
XI. 

XII. 


UNITY   AND   INTEGRITY 
TEACHING 

1.  Theology 

2.  Anthropology 

3.  Deontology 

4.  Haraartiology 
,r>.   Soteriology 

(i.  Eschatology 
AIM 

AUTIIOH 

DATE 

1.  Literary 

2.  Historical 

'.'>.   Philosophical 
ORIGINAL   LANGUAGE 

I'sE     OF     \VlSDOM     II Y     C'llKISTIAN     WRITERS 

TEXT   AND    VERSIONS 

1.  Latin 

2.  Syriac 
LITERATURE 

/.  Name.  -In  the  (Ir  MSS  (H  A  X,  etc)  the  book 
is  called  "The  Wisdom  of  Solomon"  (2o<pta.  iaXa;- 
fj.Civos,  Xo/ihia  Saldmdnos,  the  form  of  the  latter 
word  varying  in  the  best  MSS).  In  the  Syr  (Pesh) 
its  title  is  "The  Book  of  the  Great  Wisdom  of 
Solomon."  Solomon  was  among  the  Jews  and  the 
early  Christians  the  patron  of  didactic,  as  David 
was  of  lyrical,  and  Moses  of  religious-legal,  lit  erat  lire, 
and  their  names  came  to  be  associated  with  literary 
compositions  with  which  they  had  nothing  to  do. 
We  read  in  the  OT  of  the  wisdom  of  Solomon  (1  K 
3  7-14;  cf  Sir  47  12-1S  [14-19]),  and  the  whole 
of  the  Book  of  Prov  is  called  by  his  name,  though 
he  is  at  most  the  author  of  but  a  part.  Solomon 
speaks  in  the  first  person  in  this  book  (chs  6-9),  as 
he  does  in  Eccl  (1  12  ff),  for  that  he  is  made  the 
speaker  until  the  close  of  ch  9  is  made  certain  by 
7  1  ff;  9  2  ff.  As  long  as  he  was  thought  to  be 
the  composer  of  this  book  it  continued  to  be  called 
''The  Wisdom  of  Solomon"  among  the  Jews  and 
the  early  Christians. 

Influenced  by  the  Gr  thought  and  style  of  the  book, 
Jerome  came  to  the  conclusion  that  Solomon  was  not 
its  author  and  he  accordingly  altered  its  title  to  "Tin; 
Hook  of  Wisdom"  (Liber  sapientiae),  and  it  is  this  desig- 
nation that  the  book  bears  in  the  Vulg  and  the  VSS 
made  from  it,  though  in  the  Protestant  tr«  (Ger.,  Kng., 
Welsh,  etc)  the  title  "The  Wisdom  of  Solomon"  is  con- 
tinued, as  these  follow  the  (ir  \'S  and  not  the  Lat. 
Luther's  title  is  "The  Wisdom  of  Solomon  to  Tyrants" 
(Die  Wrislte.it  Salomos  an  die  Ti/rannen).  Epiphanius 
and  Athanasius  quote  the  book  under  the  name  "All- 
Virtuous  Wisdom"  (Ilarapero?  icx/Ha,  PandretfiH  Sophia), 
a  title  by  which  Prov  and  Sir  are  also  known  in  tho  writ- 
ings of  some  of  tho  Fathers. 

//.  Canonicity. — In  the  MSS  and  edd  of  the  Gr 
Bible  and  in  the  Vulg,  EV,  etc,  Wisd  follows  Prov, 
Keel  and  Cant,  and  is  followed  by  Sir.  Some  of 
the  Fathers,  believing  the,  book  to  be  by  Solomon, 
thought  it  Divinely  inspired  and  therefore  canoni- 
cal; so  Hippolytus,  Cyprian,  Ambrose,  etc.  Other 
Fathers,  though  denying  the  Solomonian  author- 
ship of  the  book,  yet  accorded  it  canonical  rank;  so 
Origen,  Eusebius,  Augustine,  etc.  On  the  other 
hand  then;  were  some  in  the  early  church  who  re- 
fused to  acknowledge  the  book  as  in  any  way 
authoritative  in  matters  of  doctrine.  The  Council 
of  Trent  included  it  with  the  rest  of  the  Protestant 
Apoc  (except  1  and  2  Esd  and  Pr  Man)  in  the 
Canon,  so  that  the  Romanist  Bible  includes,  but 
the  Protestant  Bible  excludes,  it. 

///.  Contents. — The  book  is  made  up  of  two  main 
parts  so  different  as  to  suggest  difference  of  author- 
ship. (1)  The  wisdom  section  (1  1—11  4):  In  this 
part  the  writer  describes  and  commends  Wisdom, 
warning  his  readers  against  neglecting  it.  (2)  The 
historical  section  (11  5—19  22). 

(1)  Righteousness  (i.e.  Wisdom  in  operation)  leads 
to  immortality,  unrighteousness  to  death  (ch  1). 

(2)  Contrasted  fortunes  of  the  wise  (righteous)  and 
•unwise  (ungodly)    (2  1—6  21).— (a)  Sensual  pleas- 
ures issue  in  death  while  God   intended   all   men 
to  live  spiritually   (ch  2);    (6)  the  lot  of  the  wise 
(righteous)  is  a  happy  one.     Their  sufferings  are 


3093 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Wisdom  Lit. 
Wisd  of  Solomon 


disciplinary  ;iml  remedial;   they  shall  live  forever 
and   reign   hereafter    over    the    nations    (Gentiles) 
(3  1  -<));    00  hut  the  lot,  of  the  wicked 
1.  The  and   of   their   children   is  a   miserable 

Wisdom  one;  t  he  wise  (righteous)  shall  be  happy 
Section,  though  childless  (3  10-19);  (d)  virtu- 
1:1  —  11:4  ous  childlessness  secures  immortality 
before  guilty  parenthood  (4  1-6);  00 
though  the  wise  (righteous)  die  early,  yet  they  have 
rest  in  their  death,  and  accomplish  their  life  mission 
in  the  allot  ted  time  (cf  Enoch)  (4  7-14);  (/)  the  un- 
godly (unwise)  shall  come  to  a  wretched  end:  then 
they  shall  see  and  envy  the  prosperity  of  the  right- 
eous. Though  they  shall  pass  tracelessly  away,  the 
righteous  shall  rejoice  in  a  life  that  is  endless  (4 
If)  —  5  23);  (c/)  kings  ought  therefore  to  rule  accord- 
ing to  Wisdom  and  thus  attain  to  immortality 
(6  1-21). 

(3)  Wisdom.  —  Speaking  in  the  name  of  Solomon, 
the  writer  praises  Wisdom  and  commends  it  to 
kings  ("judges"  =  "rulers"  in  6  1,  is  but  a  synonym) 
(6  1  —  11  4).  (d)  All  men  come  into  the  world 
with  the  same  universal  need  of  Wisdom  which  leads 
to  true  kingship  and  immortality  (6  1-25);  (/>)  I 
(Solomon)  sought  Wisdom  as  the  main  tiling  and  in 
obtaining  it  had  along  with  it  every  good  thing,  in- 
cluding knowledge  of  every  kind  (7  1  —  8  21); 
(r)  the  prayer  which  Solomon  offered  for  Wisdom 
(9  1-18);  O/)  how  Wisdom  defended  the  heroes  of 
Heb  history,  from  the  first  man,  Adam,  to  the  Israel- 
ites at  the  Red  Sea  and  in  the  wilderness  (10  1  — 

11  4). 

In  this  second  part  of  the  book  Solomon  110  longer 
speaks  in  the  lirst  person  (as  in  chs  6-9).  nor  is  Wisdom 
once  mentioned  or  for  certain  referred  to, 
though  most  writers  see  in  this  part  the 
attempt  of  the  author  of  1  1  —  11  4  to 
exemplify  in  concrete  instances  the  work- 
m«  °f  that  Wisdom  of  which  in  the  first 
part  he  describes  the  nature  and  issues. 

(i:)  Contrasted  treatment  by  God  (not 
Wisdom)  of   the  Israelites  and  their  foes 
(11  5  —  12).     By  what  things  their  foes  were  punished 
they  were  benefited  (11  5).     (a)  The  Egyptians  (11  5  — 

12  2):    Water  a  boon  to  Israel,  a  bane  to  Egypt  (11  fi- 
ll).    The  Egyptians  punished  by  the,  animals  they  wor- 
shipped   (11   15-20),   though  there  was  a  relenting  on 
God  s  part  that  sinners  might  repent  (11  21  —  12  2).     (b) 
The   Oanaanites    (12  3-27):    The   abominations   of   the 
worship  and  tho  Divine  punishment  with  the  lessons  this 
last  teaches. 

(2)  Idolatry  described   and  condemned    (chs  13-15). 
These  chapters  form  a  unity  in  themselves,  a  digression 
from  the  historical  survey  closed  with  12  27  and  con- 
tinued in  16  1  —  19-     The  digression  may  of  course  be 
due  to  the  allusion  in  11  5  —  12  to  the  sins  of  the  Egyp- 
tians and  Canaanites.     Kinds  of  idolatry:    (a)   Nature- 
worship    (fire,   wind,   air,   water,   heavenly  bodies),   due 
often  to  sincere  desire  to  find  out  God   (13   1-9);     (6) 
worship  of  idols  in  animal  form,  a  much  grosser  sin  (13 
10-19)  ;   (c)  God's  indignation  against  all  forms  of  idolatry 
(14  1-11);      (d)    origin    of    image-worship    (14  15-21); 
the  father  mourning  for  his  deceased  son  makes  an  image 
of  him  and  then  worships  it   (14   15);    rulers  are  often 
flattered  and  then  deified  (14  16  f)  ;    artists  often  make 
images  so  attractive  as  to  tempt  men  to  regard  them  as 
gods  (14  18-21);    (c)  immoral  results  of  idolatry:    "The 
worship  of  idols  ....  a  beginning  and  cause  and  end 
of  every  evil"    (ver  27)   (14  22-31);    (/)  Israel  was  free 
from  idolatry  and  in  consequence  enjoyed  the   Divine 
favor  (15  1-5);    (a)  the  folly  of  idolatry:   the  image  man 
made  less  capable  than  man  its  maker  and  worshipper; 
the  Egyptians  tho  worst  offenders  (15  6-19). 

(3)  In  five  different  respects  the  fortunes  of  Egypt  and 
Israel  in  the  past  are  contrasted,  Nature  using  similar 
means  to  punish  the  Egyptians  and  to  reward  the  Israel- 
ites   (16  —  19  22),   viz.   in  respect  of  the  following:     (a) 
animals,  quail  (vs  1-4)  and  fiery  serpents  (vs  5-14)  (16 
1-14);    (b)  fire  and  water,  heat  and  cold  (16   15-29);    (r) 
light  and  darkness  (17   1—18  4);    (d)  death  (18  5-25); 
(e)  passage  of  the  Red  Sea  (19  1-22). 

IV.  Literary  Form.  —  There  is  not  so  much  mani- 
fest poetry  in  this  book  as  in  Sir,  though  there  is  a 
large  amount  of  genuine  poetry  characterized  by 
parallelism,  but  not  by  meter  in  the  ordinary  sense 
of  the  term.  In  parts  of  the  book,  which  must  be 
pronounced  prose,  parallelism  is  nevertheless  often 
found  (see  10  1  ff).  There  are  far  fewer  epigram- 


n Tha 
„.  . 
Historical 

Section 
11    ,-  _  -in. 
11.  0     L\3. 


matic  sentences  in  Wisd  than  in  Sir,  but  on  the 
other  hand  there;  is  a  far  greater  number  of  other 
rhetorical  devices,  assonances  (1  10;  4  2;  6  15; 
7  13),  alliterations  (2  23;  6  12. IS;  611;  12  15), 
antitheses  (13  ISf),  etc.  See  for  details  iS'/jfWa.r'.s 
Apnc  (Farrar),  I,  404  if. 

V.  Unity  and  Integrity. — Nearly  all  writers  on 
the  book  believe  it  to  be  one  homogeneous  whole, 
the  work  of  one  mind.     They  point  for  proof  to  the 
fact  that  the  whole  book  is  a  consistent  whole;  di- 
rected against  the  two  evils,  apostasy  and  idolatry; 
that  the  language  is  from  beginning  to  end  uniform, 
such  as  one  writer  would  be  likely  to  employ. 

For  a  statement,  of  contrary  views  and  a  reply  to  them 
see  the  Co  mm.  of  Grimm,  pp.  9-15.  Until  about  the 
middle  of  the  18th  cent,  no  doubt  had  been  expressed 
as  regards  the  unity  of  the  book.  (1;  Houhigant  (Notae 
critical'  in  universos  XT  lihrux.  Mil,  1U9)  divided  tin; 
book  into  two  parts:  chs  1-9  written  by  Solomon  in  Heb, 
chs  10-19  composed  in  Gr  at  a  later  time,  perhaps  by  tin; 
tr  into  Gr  of  chs  1-9.  Against  the  Solomonian  author- 
ship see  VIII,  below,  and  against  a  Heb  original  sec  X, 
below.  Doederlein  adopted  Houbigant's  division  of  the 
book,  denying,  however,  the  Solomonian  authorship. 
(2)  Eiehhorn  (Einleitung  in  das  AT,  142  ff)  divided  the 
book  also  into  two  parts:  chs  1-11  and  ll  2  19  He 
held  that  the  whole  was  composed  in  Gr  by  two  different 
writers  or  by  the  same  writer  at  different  times.  (3; 
Nachtigal  (Das  Buch  der  Wcixheit,  1799)  went  much 
farther,  holding  that  the;  book  is  nothing  more  than  an 
anthology,  but  he  has  had  no  followers  in  this.  (4) 
BretschEeider  (I)c  lib.  Sni>.,  ls()4)  ascribes  the  book  to 
three  principal  authors  and  to  a  final  editor.  1 — 6  8  was 
composed  in  Heb  in  the  time  of  Antiochus  Epiphanes  (d. 
104  B(v)  by  a  Palestinian  Jew,  though  it  is  an  excerpt 
from  a  larger  work;  6  9 — 10  is  the  work  of  an  Alexan- 
drian Jew,  a  contemporary  of  Our  Lord;  eh  11  was  in- 
serted by  the  final  editor  as  seemingly  necessary  to  con- 
nect parts  2  and  3;  chs  12-19  were'  written  about  the 
same  time  by  a  Jewish  partisan  of  slender  education  and 
narrow  sympathies. 

Summary. — -Perhaps,  on  the  whole,  the  argu- 
ments in  favor  of  the  unity  of  the  book  outweigh 
those  against  it.  But  the  evidence  is  by  no  means 
decisive.  The  Wisdom  section  (1  1 — 11  4)  is  a  much 
finer  bit  of  writing  than  the  rest  of  the  book,  and  it 
bears  the  general  characteristics  of  the  Wisdom 
literature.  Yet  even  within  this  larger  unity  chs 
6-9  stand  out  from  the  rest,  since  only  in  them  is 
Solomon  made  to  speak  in  the  first  person  (cf  Eccl 
1  12  ff);  but  these  four  chapters  agree  with  the  rest 
of  the  Wisdom  section  in  other  respects.  Within 
the  historical  section  (11  5 — 19  22)  chs  13-15  stand 
together  as  if  a  separate  treatise  on  idolatry  (see 
III,  above),  though  if  originally  independent  an 
editor  has  logically  joined  ch  15  to  ch  12;  cf  "for" 
(ydp,  gar),  "etc"  (13  1).  Indeed  the  book  in  its 
present  form  is  made  at  least  externally  one,  though 
it  is  not  absolutely  certain  whether  or  not  this 
external  unity  is  due  to  editorial  revision.  Some 
scholars  have  maintained  that  the  book  as  it  stands 
is  a  torso  (so  Eiehhorn,  etc).  Calmet  infers  this 
from  the  fact  that  the  historical  sketch  closes  with 
the  entrance  of  the  Israelites  into  Canaan.  Others 
say  that  the  writer's  .sketch  was  cut  short  by  some 
unforeseen  event  (Grot ins,  Eiehhorn),  or  that  the 
remainder  of  the  once  complete  work  has  been  lost 
in  transmission  (Heydenreich) .  But  on  the  other 
hand  it  must  be  remembered  that  the  writer's  record 
is  limited  by  his  purpose,  and  that  the  history  of  the 
Egyptians  supplies  an  admirable  and  adequate 
illustration  of  the  wickedness  and  calamitous  results 
of  unfaithfulness  to  God  and  His  law. 

VI.  Teaching. — In  the  treatment  of  this  section 
it  is  assumed  with  some  hesitation  that  the  book  is 
throughout  the  work  of  one  man.     The  following 
is  a  brief  statement  of  the  teaching  of  this  book  con- 
cerning   theology,    anthropology,    deontology,    ha- 
martiology,  soteriology,  and  eschatology. 

Theology  in  the  strict  sense,  i.e.  the  doctrine  about 
God:  God  is  incomparably  powerful  (11  21  f),  omni- 
present (1  7;  12  1)  and  all-loving  (11  24).  He 
made  the  world  out  of  formless  matter  (11  17,  the 


Wisd  of  Solomon      THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3004 


doctrine  of  the  Alexandrian  Judaism).  He  did  not 
create  the  \vorll  out  of  nothing  as  the  OT  (Gen  1 

1  IT)  and  even  Sir  teach  (see  SIUACH, 
1.  Theol-  BOOK  OF,  IV,  1).  The  author's  highest 
ogy  conception  of  creation  is  the  conversion 

of  chaos  into  cosmos.  It  is  the  order 
and  beauty  of  the  universe  that  amaze  the  writer, 
not  the  stupendous  power  required  to  make  such  a 
universe  out  of  nothing  (11  20;  13  3).  Though 
God  is  said  to  be  just  (12  15),  kind  (1  13;  11  17-20; 
12  13-10;  15  1;  16  7),  and  is  even  addressed  as 
Father  (14  3),  yet  He;  is  in  a  unique  sense  the 
Favorer  and  Protector  of  Israel  (16  2;  18  8;  19 
22j;  yet  according  to  12  2-20  even  the  calamities 
He  heaps  up  upon  the  foes  of  Israel  were  designed 
to  lead  them  to  repentance  (12  2-20),  though  in 
ctis  11  f  we  are  clearly  taught  that  while  the  suffer- 
ings of  the  Israelites  were  remedial,  those  of  their 
enemies  wen;  purely  penal.  The  concept  ion  of  God. 
in  Wisd  agrees  on  t  lie  whole  with  that  of  Alexandrian 
.Judaism  (c  100  BC,>;  i.e.  it  lays  principal  stress  on 
His  transcendence,  His  infinite  aloofness  from  man 
and  the  material  world.  We  have  therefore  in  this 
book  the  beginning  of  t  he  doctrine  of  intermediaries 
which  issued  in  PhilVs  I'oiwrx,  the  media  through 
which  the  Absolute  One  comes  into  definite  relation 
with  men. 

(1)  Spirit  of  the.   Lord.— In  Wisd  as  in  the  later 
books  of  the  OT  (exilic  and  post-exilic),  the  expres- 
sion ''the  Spirit  of  the  Lord"  denotes  the  person  of 
God.     What  God  does  is  done  by  the  Spirit.     Thus 
it  is  His  Spirit  that  fills  and  sustains  the  world,  that 
observes  all  human  actions  (1  7f),  that  is  present 
everywhere  (12  1).     Wisdom  does  not  hypost  at  i/e 
"the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,"  making  it  an  intermediary 
between   God  and   His  creatures,   but   the  way   is 
prepared  for  tliis  step. 

(2)  Wiwlom. — Much  that  is  said  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  in  this  book  is  said  of  Wisdom,  but  much 
more,    and    there   is    a   much   closer  approach   to 
hypostatization  in  the  case  of   Wisdom.     At  the 
creation  of  the  world  Wisdom  was  with  God    (cf 
Prov  8  22-31),    sat    by    His    throne,    knew    His 
thoughts  and  was  His  associate  (8  3;   9  4.1)),  made 
all  things,  taught  Solomon  the  Wisdom  for  which 
he  prayed   (7  22);    all  powerful,  seeing  all  things 
(7  23),'  pervading  all  things   (7  24),   an   effluence 
of  the  glory  of  the  Almighty  (7  25);    she  teaches 
sobriety,  understanding, righteousness  and  courage 
(8  7,   the  four  cardinal  virtues  of  the  Stoic  plii- 
losophy).     For  detailed  account  of  tJie  conception 
of  Wisdom  in  this  book  see  WISDOM. 

(3)  The  Lor/08. — In  Philo  the  Logos  is  the  inter- 
mediary power  next  to  Deity,  but  in  Wisd  the  term 
keeps  to  the  OT  sense,  "word,"  that  by  which  God 
addresses  men.     It  never  means  more,  though  some 
hold  (Gfrorer,  Philo,  etc, I,  225  ff)  that  in  Wisd  9 
If;    12  9;    16  12;    18  22,  Logos  has  the  technical 
sense  which  it  bears  in  Philo;   but  a  careful  exam- 
ination of  the  passages  shows  that  nothing  more 
than    ''word"    is    meant    (see    Locos).     The   only 
other  superhuman  beings  mentioned  in  the  book  are 
the  gods  of  the  Gentiles  which  are  distinctly  de- 
clared to  be  nonentities,  the  product  of  man's  folly 
(14  13  f),  and  the  devil  who  is,  however,  but  once 
referred  to  as  identical  with  the  serpent  of  Gen  3. 
The  book  does  not  once  speak  of  a  Canon  of  Scrip- 
ture or  of  any  Divine  revelation  to  man  in  written 
form,  though  it  often  quotes  from  the  Pent  and 
occasionally  from    Isa    and    Pss,   never,   however, 
naming  them.     Wisd  is  thus  much  more  universal- 
istic  and  in  harmony  with  Wisdom  literature  than 
Sir,   which  identifies  Wisd  with  the  Law  and  the 
Prophets  and  has  other  distinctly  Jewish  features. 

In  its  psychology  Wisd  follows  the  dichotomy  of 
Platonism.  Man  has  but  two  parts,  soul  and  bodv 
(1  4;  8  19  f;  9  15),  the  word  soul  tyvxt,  psuche) 


including  the  reason  (vovs,  nous)  and  the  spirit 
(irvfv/j.a.,  pneumn).  Wisd  15  1 1  is  the  only  passage 
which  seems  to  teach  the  doctrine  of 
2.  Anthro-  the  trichotomy  of  man,  but  in  reality 
pology  it  does  nothing  of  t  he  kind,  for  the  par- 

allelism shows  that  by  "soul"  and 
"spirit"  the  same  thing  is  meant.  Philo  teaches  the 
same  doctrine  (see  Drurnmond,  Philo,  etc,  1,  310  ff). 
Man's  soul  is  breathed  into  the  body  (15  11;  cf 
Gen  2  7)  and  taken  back  again  by  God  (15  8). 
TJie  writer  adopts  the  Platonic  theory  of  the  pre- 
cxistence  of  souls  (8  20;  cf  15  8.11.16),  which  in- 
volves the  belief  in  a  kind  of  predestination,  for 
the  previous  doings  of  the  soul  determine  the  kind 
of  body  into  which  it  enters.  Solomon's  soul,  being 
good,  entered  an  undefiled  body  (8  20).  R.  II. 
Charles  (Eschatology,  etc,  254  f)  is  hardly  correct 
when  he  says  that  according  to  Wisd  (1  4;  9  15, 
etc)  matter  is  inherently  sinful.  This  doctrine  was 
definitely  taught  by  Philo,  who  accepted  Heraclitus' 
epigram,  criD^a  arj.ua,  soina  scma,  "The  bodv  is  a 
tomb."  So  it  is  said  (12  10;  13  1)  that  man  is  by 
nature  evil,  his  wickedness  being  inborn.  But  if 
he  sins  it  is  his  own  affair,  for  he  is  free  (1  1(5;  5 
6.13).  The  writer  borrows  two  words  from  Gr 
poetry  and  philosophy  which  appear  to  involve  a 
negation  of  human  freedom,  viz.  dvdjKt],  andgkc, 
"necessity,"  and  SIKT],  dike,  "justice,"  "avenging 
justice."  The  first  blinds  the  eyes  of  the  ungodly 
(17  17),  but  tJie  blindness  is  judicial,  the  result  of  a 
course  of  evil  (see  19  1-5).  The  second  term  is 
used  in  Gr  philosophy  in  the  sense  of  nemesis,  and 
it  has  that  sense  in  Wisd  1  8,  etc.  But  throughout 
tliis  boolc  it  is  assumed  that  punishment  for  sin  is 
deserved,  since  man  is  free.  The  author  of  Wisd 
believes  in  a  twofold  division  into  good  (wise)  and 
bad  (ungodly),  and,  unlike  tJie  writers  of  tlie  later 
parts  of  the  OT,  he  holds  it  possible  for  a  person  to 
pass  from  one  class  into  another.  But  does  not 
God,  according  to  parts  of  Wisd,  as  of  the  OT, 
appear  to  show  undue  favoritism  to  Israel  and 
neglect  of  other  people?  Thus  Israel  is  "God's 
Son"  (18  13),  His  children  (sons,  12  19.21;  16 
10.20),  His  sons  and  daughters  (9  7).  They  are 
His  holy  and  elect  ones  (3  9;  4  15;  and  esp.  10  17; 
18  1.5).  But  the  Israelites  were  treated  as  they 
were,  not  because  they  were  Israelites,  but  because 
tliey  were  morally  J>etter  than  the  nations  around 
(see  Drummond,  op.  cit.,  II,  207  ff). 

Under  the  term  "deontology"  hero,  religious  and  ethi- 
cal practice  is  included.  (1)  As  might  ho  expected  in  a 

Wisdom  hook,  little,  importance  is  attached 
3  Deon-  to  tne  Law  of  Moses  and  its  requirements. 

Though  historical  allusions  are  made  to 
tology  the  offering  of  sacrifices,  the  singing  of 

psalms  and  the  taking  upon  themselves 
of  the  obligation  of  the  covenant  of  the  Law  (18  9); 
though,  moreover,  reference  is  made  to  the  offering  of 
incense  hy  Aaron  (18  21),  and  Solomon  is  made  to  utter 
the  words  "temple,"  "altar,"  "tabernacle"  (9  8),  yet 
in  other  respects  nothing  is  said  of  the  temple  and  its 
feasts,  of  the  priesthood,  of  sacrifice,  or  of  the  laws  of 
clean  and  unclean.  Yet  the  duty  of  worshipping  the 
one  true  God  and  Him  only  and  the  evil  results  of  wor- 
shipping idols  are  strongly  and  constantly  insisted  upon, 
esp.  in  the  second  or  historical  part  of  the  hook  (11  5  to 
end).  (2)  The  cardinal  virtues  inculcated  are  those  of 
the  Stoic  philosophy,  viz.  prudence  (a-uxfrpoa-vvri,  xiii>lim- 
stine),  common-sense  (^poi^o-is,  phroncsin),  justice  (Smruo- 
o-ui'T),  dikaiosune)  and  courage  (av&pfia,  andrela),  showing 
that  the  writer  was  influenced  hy  the  philosophy  of  the 
C!  reeks. 

As  a  historical  fact,  the  writer  adopts  the  account 
in  Gen  3  of  the  entrance  of  sin  into  the  world.  "By 

the  envy  of  the  devil  death  [i.e.  as  the 
4.  Hamar-  connection  proves,  spiritual  death] 
tiology  entered  into  the  world"  (2  24).  In 

14  27,  however,  sin  is  made  to  have 
its  root  in  idolatry,  meaning  perhaps  that  all  sin 
consists  in  not  giving  proper  heed  to  the  one  true 
God,  and  that  the  moral  monstrosities  of  his  time 
were  outgrowths  of  idolatrous  worship.  The  free- 


30«.»f> 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA      Wisd  of  Solomon 


doin  of  the  will  is  taught  explicitly  or  implicitly 
throughout  the  book  (see  above  VI,  2). 

The   book  is  silent  as  to  a  Messiah   who   shall 

deliver  His  people.     It  is  Wisdom  that  saves  man: 

"Because  of  her  I  shall  have  innnor- 

5.  Soteri-      tality"    (8  13);     immortality    lies    in 
ology  kinship  to  Wisdom  (8  17);  all  who  give 

heed  to  the  commands  of  Wisdom 
have  t  he  assurance  of  incorruption,  and  incorrupt  ion 
brings  men  near  to  God  (6  18  f).  The  knowledge 
of  Ciod's  power  is  the  root  of  immortality  (15  2). 

The  doctrine  of  individual  immort  ality  is  explicit  ly 

taught  in  this  book.     Man  (  =  all  men)  was  created 

for  incorruption  (2  23;    6  19;    12  1). 

6.  Escha-      The  righteous  have  the  full  hope  of 
tology  immortality   (3  4)  and  shall  live  for- 
ever (5  1.1).     When  the  wicked  die  they 

have  no  hope  (3  18),  since  they  suffer  for  their  sins  in 
t  his  present  world  as  well  as  in  that  which  is  to  come 
(3  10. IS).  The  doctrine  of  a  resurrection  of  the 
body  is  not  taught.  If  the  author  accepted  Philo's 
doctrine  of  the  inherent  sinfulness  of  matter  (see 
above  VI,  2),  as  R.  II.  Charles  holds,  he  could  not 
believe  in  a  bodily  resurrection.  After  death  there 
is  to  be  a  day  of  decision  (6idyv<a<ris,  diagnosis,  the 
word  used  in  Acts  25  21;  see  3  IS);  there  will  bo 
an  examination  (^£eVa<ns,  cxctasis)  into  the  counsels 
of  the  ungodly.  The  sins  of  the  wicked  shall  be 
reckoned  up  (4  20),  but  the  righteous  man  shall 
stand  in  great  boldness  before  the  face  of  them  that 
afflicted  him  (5  1).  The  teaching  of  the  book  as 
to  the  future  of  the  righteous  does  not  seem  to  bo 
consistent.  According  to  3  1  ff ,  the  righteous  pass 
at  death  immediately  into  the  bliss  of  God;  but 
the  teaching  of  4  20  f  is  that  the  wicked  and  the 
righteous  shall  be  assembled  in  one  place  to  receive 
their  sentence. 

VII.  Aim. — The  writer's  purpose  appears  to  have 
been  to  recommend  to  his  fellow-countrymen  in 
Alexandria  the  claims  of  religion  under  the  names 
of  Wisdom,  Righteousness,  etc,  and  to  warn  them 
against  falling  into  the  idolatry  of  the  Egyptians. 
In  addition  to  glorifying  Wisdom,  he  gives  an  ironi- 
cal account  of  the  rise  of  idolatry,  and  he  uses 
strong  language  in  pointing  out  the  disastrous  con- 
sequences in  this  world  and  the  next  of  a  life  away 
from  the  true  God  (see  above,  III).     The  book  is 
ostensibly  addressed  to  rulers,  but  they  are  men- 
tioned only  in  6  1-11.20-25,  and  the  appeal  of  the 
book  is  to  men  as  such.     In  addressing  rulers  the 
aut hor  uses  a  rhetorical  device.     It  might  be  argued 
that  if  rulers  with  their  superior  advantages  need 
such  exhortations  and  warnings,  how  much  more 
ordinary  men! 

Plumptre  (Ecclesiastes,  70)  and  Siegfried  (HDB, 
IV,  928)  contend  that  the  Solomon  of  this  book  is 
made  to  answer  the  Solomon  of  Eccl.  But  the 
author  does  not  show  any  acquaintance  with  Eccl, 
and  it  is  hardly  likely  that  this  last  book  was  known 
at  the  time  in  Alexandria,  for  though  composed 
about  200  BC,  it  was  not  put  into  Gr  for  a  long  time 
afterward.  Besides,  there  is  nothing  about  idol- 
atry in  Eccl.  The  conclusion  reached  in  the  genu- 
ine parts  of  this  last  book  is  a  counsel  of  despair: 
"All  is  vanity."  A  reply  to  that  book  would  seek 
to  show  that  life  is  worth  living  for  the  sake  of  the 
present  and  the  future.  The  Book  of  Wisd  denoun- 
ces idolatry  in  the  most  scathing  language:  how  can 
this  and  the  like  be  a  polemic  against  Eccl? 

VIII.  Author. — The  author  was  an  Alexandrian 
Jew,  well  read  in  the  LXX  whose  phrases  he  often 
uses,  fairly  acquainted  with  Gr  philosophy  as  taught 
at  Alexandria  and   also  with  physical  science  as 
known  at  the  lime  (see  7  17-20;    8  8).     He  was 
beyond  all  doubt  a  Jew,  for  the  views  he  advocates 
are  those  of  an  enlightened  but  strong  Judaism; 
his  interests  are  even  narrowly  Jewish  (note  the 


fiercely  anti-gentile  sentiments  of  11  10-13.17-23), 
and  his  style  is  largely  tinged  by  the  vocabulary  and 
the  phraseology  of  the  Gr  VS  of  the  I  lob  Scriptures. 
That  lie  was  an  Alexandrian  or  at  least  an  Egyp 
Jew  is  equally  probable.  No  Palestinian  could 
have  written  the  language  of  this  work  with  its 
rhetorical  devices  (see  above,  IV),  or  have  dis- 
played the  acquaintance  which  the  book  reveals 
with  Gr  philosophy  as  modified  by  Jewish-Alexan- 
drian thought. 

Other  views. — Those  include:  (1)  that  Solomon  is  the 
author:  see  above,  II.  No  modern  scholar  takes  this 
view  seriously,  though  singularly  enough  it  has  been 
revived  by  IX  S.  Margoliouth;  C2)  that  Zerubbabel  is 
the  author  (J.  M.  Faber);  (:•$)  that  the  author  was  one 
of  the  translators  of  the,  LXX;  (4)  that  the  author  be- 
longed to  the,  Therapetitae :  so  (Jfrorer  (rhilo,  II,  2(>r>) 
Dahne  (rhilo,  II,  270);  cf  Jost  ((!cxc.hi,-kte  <!<•*  Ji»ia- 
ismus,  I,  :*7S).  This  has  been  inferred  from  16  2S,  the 
Therapoutae  being,  it  is  said,  a  Jewish  sect  which,  like  the 
Zarathustrians,  worshipped  toward  the  rising  sun.  But 
we  know  very  little  about  this  sect,  and  there  is  no  de- 
cisive evidence  that  it  ever  existed.  If,  however,  Kuse- 
bius  (HE,  II,  17)  is  right  in  saying  that  Philo's  Tliera- 
peut  ao  were  Christians  (the  earliest  Christian  sect  of  Alex- 
andria), it  is  clear  that  no  member  of  this  sect  wrote;  \Yisd, 
for  the  book  is  wholly  free  from  Christian  influence;  (~>) 
that  lien  Sira  is  the  author  (Augustine);  (0)  that  Apollos 
is  the  author:  SO  Noack  (Der  L'rmirtina  des  ChrisUn- 
tltJiin*,  I,  222);  Plumptre  (Expos,  I,  329  it,  409  if);  see 
summary  of  grounds  in  Speaker's  Apuc  (Farrar),  1, 
41:5  If;  but  the  author  must  have  been  a  Jew  and  he 
wrote  too  early  to  allow  of  this  hypothesis;  (7)  that 
Philo  is  the  author:  thus  Jerome  writes  (J'racf.  in  lib. 
>bW.):  Nonnulli  scriptorum  hunc  esse  Judaci  Philnnis 
aflirmant.  This  view  was  supported  by  Luther  and  other 
scholars;  cf  the  Muratorian  Fragment  (in  Zahn's  text) 
in  XI,  below.  But  the  teaching  of  this  book  repre- 
sents an  earlier  stage  of  Alexandrian  Jewish  specula- 
tion than  that  found  in  Philo's  works,  and  the  allegorical 
method  of  interpretation  so  rampant  in  the  latter  is 
almost  wholly  absent  from  Wisd.  (8)  It  has  been  held 
by  some  (Kirschbaum,  Weisse,  etc)  that  whoever  the 
author  was  he  must  have  been  a  Christian,  but  the  whole, 
trend  arid  spirit  of  the  book  prove  the  contrary. 

IX.  Date. — The  book  was  probably  composed 
about  120-100  BC.  The  evidence  is  literary,  his- 
torical and  philosophical, 

The  book  must  have  been  written  after  the  LXX 

VS  of  the  Pent  and  Isa  had  been  made,  since  the 

author  has  evidently  used  this  VS  of 

1.  Literary    both  books  and  perhaps  of  the  Pss  as 

well  (cf  3  1  and  Ps  31  f>[6];  and  also 
15  15  f  and  Ps  115  4-7  [  =  Ps  135  15-18]).  Now 
we  know  from  Sir  (Prol.)  that  the  LXX  of  the  Pent, 
the  Prophets  and  of  at  least  a  port  ion  of  the  Writings 
(Ilagiographa)  was  completed  by  132  BC,  when  the 
younger  Siracide  finished  his  tr  of  Sir  (see  SIHACH, 
BOOK  OF,  VIII).  It  may  therefore  be  inferred  that 
Wisd  was  written  after  132  BC.  Moreover,  in  4  1 
the  author  shows  an  acquaintance  with  Sir  16  1-4  in 
Gr,  for  the  pseudo-Solomon  does  not  seem  to  have 
known  Heb,  or  he  would  somet  imcs  at  least  have 
quoted  from  the  Heb  text.  This  confirms  the  con- 
clusion drawn  from  the  use  of  the  LXX  that  this 
book  is  at  least  as  late  as,  say,  130  BC,  and  almost 
certainly  later.  The  book  was  composed  earlier 
than  any  of  the  NT  writings,  or  some  of  the  latter 
would  have  been  quoted  or  referred  to.  Moreover, 
it  may  be  assumed  that  the  Gr  Canon  was  com- 
plete in  the  time  of  Our  Lord,  and  thus  included 
Wisd  as  well  as  the  rest  of  the  OT  Apoc.  But  sec 
International  Journal  of  Apocrypha,  October,  1913, 
p.  77,  art.  by  the  present  writer.  It  must  have 
taken  a  long  time  after  writing  for  the  book  to  gain 
the  respect  which  secured  its  canonization.  A  date 
100  BC  agrees  with  all  the  facts. 

Wisd  3  1;  5  1;  6  5-9  imply  that  at  the  time  of 

writing  the  Jews  addressed  were  suffering  under  the 

lash  of  persecution,  and  we  have  the 

2.  His-  resulting  feeling  of  animosity  against 
torical  the  Egyptians,  the  persecuting  power, 

expressed  in  11  10-19.  Now  we  know 
that  the  early  Ptolemies  treated  the  Jews  with  con- 
sideration, and  Ptolemy  VII  (Physcon,  145-117  BC) 


Wisd  of  Solomon 
Witch,  Witchcraft 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3096 


was  Iho  first  to  adopt  ;i  contrary  policy  toward  the 
, lews  of  Egypt,  owing  to  the  support  they  had  given 
to  Cleopatra.  Jos  (CAp,  II,  />)  gives  an  account  of 
the  vengeance  which  this  king  wreaked  upon  the 
Jews  of  Alexandria  at  this  time.  Nevertheless,  the 
literary  manner  and  the  restrained  spirit  with  which 
these  matters  are  referred  to  show  that  the  writer  is 
describing  a  state  of  things  which  belongs  to  the 
past,  though  to  a  recent  past.  A  date  about  100 
BC  would  admirably  suit,  the  situation  of  the  author 
at  t  he  t  hue  of  composit  ion. 

The  teaching  of  the  book  (see  above,  VI)  belongs 
to  that  stage  in  UK;  development  of  Alexandrian 

Judaism  which  existed  about  100  BC. 
3.  Philo-  We  have  not  in  this  book  the  allegori- 
sophical  nation  characteristic  of  Philo  (b.  20 

BC,  d.  -JO  AD),  nor  had  his  Logos- 
doctrine  as  yet  become  a  part  of  the  creed  of  Alex- 
andrian Jews. 

X.  Original  Language. — Scholars  are  practically 
agreed  that   the  book  was  composed  in  Cr.     I).  S. 
Margoliouth   attempted    to   prove   a    lleb   original 
(.//iMX,    1SOO,  2t>3-<>7;    see  reply  by  Freudenthal, 
JQIf,  III,  722-f>3),  but  the  evidence  he  offers  has 
convinced  nobody. 

(1)  The  Or  of  Wisd  is  free,  spontaneous  and  idiomatic. 
Tin- re,  are  a  few  Hebraisms,  but  only  such  as  character- 
ize 1 1  el  (Jr  in  general;  Wisd  is  very  different  in  this  from 
Sir  which  abounds  with  Hebraisms,  due  no  doubt  to  tr 
from  a  Heb  original.  (2)  The  rhetorical  devices  so  com- 
mon in  the  dr  of  the  book  can  be  due  only  to  the  original 
text;  they  could  hardly  occur  in  such  profusion  in  a  tr. 
In  addition  to  those  mentioned  above  in  IV,  note  the  (ir 
rhetorical  figures  chiasmus  (1  1  4  S;  3  15)  and  xoriti-s 
(6  7  -20).  (3)  The  tr  of  Sir  Into  Hob  before  the  discovery 
of  the  Heb  fragments  had  been  often  attempted  and  found 
comparatively  easy;  but  it  is  very  ditlicult  to  put  Wisd 
into  lleb  because  the  style  is  so  thoroughly  (I  reek.  (4)  No 
trace  of  a  Heb  original  has  thus  far  been  found.  What 
Nachmanides  saw  was  not  the  original  Heb,  but  a  tr  in 
Heb  from  the  original  text.  Jerome  (I'rmf.  in  Hi/.  Snl.) 
says  that  though  he  had  himself  seen  .Sir  in  Heb,  a  Heb 
text  of  Wisd  was  not  to  be  found. 

XI.  Use  of   Wisd  by  Christian  Writers. — It   has   been 
thought  that  the  following  parts  of  the  XT  have  been 
influenced  by  Wisd:    Lk  2  7  (cf  Wisd  7  4);   Lk  12  20  (cf 
Wisd  15  S);'  l>k  9  31   (cf  Wisd  3  2);    Lk  19  44  (cf  Wisd 
3  7i.     The  "  Logos  "-doctrine  of  John  (see  Jn  1  1,  etc) 
has  certainly  a  connection  with  the  doctrine  of  Wisdom 
in  Wisd   (see   (iregg,   Comm.,livft).      (irafe   (Theoloyisrhc 
Abhandlungen,  Freiburg  in  B.,  1892)  endeavors  to  prove; 
that  Paul  made  large  use  of  Wisd  (see  also  Sanday  and 
Headlam,  l!o»ians.  51  f,  267-C>9) ;  but  this  has  been  denied; 
seefurthcr  Deane  (Comm.,  15tf).     The  book  was  certainly 
known  to  (lenient  of  Home.  Tatian.  Ireiiaeus,  Tertulliaii, 
dement  of  Alexandria  and  1  fippolyt  us.      The  Muratorian 
Fragment  states  the  work  to  have  been  "composed  by  the 
friends  of  Solomon  in  his  honor"  (11.  69-71).     /aim  (Gcsch. 
Kan.,  II,  101,  following  a  suggestion  of  Tregelles)  prefers 
to  read  "composed  by   Philo  in   Solomon's   honor" — an 
easy  change  in  the  dr  (pliilonox  for  phi/nn).      Origen  (Con. 
("<(..  v.2«.ti  calls  it  "the  work  entitled  Wisdom  of  Solomon," 
so  intimating  doubt  as  to  the  authorship. 

XII.  Text  and  Versions. — The  text  in  B,  pointed 

with  collations  in  Swete's  OT  in  Cr,  is  on  the  whole 
(lie  best,  though  both  i?  and  C  (which  is  incomplete) 
have  good  texts,  A  being  fairly  trustworthy.  The 
text  is  found  also  in  fair  preservation  in  many 
cursives. 

The  Vulg  is  identical  with,  but  has  slight  vari- 
ations from,  the  Old  Lat.     Lagarde  (Mittheilungen. 
243-SC))  gives  the  Lat  VS  of  Sir  and 

1.  Latin         }\ 'isd  found  in  Cod.  Amiaut.     This  last 

is  a  literal  rendering  from  the  Greek. 
The  Syr  (Posh)  VS  found  in  the  London  Poly- 
glot and    in    Lagarde   (Lib.  Apoc  Si/r)    was   made 
immediately  from  the  Cr,  but  appar- 

2.  Syriac        ently  from   the  text   in  A,  or  in  one 

like  it. 

LITERATURE. — Besides  the  works  cited  in  the  course 
of  the  foregoing  article  and  the  general  works  (comnis., 
etc)  on  the  Apoc  mentioned  under  APOCRYPHA  (q.v.). 
the  following  are  to  be  noted: 

(1)  Conims.:  Bauermeister,  Comm.  in  Sap.  Sol.  libr., 
1828;  (frimm,  K«mm.  iibt-r  das  Buck  tier  Wcishcit,  1857, 
also  his  excellent  Comm.  in  the  Kurzi/cj 'assies  exeaetisches 
Handbuch,  series  1800;  J.  II.  Schmid,  Das  Buck  der 


Weisheit:  I'ehrrsetzt  untl  crkliirt,  1857;  frutberlet,  Das 
Buck  der  Weisheit,  1874;  W.  .1.  Deane,  The  Book  of 
Wisd,  dr  Vulg  and  AV  with  "Comm."  (1881,  full  and 
fairly  scholarly);  Speaker's  Apoc  (Farrar)  is  interesting 
and  often  helpful;  Siegfried's  "Intro"  and  "Comm."  in 
Kautzsch's  Die  Apoc  is  slight,  but  also  often  helpful; 
The  Wind  of  Solomon  by  J.  A.  E.  dregg  (RV  with  "Intro" 
and  "Comm.,"  Cambridge  Bible)  is  brief  and  popular, 
but  trustworthy;  A.  T.  S.  Goodrick,  The.  Book  of  Wisdom. 
1913  (admirable);  S.  Holmes  (in  the  Oxford  Apoc,  with 
Intro  and  Comm.). 

(2)  Of  the  diet,  arts.,  that  in  ER  (by  C.  H.  Toy)  is 
perhaps  the  best;   that  in  II DB  (Siegfried)  is  fair  but  de- 
fective. 

(3)  In  addition  to  the  works  by  Gfrorer  and  Diihno 
discussing    the   philosophy   of   the;   book,    the   following 
works  may  be  mentioned:     Bruch,    Weisheits-Lehre  der 
Hebraer,     1S51     (322-78);      Zeller,     Die    Philosophic    der 
(iriechen    (1881),    III,    pt.    2,    271-74,    4th    ed,    272-9(5; 
Kiibel,  "  Die  ethischen  drundanschauungen  der  Weisheit 
Salomos,"    in  Theologische  Studien    untl   Kritiken,    1865. 
690-722;    Menzel,  Der   f/rierhisrhe  Einjluss    auf   Prediger 
und    Weisheit    Salomos,   1889,  39-70;    Hois,    Exsai  sur  lea 
orif/ines  de  la  philosophic   judeo-alexandrine,    1890,    211  — 
309,  337-412.     The  work  by  Drummond,  often  quoted, 
has   been  carefully   done  and   is   interestingly    written 
(1'hilo  Judaciis,  1888,  2  vols;    see  I,  177-229). 

For  detailed  bibliography  see  Sehurer,  CJV*.  1909, 
III.  508  ff ;  IMP,  188(5,  II,  3,  pp.  236  f,  is  necessarily  very 
defective. 

T.  WITTON  DAVIES 
WISE,  wiz,  MAN.     See  WISDOM. 

WISE-MEN,  wlz'men:  In  addition  to  the  uses 
of  "wise"  specified  in  the  art.  WISDOM,  the  adj.  is 
employed  occasionally  as  the  technical  description 
of  men  who  are  adepts  in  magic,  divination,  etc 
(e.g.  in  Gen  41  S;  Ex  7  11;  Est  1  13;  Dnl  2  27; 
6  15).  Naturally,  however,  in  the  ancient  world 
the  boundary  between  genuine  knowledge  and  as- 
trology, etc,  was  exceedingly  vague,  and  it  was 
never  denied  that  real  knowledge  could  be  gained 
along  lines  that  we  know  to  be  futile.  So  the  initia- 
tion of  Moses  into  all  the  wisdom  of  the  Egyptians 
(Acts  7  22)  or  of  Daniel  into  all  the  learning  of  the 
Chaldaeans  (Dnl  1  4)  met  with  no  disapproval. 
These  great  men  could  be  trusted  to  avoid  the  moral 
and  religious  pitfalls  of  such  pursuits.  For  the 
ordinary  Israelites,  however,  the  uncompromising 
prohibition  of  idolatry  closed  the  door  definitely  to 
all  studies  of  this  kind.  See  ASTKOLOCY;  DIVI- 
NATION, etc.  And  for  the  Wise-men  of  Mt  2  see 
MAGI.  BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

WISH,  wish:  The  word  appears  both  as  a  sub- 
stantive and  as  a  vb.  in  the  OT,  having  a  variety  of 
meanings:  (1)  The  subst.,  HE  ,  pch,  means  "mouth" 
and  also  "speech."  In  this  form  it  occurs  in  Job 
33  6m:  "Behold,  I  am  according  to  thy  wish  in 
Clod's  stead."  Elihu  here  refers  to  Job's  expressed 
desire  for  an  umpire  (9  33),  and  one  who  would 
maintain  his  right  with  Cod  (16  21).  (2)  The  verb: 
(a)  y EH ,  hdplicg,  "willing,"  or  "desirous"  (Ps  40  14 
AV);  (6)  bXtt,  sha'al,  "to  ask,"  "petition,"  "sup- 
plicate" (Job  31  30  AV);  (c)  another  variation  of 
meaning  is  found  in  Ps  73  7  where  r>'1?t?'5?  ,  maxklth, 
"to  imagine,"  is  trd  "wish":  "They  have  more  than 
heart  could  wish";  (d)  eijxo^ai.,  euchomai,  "to  soli- 
cit," "to  implore"  (Rom  9  3). 

ARTHUR  WALWYN  EVANS 

WIST,  wist,  WITTY,  wit'i,  WOT,  wot:  The  vb. 
"to  wit"  in  AV  is  interchangeable  with  "to  know," 
and  is  conjugated  with  a  present  "wot,"  and  a  past 
"wist."  This  inflection  is  derived  from  more  com- 
plicated forms  in  the  older  Eng.,  and  in  post-Eliza- 
bethan times  has  become  quite  obsolete.  (But  cf 
the  roots  in  "wisdom,"  "witness.")  "Wit,"  then, 
is  simply  "knowledge,"  and  "witty"  is  "having 
knowledge,"  although  the  noun  and  the  adj.  have 
become  narrowly  specialized  in  modern  Eng.  (cf 
the  similar  evolution  of  "knowing,"  in  its  use  as 
an  adj.).  Even  in  Elizabethan  Eng.,  however,  the 
indicative  of  "to  wit"  was  becoming  displaced  by 


3007 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Wisd  of  Solomon 
Witch,  Witchcraft 


"know,"  :m<l  "wot,"  and  "wist,"  together  occur  only 
24  t  in  AV  (not  at,  all  in  Apoc).  ERV  lias  retained 
all  t  he  NT  examples,  but  in  the  OT  has  altered  about 
half  the  occurrences  to  "know,"  but  has  followed 
no  discoverable  rule'  in  so  doing  ("wot"  retained  only 
in  Josh  2  5).  ARV  has  changed  to  "know" 
throughout  (OT  and  NT).  The  inf.  "to  wit"  is 
still  in  use  (chiefly  in  legal  formulas)  before  an  appo- 
sition, and  AV  has  introduced  it  rather  frequently 
to  clarify  a,  construction  (Josh  17  1 ;  1  K  2  32, 
etc),  and  R  V  has  usually  retained  it  (omitted  in  Josh 
17  1;  2  Ch  4  12).  In  the  other  uses  of  this  inf. 
(den  24  21;  Ex  2  4)  it  is  replaced  by  "to  know," 
while  the  very  obsolete  expression  in  2  Cor  8  1,  AV 
"We  do  you  to  wit"  (i.e.  "We  cause  you  to  know"; 
see  Do),  has  become  in  RV  "We  make  known  unto 
you." 

The  noun  "wit"  is  found  in  Ps  107  27,  "at  their 
wits'  [AV  "wit's"]  end,"  for  iDCpn  ,  hokhmah,  "wis- 
dom," "technical  skill";  cf  RVm  "All  their  wisdom 
is  swallowed  up."  The  meaning  is  "their  skilled 
seamanship  cannot  cope  with  the  danger"  (the 
phrase  is  very  commonly  misapplied).  "Wit" 
occurs  also  1  Esd  4  26  (Sidvoia,  didnoia,  "mind"); 
2  Esd  5  9  (.svm-us,  here  "intelligence");  Sir  31  20 
(^X7?)  pxiichP,  "soul,"  with  the  force  of  "reason"). 

Witty  is  found  in  AV,  RVm  Prov  8  12,  "witty 
invent  ions"  (iTQT"}p  ,  mrzimmah,  "discretion"  [so  RV] ; 
if  "and"  is  not  read  in  this  verse,  translate  "dis- 
crete knowledge").  In  Jth  11  23  occurs  "witty 
in  thy  words"  (dyaOds,  agal/ios,  "good,"  here  prob- 
ably ="thou  hast  spoken  sound  sense").  Wisd  8  19 
AV  has  "a  witty  child,"  RV  "a  child  of  parts,"  m 
"goodly"  (fvtpvr;s,  cuphues,  "well  grown,"  "of  a  good 
disposition,"  "clever").  "Wittingly"  occurs  in  Gen 
48  14  ('*rC,  sakhal,  "act  intelligently"). 

BTRTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

WITCH,  wich,  WITCHCRAFT,  wich'kraft: 

1.  The  Words.  Their  Meaning  and  Use 

2.  Biblical  t'sago 

:5.  Common    Elements  in   Witchcraft  and  Ancient  Ori- 
ental Manic' 

4.  Kise,  Spread  and  Persecution  of  Witchcraft 
LITERATURE 

The  word  "witch"  seems  to  denote  etymologically 
"one  that  knows."     It  is  historically  both  mascu- 
line   and    feminine;     indeed    the    AS 

1.  Meaning  form  wicca,  to  which  the  Eng.  word  is 
and  Use  of    to  be  traced,  is  masc.  alone.     "Wiz- 
the  Words     ard"  is  given  as  masc.  for  witch,  but 

it  has  in  reality  no  connection  with  it. 
Wright  (English  Dialect  Diet.,  VII,  521)  says  he 
never  heard  an  uneducated  person  speak  of  wizard. 
When  this  word  is  used  by  the  people  it  denotes,  he 
says,  a  pen-son  who  undoes  the  work  of  a  witch. 
Shakespeare  often  uses  "witch"  of  a  male  (cf  Cym- 
bclinc,  I,  0,  1.  16G:  "He  is  ....  a  witch").  In 
Wyclif's  tr  of  Acts  8  9  Simon  Magus  is  called  "a 
witch"  ("wicche").  Since  the  13th  cent,  the  word 
"witch"  has  come  more  and  more  to  denote  a 
woman  who  has  formed  a  compact  with  the  devil 
or  with  evil  spirits,  by  whose  aid  she  is  able  to  cause 
all  sorts  of  injury  to  living  beings  and  to  things. 
The  term  "witchcraft"  means  in  modern  Eng.  the 
arts  and  practices  of  such  women. 

Since  the  ideas  we  attach  to  "witch"  and  "witch- 
craft" were  unknown  in  Bible  times,  the  words  have 

no  right  place  in  our  Eng.  Bible,  and 

2.  Biblical     this  has  been  recognized  to  some  ex- 
Usage  tent  but  not  completely  by  the   Re- 
visers   of    1SS4.     The    word    "witch" 

occurs  twice  in  AV,  viz.  (I)  in  Ex  22  IS,  "Thou 
shalt  not  suffer  a  witch  [RV  "a  sorceress"]  to  live"; 
(2)  in  Dt  18  10,  "or  a  witch"  (RV  "or  a  sorcerer"). 
The  Heb  word  is  in  both  cases  the  participle  of  the 
vb.  (5193,  kishsheph),  denoting  "to  practice  the 


magical  art."  See  MAGIT,  V,  2.  In  the  first  pas- 
sage, however,  the  fern,  ending  (-ah)  is  attached, 
but  this  ending  denotes  also  one  of  a  class  and  (on 
the  contrary)  a  collection  of  units;  see  Kautzsch, 
Ileb  Gram.™,  §  122,  «,  t. 

The  phrase  "  the,  witch  of  Endor"  occurs  frequently 
in  literature,  and  esp.  in  common  parlance,  but  it  is  not 
found  in  the  Eng.  Bible.  The  expression  has  come 
from  the  heading  and  summary  of  the  AV,  both  often  so 
misleading.  In  1  s  28,  where  alone  the;  character  is 
spoken  of,  EV  translates  the  Heb  'fxltrth  tin'alnth  '<~>hhby 
"a  woman  that  hath  a  familiar  spirit."  A  literal  render- 
ing would  bo  "a  woman  who  is  mistress  of  an  'filihor 
ghost,"  i.e.  ono  abk:  to  compel  the  departed  spirit  to 
return  and  to  answer  certain  questions.  This  woman 
was  therefore  a  necromancer,  a  species  of  diviner  (seo 
DIVINATION,  IV;  ENDOR,  WITCH  OF;  FAMILIAR  SPIRIT). 
and  not  what  the  term  "witch"  imports. 

The  word  "witchcraft"  occurs  thrice  in  AV.  In 
1  S  15  23,  "the  sin  of  witchcraft"  should  be  as 
in  RVm,  "the  sin  of  divination,"  the  latter  rep- 
resenting the  Ileb  word  CCJ5  ,  kcscm,  generally  trd 
"divination";  see  DIVINATION,  VII,  1. 

The  phrase  "used  witchcraft"  (of  Manasseh,2  Ch 
33  16)  is  properly  rendered  in  RV  "practised  sor- 
cery," the  Heb  vb.  (51273,  kishsheph)  being  that 
whence  the  participles  in  Ex  22  18  and  Dt  18  10,  trd 
in  AV  "witch,"  are  derived  (see  above).  The  word 
tr'1  in  AV  "witchcraft"  in  Gal  5  20  ((pap/^aKfia, 
pharmakcia)  is  the  ordinary  Or  one  for  "sorcery," 
and  is  so  rendered  in  RV,  though  it  means  literally 
the  act  of  administering  drugs  and  then  of  giving 
magical  potions.  It  naturally  comes  then  to  stand 
for  the  magician's  art,  as  in  the  present  passage  and 
also  in  Wisd  12  4;  18  13;  and  in  the  LXX  of  Isa 
47  9,  where  it  represents  the  Heb  noun  D"1?!!'? , 
keshdphim,  trd  "sorceries";  cf  the  Ileb  vb.  51273, 
kishsheph;  see  above. 

The  pi.  "witchcrafts"  (in  AV  and  RV)  stands  for 
the  Heb  noun  just  noticed  (keshaphlm)  in  2  K  9 
22;  Mic  5  12;  Nah  3  4.  but  in  all  three  passages  a 
proper  rendering  would  be  "sorceries"  or  "magical 
arts."  "Witchcrafts"  is  inaccurate  and  misleading. 

The  vb.  "bewitch"  occurs  in  Acts  8  9.11  AV  (of 
Simon  Magus  bewitching  the  people)  and  in  Gal  3 
1  ("O  foolish  Galatians,  who  hath  bewitched  you?"). 
In  the  first  context  the  Gr  vb.  is  ^to-r^/ut,  cxls- 
tf'mi.,  which  is  properly  rendered  by  the  Revisers 
"amazed";  in  ver  13  the  passive  of  the  same  vb. 
is  trd  "He  was  amazed"  (AV  "He  wondered").  In 
Gal  3  1,  the  vb.  is  ;3a<rKcuVw,  baskaitio,  which  is  used 
of  a  blinding  effect  of  the  evil  eye  and  has  perhaps 
an  occult  reference,  but  it  has  nothing  whatever  to 
do  with  "witch"  or  "witchcraft," 

Though  the  conceptions  conveyed  by  the  Eng. 
word  "witch"  and  its  cognates  were  unknown  to  the 
Hebrews  of  Bible  times,  yet  the  funda- 
3.  Common  mental  thought  involved  in  such  terms 
Elements  in  was  familiar  enough  to  the  ancient 
Witchcraft  Hebrews  and  to  other  nations  of  antiq- 
and  Ancient  uity  (Babylonians,  Egyptians,  etc), 
Oriental  viz.  that  there  exists  a  class  of  persons 
Magic  called  by  us  magicians,  sorcerers,  etc, 

who  have  superhuman  power  over  liv- 
ing creatures  including  man,  and  also  over  Nature 
and  natural  objects.  This  power  is  of  two  kinds: 
(1)  cosmic,  (2)  personal.  For  an  explanation  sec 
MAGIC,  II.  It  is  in  Assyr-Bab  literature  that  we 
have  the  completest  account  of  magical  doctrine 
and  practice.  The  words  used  in  that  literature 
for  the  male  and  female  magician  are  ashipu  and 
axhiptH,  which  correspond  to  the  Heb  m'khashsheph 
and  m'khashshepfiah  in  Dt  18  10  and  Ex  22  18 
(see  2,  above)  and  are  cognate  to  512755,  'ashshaph 
(see  Did  1  20;  2  2.10,  etc),  which  means  a  magi- 
cian (RV  "enchanter").  Other  Bab  words  are 
kashshapu  and  kashshaptu,  which  in  etymology  and 


Witch,  Witchcraft 
Wolf 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3098 


in  sense  agree  with  the  I  Id)  terms  m"khashsheph 

and  mekh(ix/ifiht.~]>!idli  mentioned  above.  But  neither 
in  the  Bab  or  lleb  \vords  is  there  the  peculiar  idea 
of  a  witch,  viz.  one  who  traffics  with  malicious 
spirits  for  malicious  ends.  Indeed  the  magician 
was  a  source  of  good  (male  and  female)  as  conceived 
by  the  Babylonians,  esp.  the  axliipu  and  axhiplii, 
to  the  state  and  to  individuals,  as  well  as  of  evil, 
and  he  was  often  therefore  in  the  service  of  the 
state  as  the  guide  of  its  policy.  And  the  same 
applies  to  the  magician  as  the  Hebrews  regarded 
him,  though  the  true  teachers  and  leaders  in  Israel 
condemned  magic  and  divination  of  every  sort  as 
being  radically  opposed  to  the  religion  of  Jeh  (Dt 
18  10  f).  Of  course,  if  a  Bab  magician  used  his 
art  to  the  injury  of  others  he  was  punished  as 
other  criminals,  and  in  case  of  the  death  of  the 
victim  he  was  executed  as  a  murderer.  It  is,  how- 
ever, noteworthy  in  its  bearing  on  "witchcraft ''  that 
the  female  magician  or  sorceress  played  a  larger 
part  in  ancient,  Babylonia  than  her  male  counter- 
part, and  the  same  is  true  of  the  (Ireeks  and  other 
ancient  people.  This  arose  perhaps  from  the  fact 
that  in  primitive  times  men  spent  their  time  in 
fighting  and  hunting;  the  cooking  of  the  food  and 
the  healing  of  the  sick,  wounded,  etc,  by  magical 
potions  and  otherwise,  falling  to  the  lot  of  the 
woman  who  stayed  at  home.  In  the  early  history 
of  the,  Hebrews  inspired  women  played  a  greater 
role  than  in  later  time;  cf  Miriam  (Ex  15  20  f; 
Nu  12);  Deborah  (,Jgs  5  12);_  lluldah  (2  K  22 
14  ff).  Note  also  the  rTCrfi  HEX  ,  ' ix/ix/idfi  hdkhd- 
indli,  or  "wise  woman"  of  2  S  14  2ff;  20  10. 

The  first  two  sections  of  the  CII  are  as  follows:  "  1.  If 
a  man  has  laid  a  curse  [/:ixpu=^">Z'^I  <  k''sfiai>irt>n]  upon 
[another!  man  ;uul  it  is  not  justified,  he  that  laid  the 
curse  shall  lie  put  to  death.  1>.  If  a  man  has  put  a  spell 
upon  [another]  man  and  it-  is  not  justified,  he  upon  whom 
the  spell  is  laid  shall  go  to  tlie  holy  river;  into  the  holy 
river  shall  he  plunge.  If  the  holy  river  overcome  him 
[and  he  is  drowned],  the  man  \\lio  put  the  spell  upon 
him  shall  take  possession  of  his  house.  If  the  holy  river 
declares  him  innocent  and  he  remains  unharmed  the 
man  who  laid  tin;  spell  shall  be  put  lo  death.  Jle  that 
plunged  into  the  river  shall  take  possession  of  the  house 
of  him  who  laid  the  spell  upon  him."  Not  a  word  is 
said  here,  of  a  female  that  weaves  a  spell,  but  probably 
the  word  "man"  in  the  Bab  is  to  lie  taken  as  including 
male  and  female  (so  Canon  C.  If.  W.  Johns  in  a  private 
letter,  dated  December  212,  1912). 

In  the  early  and  esp.  in  the  mediaeval  church,  the 
conception  of  the  devil  occupied  a  very  important 

place,  and  human  beings  were  thought 
4.  Rise,  to  be  under  his  dominion  until  he  was 
Spread  and  exorcised  in  baptism.  It  is  to  this  be- 
Persecution  lief  that  we  owe  the  rise  and  spread  of 
of  Witch-  infant  baptism.  The  unbapfized  were 
craft  thought  to  be  devil-possessed.  The 

belief  in  ttie  existence  of  women  magi- 
cians had  come  down  from  hoary  ant  iquity.  It  was 
but  a  short  step  to  ascribe  the  evil  those  women 
wrought  to  the  devil  and  his  hosts.  Then  it  was 
natural  to  think  that  the  devil  would  not  grant  such 
extraordinary  powers  without  some  quid  pro  quo; 
hence  the  witch  (or  wizard)  was  supposed  to  have 
sold  her  (or  his)  soul  to  the  devil,  a  proceeding  that 
would  delight  the  heart  of  the  great  enemy  of  good 
always  on  the  alert  to  hinder  the  salvation  of  men; 
cf  the  Faust  legend.  For  the  conditions  believed  to 
be  imposed  by  the  devil  upon  all  who  would  be  in 
league  with  him  see  A.  Lehmann,  Aberglaubc  und 
Zaubcrci*  (190S),  11  Off. 

This  idea  of  a  covenant  with  the  devil  is  wholly 
absent  from  the  early  heathen  conception  of  magic; 
nor  do  we  in  the  latter  read  of  meetings  at  night 
between  the  magicians  and  the  demons  with  whom 
they  dealt,  such  as  took  place  on  the  Witches'  Sab- 
bath. The  witches  were  believed  to  have  sexual 
commerce  with  devils  and  to  be  capable  only  of 


inflicting  evil,  both  thoughts  alien  to  oriental  and 
therefore  to  Bib.  magic. 

The  history  and  persecution  and  execution  of  women, 
generally  ignorant  and  innocent,  supposed  to  have  been 
guilty  of  witchcraft,  do  not  fall  within  the  scope  of  this 
article,  hut  may  bo  perused  in  innumerable  works:  see 
"Literature"  below.  In  Europe  alone,  not  to  mention 
America  (Salem,  etc),  Sprenger  says  that  over  nine 
million  suspected  witches  were  put  to  death  on  the 
flimsiest  evidence;  even  if  this  estimate  be  too  high  the 
actual  number  must  have  been  enormous.  The  present 
writer  in  his  booklet,  The  Survival  of  the  Evangelical 
Faith  ("Essays  for  the  Times,"  1909),  gives  a  brief  ac- 
count of  the  defence  of  the  reality  of  witch  power  by 
nearly  all  the  Christian  theologians  of  the  17th  cent. 
and  by  most  of  those  living  in  the  early  ist-h  cent,  (sco 
pp.  23  If).  See  also  M.-une,  and  Expos  T,  IX,  157  if. 

LiTKKATt-RK. — In  addition  to  the  literature  cited  under 
arts.  DIVINATION-  and  MACK:  (q.v.),  the  following  works 
may  be  mentioned  (the  books  on  witchcraft  proper  are 
simply  innumerable):  Reginald  Scot.  The  Disearer;/  <>J 
Witchcraft  (aimed  at  preventing  the  persecution  of 
witches,  1.5X4;  republished  London,  188(1);  reply  to 
the  last  work  by  James  I  of  England:  Daemonologie, 
1.5!)7;  Casaubon,  On  Crcdnlit>/  and  1  ncri'itnlitu  .... 
.1  Treatise  J'ron'iif/  Spirits,  \\'itclus  and  Supernatural 
Operations,  1(1(18;  Joseph  (ilanrill,  Xadiicisnnix  Trium- 
plititux:  Full  mill  Plain  Eridineis  conn  ruini/  \\'itc/<es  and 
A  ]>ixir  it  inn. v  (the  last  two  books  are  by  theologians  who 
class  with  "atheists" — a  vague  word  in  those  times  for 
unbelief — -all  such  as  doubt  the  power  of  witches  and 
deny  the  power  of  devils  upon  human  life).  For  the 
history  of  witchcraft  and  its  persecutions  see  Howard 
Williams,  The  Superstitions  of  Witchcraft,  18(1.5,  and 
(brief  but  interesting  and  compact)  Charles  Mackay, 
Mrmoirs  (if  Extraordinary  Popular  Delusions  (2  vols, 
ls.51,  101-91).  See  also 'Sir  W.  Scott,  Demonology  and 
Witchcraft,  1830;  W.  K.  Halliday,  (!r  Divination:  A 
Stmli/  of  Its  Method*  an<!  1'rincipli 's,  London,  Macmillan 
(important);  and  art.  by  the  present  writer  in  Expos, 
January,  1914,  on  "The  Words  Witch  and  Witchcraft 
in  History  and  in  Literature."  Eor  a  full  account  of  the 
witch  craze  and  persecution  at  Salem,  near  Boston, 

U.S.A.,  see  The  W<n«lcrx  of  the  Inrisihlc  World  by  Cot- 
ton Mather,  D.D.,  with  a  further  account  by  Increase 
Mather,  D.D.,  and  cf  Demon  1'osscasion  by  J.  L.  Nevins, 
3015-10. 

,  T.  WITTON  DAVIES 

WITHERED,  with'erd  (*i:  ,  nabhc.l,  "to  fade 
away,'1  "to  be  dried  up"):  (1)  Used  figuratively  to 
express  leanness  of  soul,  spiritual  impotence,  a  low 
condition  of  spiritual  life,  a  lack  of  moral  nourish- 
ment: "My  heart  is  smitten  like  grass,  and  wither- 
oth"  (Ps  102  4).  The  contrasting  figure  empha- 
sizes this  idea:  "All  my  fountains  are  in  thee"  (87  7). 
Also  Ps  1  3,  where  the  freshness  and  beauty  of  the 
righteous  man's  life  are  thus  described:  "And  he 
shall  be  like  a  tree  planted  by  the  streams  of  water, 
....  whose  leaf  also  doth  not  wither."  In  the 
NT  ZrjpaLvu,  xcrtdno,  "to  wither,"  is  used  to  carry 
out  the  same  idea  of  moral  decay,  or  malnutrition 
of  soul  (Mt  13  G;  21  19).  (2)  "Wither';  also  had 
a  physiological  meaning,  expressing  both  in  the  OT 
and  in  the  NT  the  idea  of  bodily  impotence,  esp., 
though  not  exclusively,  of  the  limbs.  Jeroboam 
was  struck  suddenly  with  paralysis  of  the  arm,  which 
is  said  to  have  "dried  up"  (1  K  13  4-0);  "probably 
due  to  sudden  hemorrhage  affecting  some  part  of 
the  brain,  which  may  under  certain  circumstances 
be  only  temporary"  (IIDJ1,  1-vol,  590).  "Their 
skin  cleaveth  to  their  bones;  it  is  withered"  (Lam 
4  8). 

In  the  NT  (Mt  12  10;  Mk  3  1;  Lk  6  6) 
"withered  hand"  was  probably  our  modern  "in- 
fantile paralysis,"  which  may  leave  one  or  more 
limbs  shrunken  and  powerless  without  detriment  to 
the  general  health.  ARTHUR  WALWYN  EVANS 

WITHES,  wilhs,  withs,  WITHS,  withs,  GREEN 
(S^ni  C^^Pi^  ,  ythdrlm  lahlm,  m  "new  bowstrings," 
AVm  "new  [moist]  cords"  [Jgs  16  7];  LXX  vtvpd 
v-ypd,  ncurd  hitgrd):  The  material  with  which  Sam- 
son was  bound  by  Delilah  (ver  8)  was  probably 
some  moist  "gut"  such  as  was  used  for  bowstrings. 
Cf  D'nrP'a,  mctharlm,  "bowstrings"  (Ps  21  12; 
HP? ,  yether,  Job  30  11 ;  Ps  11  2) ;  lahlm,  trd  "green," 
means  "fresh,"  "sappy"  or  "moist." 


3099 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Witch,  Witchcraft 
Wolf 


WITNESS,  wit 'ncs  (nouns  ~7  ,  W/i,  and  n"7  , 
*cdh(ih.,  :uul  vb.  niy ,  *dndh;  (idprvs,  mdrius,  with 
all  derivative  words  and  their  compounds):  The 
word  "witness"  is  used  of  inanimate  things,  e.g. 
the  heap  of  stones  testifying  to  the  eovenant  be- 
tween Jacob  and  Laban  (den  31  44-54),  and  the 
Song  of  Moses  (Dt  31  19.21).  The  main  use  of 
the  word  is  forensic,  and  from  this  use  all  other 
applications  are  naturally  derived.  Important 
legal  agreements  required  the  attestation  of  wit- 
nesses, as  in  the  case  of  the  purchase  of  property,  or 
a  betrothal  (Ruth  4  1-11,  where  we  are  told  that  the 
ancient  form  of  attestation  was  by  a  man  drawing 
off  his  shoe  and  giving  it  to  his  neighbor). 

The  Mosaic  Law  insisted  on  the  absolute  necessity 
of  witnesses  in  all  cases  which  came  before  a  judge, 
esp.  in  criminal  cases.  Not  only  in  criminal  cases, 
but  in  all  case's,  it  was  necessary  to  have  at  least 
two  witnesses  to  make  good  an  accusation  against  a 
person  (Dt  17  6;  19  la;  cf  Nu  35  30;  Ml  18  10; 
.In  8  17;  2  Cor  13  1;  1  Tim  5  19).  According  to 
the  Talm  (/'''.w/it//;,  113h),  if  in  a  case  of  immorality 
only  one  witness  came  forward  to  accuse  anyone, 
it  was  regarded  as  sinful  on  the  part  of  that  witness. 

On  the  other  hand,  anyone  who,  being  present  at 
the  adjuration  (Lev  6  1  RV),  refused  to  come  for- 
ward as  a  witness  when  he  had  testimony  to  bear,  was 
considered  to  have  sinned  (Prov  29  24).  Among 
those  not  qualified  to  be  witnesses  were  the  near 
relations  of  the  accuser  or  the  accused,  friends  and 
enemies,  gamesters,  usurers,  tax-gatherers,  heathen, 
slaves,  women  and  those  not  of  age  (Sanhedhrln  3  3, 
4;  Ro'sh  Ha-shdndh  1  7;  Bdbhd'  Kanttnd'  88a;  cf 
A nl,  IV,  viii,  15).  No  one  could  be  a  witness  who 
had  been  paid  to  render  this  service  (Bekhdroth  4  6). 
In  cases  of  capital  punishment  there  was  an  elaborate 
system  of  warning  and  cautioning  witnesses.  Each 
witness  had  to  be  heard  separately  (Sanhedhrln  6; 
cf  3  5).  If  they  contradicted  one  another  on  impor- 
tant points  their  witness  was  invalidated  (Sanhcdh- 
riti  6). 

No  oath  was  required  from  witnesses.  The 
meaning  of  Lev  6  1  was  not  that  witnesses  had  to 
take  an  oath,  as  some  think;  it  describes  the  solemn 
adjuration  of  the  judge  to  all  those  with  knowledge 
of  the  case  to  come  forward  as  witnesses  (see  OATH). 
When  a  criminal  was  to  be  put  to  death,  the  wit- 
nesses against  him  were  to  take  the  foremost  share 
in  bringing  about  his  death  (Dt  17  7;  cf  Acts_7  58), 
in  order  to  prove  their  own  belief  in  their  testimony. 
In  the  case  of  a  person  condemned  to  be  stoned,  all 
the  witnesses  had  to  lay  their  hands  on  the  head  of 
the  condemned  (Lev  24  14).  "False  witnessing" 
was  prohibited  in  the  Decalogue  (Ex  20  16); 
against  it  the  lex  talionis  was  enforced,  i.e.  it  was 
done  to  the  witness  as  he  meant  to  do  to  the  ac- 
cused (Dt  19  16-21).  The  Sadducees  held  that 
only  when  the  falsely  accused  had  been  executed, 
the  false  witnesses  should  be  put  to  death;  the 
Pharisees,  that  false  witnesses  were  liable  to  be 
executed  the  moment  the  death  sentence  had  been 
passed  on  the  falsely  accused  (Makkoth  1  7).  In 
spite  of  prohibitions,  false  witnessing  was  a  very 
common  crime  among  the  people  (Ps  27  12;  35  1 1 ; 
Prov  6  19;  12  17;  14  5;  19  5;  24  28;  Mt  26 
60;  Acts  6  13). 

In  Acts  22  20;  Rev  2  13;  17  6  the  word  martus, 
"witness,"  seems  to  be  beginning  to  acquire  the 
meaning  of  "martyr,"  as  in  AV,  although  11V 
translates  "witness"  in  the  first  two  passages,  re- 
taining "martyr"  only  in  the  third  with  "witness" 
in  the  in.  For  "Tabernacle  of  Witness"  see  TAB- 
ERNACLE. PAUL  LEVERTOFF 

WITNESS  OF  THE  SPIRIT:  This  phrase  arises 
from  the  words  of  Rom  8  16:  "The  Spirit  himself 
beareth  witness  with  our  spirit,  that  we  are 


children  <>f  (!od."  With  this  may  be  grouped,  a,s 
illustrative,  1  ,ln  5  10:  "He  that,  bclieveth  on  the 
Son  of  God  hath  the  witness  in  him."  in  inter- 
preting, we  may  approach  the  former  passage 
through  the  latter.  To  the  man  who  "believeth  on 
the  Son  of  God,"  BO  as  to  pror<;  Jj  im  by  reliance,  He 
becomes  self  -evidential  in  experience,  verifying  Him- 
self to  the  believer  as  the  Divine  response  to  his 
whole  spiritual  need.  Thus  believed  on  as  the  Son, 
lie  awakens  in  the  soul  which  He  embraces  the 
filial  attitude  toward  God,  the  cry,  "Abba,  Father." 
On  the  other  side  the  Spirit,  both  in  the  written 
Word  (e.g.  Jn  1  12)  and  in  His  secret  converse  with 
the  believer  in  the  life  of  faith,  assures  him  of  the 
paternal  love  toward  him,  as  toward  a  "dear  child," 
(Eph  5  1)  of  the  Father  of  his  Lord.  There  is  thus 
a  concurrent  "witnessing."  The  believer's  spirit 
says,  "Thou  art  my  Father";  the  Spirit  says  to  the 
believer's  spirit,  "Thou  art  His  child."  We  may 
compare  Rom  5  5:  "The  love  of  God  hath  been 
shed  abroad  in  our  hearts  through  the  Holy  Spirit." 

HANULEY  DUNELM 
WITTY.     See  WIST,  WITTY,  WOT. 

WIZARD,  wiz'ard.  See  ASTROLOGY,  1;  DIVINA- 
TION; FAMILIAR  SPIRIT;  MAGIC;  WITCH,  WITCH- 
CRAFT. 

WOLF,  wcjolf  ([1]  1ST  ,  ze'ebh  [Gen  49  27;  Isa 
11  6;  65  25;  Jer  5  0;  Ezk  22  27;  Hub  1  8; 
Zeph  3  3;  also  as  proper  name,  Zeeb,  prince  of 
Midian,  Jgs  7  25;  83;  Ps  83  11];  cf  Arab. 


dJii'b,    colloquial    v_^oj>  ,    dhV>,    or 
<ltb;  "[2]  XVKOS,  liikos  [Mt  7  15;    10  10;    Lk  10  3; 


•H^V%^N^.ja/ 


Wolf   (Canis  lupus). 

Jn  10  12;  Acts  20  29;  Ecclus  13  17;  cf  2  Esd 
5  IS,  lupus];  [3]  S^X,  'lyim,  11 V  "wolves"  [Isa 
13  22;  34  14;  Jer  60  39]): 

While  the  wolf  is  surpassed  in  size  by  some  dogs, 
it  is  the  fiercest  member  of  the  dog  family  (Canidac), 
which  includes  among  others  the  jackal  and  the  fox. 
Dogs,  wolves  and  jackals  are  closely  allied  and  will 
breed  together.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  first 
dogs  were  domesticated  wolves.  While  there  are 
local  varieties  which  some  consider  to  be  distinct 
species,  it  is  allowable  to  regard  all  the  wolves  of 
both  North  America,  Europe,  and  Northern  Asia 
(except  the  American  coyote)  as  members  of  one 
species,  Canis  lupus.  The  wolf  of  Syria  and  Pal  is 
large,  light  colored,  and  does  not  seem  to  hunt  in 
packs.  Like  other  wolves  it  is  nocturnal.  In  Pal 
it  is  the  special  enemy  of  the  sheep  and  goats.  This 
fact  comes  out  in  two  of  the  seven  passages  cited 
from  the  OT,  in  all  from  the  NT,  and  in  the  two 
from  Apoc.  In  Gen  49  27  Benjamin  is  likened  to 
a  ravening  wolf.  In  Ezk  22  27,  and  in  the  similar 
Zeph  3  3,  the  elders  of  Jerus  are  compared  to 
wolves.  In  Jer  5  6  it  is  a  wolf  that  shall  destrov 


Woman 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3100 


the  people  of  Jems,  and  in  Hah  1  8  tho  horses  of 
the  Chaldaeai.s  "arc  swifter  than  leopards,  and  are 
more  fierce  than  the  evening  wolves."  Babylon 
and  Edoin  (Lsa  13  22;  34  14;  Jer  60  39)  are  to 
be  the  haunts  of  'lyltn  (RV  "wolves")  and  other  wild 
creatures. 

The  name  of  Zeeb,  prince  of  Midian  (Jgs  7  2.r>; 
8  3),  has  its  parallel  in  the  Arab.  Dib  or  Dfnb,  which 
is  a  common  name  today.  Such  animal  names  are 
frequently  given  to  ward  off  the  evil  eye.  See  also 
TOTKMISM.  ALFRED  ELY  DAY 


WOMAN,  w  oom'an  (nU?J5  ,  'ishshcth,  "a  woman" 
[fern,  of  TIPS  ,  'l$h,  "a  man"];  ywv^,  ywnl,  "a  woman," 
"wife"): 

I.     I>j  THE  CREATIVE  PLAN 
II.     IN  <>T  TIMES 

1.  Prominence  of  Women 

2.  Social  Equality 

3.  Marriage  Laws 

4.  Inheritance 

5.  Domestic  Duties 

(').    Dress  and  Ornaments 

7.    Religious  Devotion  and  Service 

(1)  In  Idolatry  and  False  Religion 

(2)  In  Spiritual  Religion 

III.  INTFCK-TF.STAMENT  KH\ 

IV.  IN    XT   TIMES 

1.  Mary  and  Elisabeth 

2.  .Jesus  and  Women 

3.  In  the  Karly  Church 

4.  Official  Service 
!>.  Widows 

().    Deaconesses 
V.      LATKK   TIM  KM 

1.  Changes  in  Character  and  Condition 

2.  N'otahle  Examples  of  Christian  Womanhood 

3.  Woman  in  the  20th  Century 

The  generic  term  "man"  includes  woman.  In  the 
narrative  of  the  creation  ((leu  1  2(1.27)  Adam  is 
a  collective  term  for  mankind.  It  may  signify  a 
human  being,  male  or  female,  or  humanity  entire. 
"God  said,  Let  us  make  man  ....  and  let  them" 
(ver  2')),  the  latter  word  "them"  defining  "man"  in 
the  former  clause.  So  in  ver  27,  "In  the  image  of 
God  created  he  him;  male  and  female  created  lie 
them,"  "them"  being  synonymous  with  "him"  (see 
also  ADAM;  ANTHROPOLOGY). 

/.  In  the  Creative  Plan.  —  Whatever  interpreta- 
tion the  latest  scholarship  may  give  to  the  story  of 
woman's  formation  from  the  rib  of  man  (Gen  2 
21-24)",  the  passage  indicates,  most  profoundly,  the 
inseparable  unity  and  fellowship  of  her  life  with  his. 
Far  more  than  being  a  mere  assistant,  "helper" 
("Ijy,  Wr,  "help,"  "helper,"  Gen  2  18),  she  is 
man's  complement,  essential  to  the  perfection  of  his 
being.  Without  her  he  is  not  man  in  the  generic 
fulness  of  that  term.  Priority  of  creation  may  indi- 
cate headship,  but  not,  as  theologians  have  so 
uniformly  affirmed,  superiority.  Dependence  indi- 
cates difference  of  f  unct  ion,  not.  inferiority.  Human 
values  are  estimated  in  terms  of  the  mental  and 
.spiritual.  Man  and  woman  are  endowed  for  equal- 
ity, and  are  mutually  interdependent.  Physical 
strength  and  prowess  cannot  be  rated  in  the  same 
category  with  moral  courage  and  the  capacity  to 
endure  ill-treatment,  sorrow  and  pain;  and  in  these 
latter  qualities  woman  has  always  proved  herself 
the  superior.  Man's  historic  treatment  of  woman, 
due  to  his  conceit,  ignorance  or  moral  perversion, 
has  taken  her  inferiority  for  granted,  and  has  thus 
necessitated  it  by  her  enslavement  and  degradation. 
The  narrative  of  the  Fall  (Gen  3)  ascribes  to  woman 
supremacy  of  influence,  for  through  her  stronger 
personality  man  was  led  to  disobedience  of  God's 
command.  Her  penalty  for  such  ill-fated  leader- 
ship was  that  her  husband  should  "rule  over"  her 
(Gen  3  16),  not  because  of  any  inherent  superiority 
on  his  part,  but  because  of  her  loss  of  prestige  and 
power  through  sin.  In  that  act  she  forfeited  the 
respect  and  confidence  which  entitled  her  to  equal- 


ity of  influence  in  family  affairs.  Her  recovery 
irom  the  curst;  of  subjection  was  to  come  through 
the  afflictive  suffering  of  maternity,  for,  as  St.  Paul 
puts  it,  "she  shall  be  saved  [from  the  penalty  of  her 
transgression]  through  her  child-bearing"  (1  Tim 
2  15). 

Sin,  both  in  man  and  woman,  has  been  universally 
the  cause  of  woman's  degradation.  All  history  must  bo 
interpreted  in  the  light  of  man's  consequent  mistaken 
estimate  of  her  endowments,  worth  and  rightful  place. 
The  ancient  Hebrews  never  entirely  lost  the  light  of  their 
original  revelation,  ami,  more  than  any  other  oriental 
race,  held  woman  in  high  esteem,  honor  and  affection. 
Christianity  completed  the  work  of  her  restoration  to 
equality  of  opportunity  and  place.  Wherever  its  teach- 
ings and  spirit  prevail,  she  is  made  the  loved  companion, 
confidante  and  adviser  of  her  husband. 

//.  In  OT  Times.  —  Under  the  Hcb  system  the 
position  of  woman  was  in  marked  contrast  with 

her  status  in  surrounding  heathen  na- 
1.  Promi-  tions.  Her  liberties  were  greater,  her 
nence  of  employments  more  varied  and  impor- 
Women  tant  ,  her  social  standing  more  respect- 

ful and  commanding.  The  Divine  law 
given  on  Sinai  (Ex  20  12)  required  children  to  honor 
the  mother  equally  with  the  father.  A  similar  es- 
teem was  accorded  her  in  patriarchal  times.  Sarah 
held  a  position  of  favor  and  authority  in  Abraham's 
household.  Rebekah  was  not  less  influential  than 
Isaac,  and  was  evidently  the  stronger  personality. 
The  "beautiful"  Rachel  (Gen  29  17)  won  from  Jacob 
a  love  that  accepted  her  as  an  equal  in  the  com- 
panionship and  counsels  of  family  life.  Many  Heb 
women  rose  to  eminence  and  national  leadership. 
Miriam  and  Deborah  were  each  a  prophetess  and  a 
poetess.  The  former  led  bands  of  women  in  trium- 
phant song  and  procession,  celebrating  the  over- 
throw of  enemies  (Ex  15  20);  the  latter,  through 
her  dominating  personality  and  prophetic  power,  be- 
came the  virtual  judge  of  the  nation  and  led  armies 
to  victory.  Her  military  general,  Barak,  refused  to 
advance  against  Sisera  without  her  presence  and 
commanding  influence  (Jgs  4  8).  Her  ode  of  victory 
indicates  the  intellectual  endowment  and  culture  of 
her  sex  in  that  unsettled  and  formative  era  (Jgs  5). 
No  person  in  Israel  surpassed  Hannah,  the  mother 
of  Samuel,  in  intelligence,  beauty  and  fervor  of 
religious  devotion.  Her  spiritual  exaltation  and 
poetic  gift  found  expression  in  one  of  the  choicest 
specimens  of  early  Heb  lyric  poetry  (1  S  2  1-10). 
Other  women  eminent  as  prophetesses  were: 
Huldah,  whose  counsel  was  sought  by  high  priest 
and  king  (2  Ch  34  22;  cf  2  K  22  14);  Noadiah 
(Neh  6  14);  Anna  (Lk  2  30).  The  power  to 
which  woman  could  attain  in  Israel  is  illustrated 
in  the  career  of  the  wicked,  merciless,  murderous, 
idolatrous  Jezebel,  self-styled  prophetess  (Rev  2 
20).  Evidence  of  woman's  eminence  in  the  king- 
doms of  Judah  and  Israel  is  seen  in  the  influence  she 
exercised  as  queen  mother  (1  K  15  13)  and  queen 
(2  K  8  IS);  in  the  beautiful  honor  shown  by  King 
Solomon  to  his  mother,  Bath-sheba  (1  K  2  19);  in 
the  filial  devotion  of  the  prophet  Elisha  (1  K  19 
20);  in  the  constant  mention  of  the  mother's  name 
in  the  biographies  of  successive  kings,  making  it 
evident  that  she  was  considered  the  important  and 
determining  factor  in  the  life  of  her  royal  sons.  Her 
teaching  and  authority  were  sufficiently  eminent 
to  find  recognition  in  the  proverbs  of  the  nation: 
"tho  law  of  thy  mother"  (Prov  1  8;  6  20)  was  not 
to  be  forsaken,  while  contempt  for  the  same  merited 
the  curse  of  God  (Prov  19  20;  20  20;  30  11.17). 

Additional  evidence  of  woman's  social  equality  comes 
from  the  fact  that  men  and  women  feasted  together 
without  restriction.  Women  shared  in 
the  sacred  meals  and  great  annual  feasts 
;Dt  16  n  14);  in  wedding  festivities  (Jn 
g  1-3)  ; 


Equality 


-3)  ;  jn  the  fellowship  of  the  family  meal 
(12   3).     They  could  appear,  as  Sarah  did 
in  the  court  of  Egypt,  unveiled   (Gen  12  11.14).     Re- 


3101 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Woman 


bekah  (Ccn  24  10;  ef  vcr  65),  Rachel  (29  11),  Han- 
nah (1  S  1  i:{)  appeared  in  public  and  before  suitors 
with  uncovered  faces.  The  secluding  veil  was  intro- 
duced into  Mohammedan  and  other  oriental  lands 
through  the  influence  of  the  Koran.  Tho  custom  was 
non-Jewish  in  origin,  and  the  monuments  make  it  evi- 
dent that  it  did  not  prevail,  in  early  times,  in  Assyria 
and  Egypt.  Even  Greece  and  Home,  at  the  time  of  their 
supremo  culture,  fell  far  below  the  Hob  conception  of 
woman's  preeminent  worth.  Tho  greatest  Hellenic 
philosophers  declared  that  it  would  radically  disorgan- 
ize the  state  for  wives  to  claim  equality  with  their  hus- 
bands. Aristotle  considered  women  inferior  beings, 
intermediate  between  freemen  and  slaves.  Socrates  and 
Demosthenes  held  them  in  like  depreciation.  Plato 
advocated  community  of  wives.  Substantially  the  same 
views  prevailed  in  Rome.  Distinguished  men,  like 
Metullus  and  Cato,  advocated  marriage  only  as  a  public 
duty.  More  honor  was  shown  the  courtesan  than  the 
wife.  Chastity  and  modesty,  the  choice  inheritance 
of  Heb  womanhood,  were  foreign  to  the  Gr  conception 
of  morality,  and  disappeared  from  Rome  when  Gr  cul- 
ture and  frivolity  entered.  The  Greeks  made  the  shame- 
less Phryne  tin;  model  of  the  goddess  Aphrodite,  and 
lifted  their  hands  to  public  prostitutes  when  they  prayed 
in  their  temples.  Under  pagan  culture  and  heathen 
darkness  woman  was  universally  subject  to  inferior  and 
degrading  conditions.  Every  decline  in  her  status  in 
the  Heb  commonwealth  was  due  to  the  incursion  of  foreign 
influence.  The  lapses  of  Heb  morality,  esp.  in  the  court 
of  Solomon  and  of  subsequent  kings,  occurred  through 
the  borrowing  of  idolatrous  and  heathen  customs  from 
surrounding  nations  (1  K  11  1-8). 

The  Bible  gives  no  sanction   to  dual  or  plural 
marriages.     The   narrative   in    Gen  2  18-24   indi- 
cates that  monogamy  was  the  Divine 
3.  Marriage  ideal  for  man.     The  moral  decline  of 
Laws  the  generations  antedating  the  Flood 

seems  to  have  been  due,  chiefly,  to  the 
growing  disregard  of  the  sanctity  of  marriage. 
Lamech's  taking  of  two  wives  (Gen  4  19)  is  the 
first  recorded  infraction  of  the  Divine  ideal.  By 
Noah's  time  polygamy  had  degenerated  into  pro- 
miscuous inter-racial  marriages  of  the  most  inces- 
tuous and  illicit  kind  (Gen  6  1-4;  see  SONS  OF 
GOD).  The  subsequent  record  ascribes  marital 
infidelity  and  corrupt  ion  to  sin,  and  affirms  that  the 
destruction  of  the  race  by  the  Flood  and  the  over- 
throw of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  were  God's  specific 
judgment  on  man's  immorality.  The  dual  mar- 
riages of  the  Patriarchs  were  due,  chiefly,  to  the 
desire  for  children,  and  are  not  to  be  traced  to  Di- 
vine consent  or  approval.  The  laws  of  Moses 
regarding  chastity  protected  the  sanctity  of  mar- 
riage (see  MARRIAGE),  and  indicated  a  higher  regard 
for  woman  than  prevailed  in  gentile  or  other  Sem 
races  (Lev  18  0-20).  They  sought  to  safeguard 


Concubinage  in   Israel  was  an   importation   from 
heathenism. 

Divorce  was  originally  intended  to  protect  the  sanctity 
of  wedlock  by  outlawing  the  offender  and  liis  moral 
offence.  Its  free  extension  to  include  any  marital  infe- 
licity met  the  stern  rebuke  of  Jesus,  who  declared  that 
at  the  best  it  was  a  concession  to  human  infirmity  and 
hardness  of  heart,  and  should  be  granted  only  in  case  of 
adultery  (Mt  5  32).  See  DIVOHCE. 

Heb  women  were  granted  a  freedom  in  choosing  a  hus- 
band not  known  elsewhere  in  the  East  (Gen  24  58). 
Jewish  tradition  declares  that  a  girl  over  12  J  years  of  age 
had  the  right  to  give  herself  in  marriage.  Vows  made 
by  a  daughter,  while  under  age,  could  be  annulled  by 
the  father  (Xu  30  3-5)  or  by  the  husband  (vs  6-10). 
Whenever  civil  law  made  a  concession  to  the  customs  of 
surrounding  nations,  as  in  granting  the  father  power  to 
sell  a  (laughter  into  bondage,  it  sought  to  surround  her 
with  all  possible  protection  (Dt  22  10  ff). 

The   Mosaic    Law   prescribed    that   the   father's 

estate,  in  case  there  were  no  sons,  should  pass  to 

the     daughters     (Nu  27  1-8).     They 

4.  Inherit-     were  not  permitted,  however,  to  alien- 

ance  ate  the  family  inheritance  by  marrying 

outside    their    own     tribe     (36  6-9). 

Such  alien  marriages  were  permissible  only  when 

the  husband  took  the  wife's  family  name  (Neh  7 

63).     Unmarried  daughters,  not  provided  for  in  the 


father's  will,  were  to  be  cared  for  by  the  eldest  son 
(Gen  31  11.15J.  The  bride's  dowry,  at,  marriage, 
was  intended  as  a  substitute!  for  her  share  in  the 
family  estate.  In  rabbinical  law,  a  century  or 
more  before  Christ,  it  took  the  form  of  a  settlement 
upon  the  wife  and  was  considered  obligatory.  Pro- 
vision for  woman  under  the  ancient,  Mosaic;  Law  was 
not  inferior  to  her  .status  under  Eng.  law  regarding 
landed  estates. 

Among   the  Hebrews,   woman   administered   the 
affairs  of  the  home  with  a  liberty  and  leadership 

unknown  to  other  oriental  peoples. 
6.  Domestic  Her  domestic  duties  were  more  inde- 
Duties  pendent,  varied  and  honorable.  She 

was  not  the  slave  or  menial  of  her  hus- 
band. Her  outdoor  occupations  were  congenial, 
healthful,  extensive.  She  often  tended  the  flocks 
(Gen  29  G;  Ex  2  10);  spun  the  wool,  and  made 
the  clothing  of  the  family  (Ex  35  20;  Prov  31  19; 

1  S  2  19);  contributed  by  her  weaving  and  needle- 
work to  its  income  and  .support,  (Prov  31  11.24), 
and  to  charity   (Acts  9  39).     Women  ground  the 
grain  (Mt  24  41);    prepared  the  meals  (Gen  18  0; 

2  S  13  8;    Jn  12  2);    invited  and  received  guests 
(Jgs  4  18;   1  S  25  18  ff;  2  K  4  8-10);  drew  water 
for  household  use   (1  S  9   1 1  ;   Jn  4  7),  for  guests 
and  even  for  their  camels  (Gen  24  15-20).     Heb 
women  enjoyed  a  freedom  that  corresponds  favor- 
ably with  the  larger  liberties  granted  them  in  the 
Christian  era. 

That  women  were  fond  of  decorations  and  display  in 

ancient  as  in  modern  times  is  clear  from  the  reproof 

administered    by    the    prophet    i'or    their 

6.  Dress          haughtiness  and  excessive  ornamentation 

and  Orna         Wsa  3  10).     Ho  bids  them  "remove    ithel 
u  yrnd        yeil   Htrip  Qff  the  trami-.  that  th(.y  may  bo 

better  able  to  "grind  meal"  and  attend 
to  the  other  womanly  duties  of  the  homo 
(47  2).  These  prophetic  reproofs  do  not  necessarily 
indicate  general  conditions,  but  exceptional  tendencies 
to  extravagance  and  excess.  Tho  ordinary  dress  of 
women  was  modest  and  simple,  consisting  of  loose  How- 
ing  robes,  similar  to  those  worn  by  men,  and  still  in  vogue 
among  Orientals,  chiefly  the  mantle,  shawl  and  veil 
(Ruth  3  15;  Isa  3  22.23).  Tho  veil,  however,  was  not 
worn  for  seclusion,  as  among  the  Moslems.  The  exten- 
sive wardrobe  and  jewelry  of  Heb  women  is  suggested  by 
the  catalogue  given  in  Isa  3  1S-24:  anklets,  cauls 
crescents,  pendants,  bracelets,  mufflers,  headtires,  ankle 
chains,  sashes,  perfume-boxes,  amulets,  rings,  nose- 
jewels,  festival  robes,  mantles,  shawls,  satchels,  hand- 
mirrors,  flno  linen,  turbans,  veils.  Tho  elaborateness  of 
this  ornamentation  throws  light  on  the  apostle;  Peter's 
counsel  to  Christian  women  not  to  make  their  adornment 
external,  e.g.  the  braiding  of  the  hair,  the  wearing  of 
jewels  of  gold,  the  putting  on  of  showy  apparel,  but 
rather  the  apparel  of  a  meek  and  quiet  spirit  (1  Pet  3 
3.4). 

The  reflections  cast  upon  woman  for  her  leadership 

in  the  first  transgression  (Gen  3  6.13.10;   2  Cor  11 

3;    1  Tim  2  14)   do   not   indicate  her 

7.  Religious  rightful  and  subsequent  place  in  the 
Devotion        religious   life   of   mankind.     As   wife, 
and  Service  mother,   sister,  she  has   been   preemi- 
nently devout  and  spiritual.     History 

records,  however,  sad  and  striking  exceptions  to 
this  rule. 

(1)  Often  woman's  religious  intensity  found  ex- 
pression in  idolatry  and  the  gross  cults  of  heathen- 
ism. That  she  everywhere  participated  freely  in  t  he 
religious  rites  and  customs  of  her  people  is  evident 
from  the  fact  that  women  were  often  priestesses, 
and  were  often  deified.  The  other  Sem  religions 
had  female  deities  corresponding  to  the  goddesses  of 
Greece  and  Rome.  In  the  cult  of  Ishtar  of  Babylon 
women  were  connected  with  the  immoral  rites  of 
temple-worship.  The  women  of  heathen  nations  in 
the  harem  of  Solomon  (1  K  11  1)  turned  the  heart 
of  the  wise  king  to  unaccountable  foil}'  in  the  wor- 
ship of  the  Sidonian  goddess  Ashtoreth,  and  of 
Chemosh  and  Molech,  in  turn  the  "abomination" 
of  Moab  and  Ammon  (11  5-8).  The  fatal  spell  of 
Maacah  morally  blighted  the  reigns  of  her  husband, 


Woman 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3102 


son  and  grandson,  until  Asa  tin-  latter  deposed  bet- 
as queen  and  destroyed  the  obscene  image  of  Asherah 
which  she  had  set  up  (1  K  15  13).  As  "queen 
mother"  (ffhlilrdli,  "leader")  she  \vas  equivalent  to 
the  Turkish  Xnllana  VuUtlc. 

Baal-worship  was  introduced  into  Israel  by 
Jezebel  (1  K  16  31.32;  18  19;  2  K  9  22),  and 
into  Judah  by  her  daughter  Athaliah  (2  Ch  22  3; 
24  7).  The  ])roniinence  of  women  in  idolatry  and 
in  the  abominations  of  foreign  religions  is  indicated 
in  the  writings  of  the  prophets  (.Jer  7  IS;  E/k  8 
1-1).  Their  malign  influence  appeared  in  the  sor- 
ceress and  witch,  condemned  to  death  by  the 
Mosaic  Law  (Ex  22  IS);  yet  continuing  through 
the  nation's  entire  history.  Even  kings  consulted 
them  (1  S  28  7-14).  The  decline  and  overthrow 
of  Judah  and  Israel  must,  be  attributed,  in  large 
measure,  to  the  deleterious  effect  of  wicked,  worldly, 
idolatrous  women  upon  their  religious  life. 

(2)  The  bright  side  of  Ueb  history  is  an  inspiring 
contrast  to  this  dark  picture.  1'rior  to  the  Chris- 
tian era  no  more  luminous  names  adorn  the  pages 
of  history  than  those  of  the  devout  and  eminent 
Heb  women.  Jochebed,  the,  mother  of  Moses,  left 
upon  him  a  religious  impress  so  vital  and  enduring 
as  to  safeguard  him  through  youth  and  early  man- 
hood from  the  fascinating  corruptions  of  Pharaoh's 
Egyp  court  (Ex  2  1-10;  He  11  23  26).  In  Ruth, 
the  converted  Moabitess,  the  royal  ancestress  of 

1  )avid  and  of  Jesus,  we  have  an  unrivaled  example  of 
filial  piety,  moral   beauty  and  self-sacrificing   reli- 
gious devotion   (Ruth  1  15-1X).     The  prayers  and 
piety  of  Hannah,  taking  effect  in  the  spiritual  power 
of  her  son  Samuel,  penetrated,  purified  and  vitalized 
the  religious  life  of  the  (Mil  ire  nation.     Literature 
contains  no  finer  tribute  to  the  domestic  virtues  and 
spiritual  qualities  of  woman  than  in  the  beautiful 
poem    dedicated    to    his    gifted    mother    by    King 
Lemuel  (Prov  31). 

Women,  as  well  as  men,  took  upon  themselves  the 
self-renouncing  vow  of  the  Na/irite  (Nu  6  -),  and 
shared  in  ottering  sacrifices,  as  in  the  vow  and  sacrifice 
of  Manoah's  wife  (Jgs  13  i:i.!4>;  were  granted  thc- 
ophanies,  e.g.  Hagar  (Gen  16  V;  21  17),  Sarah  (18  9.10), 
Manoah's  wife  (Jgs  13  :i-;V9) ;  were  even  permitted  to 
"minister"  at  the  door  of  the  sanctuary  (Ex  38  K;  1  S 

2  22)-  rendered  conspicuous  service  in  national  religious 
songs 'and  dances  (Kx  15  lit);  Jgs  11  :M;  l  S  18  0.7);  in 
the  great  choirs  and  choruses  and  processionals  of  the 
Temple    (l>s  68  ^:    K/.r  2  05;    Neh  7  07) ;    in  religious 
mourning  (Jer  9  17-20;  Mk  5  3S».    They  shared  equally 
with  men  in  the,  great  religious  feasts,  as  is  indicated  by 
the  law  requiring  their  attendance  (in  12  is). 

///  Inter-Testament  Era. — The  women  portrayed  in 
the  apocryphal  literature  of  the  Jews  reveal  all  the  varied 
characteristics  of  their  sex  so  conspicuous  in  OT  history: 
devout  piety,  ardent  patriotism,  poetic  fervor,  political 
intrigue,  worldly  ambition,  and  sometimes  a  strange 
combination  of  these  contradictory  moral  qualities, 
Whether  fictitious,  or  founded  on  fact,  or  historical,  these 
portrayals  are  true  to  the  feminine  life  of  that  era. 

Anna  is  a  beautiful  example  of  wifely  devotion.  By 
her  faith  and  hard  toil  she  supported  her  husband  Tobit, 
after  the  loss  of  his  property  and  in  his  blindness,  until 
sight  and  prosperity  were  both  restored  (Tob  1  '.); 
2  1-14). 

Edna,  wife  of  Raguel  of  Kcbatana  and  mother  of 
Sarah  made  her  maternal  love  and  piety  conspicuous 
in  the  blessing  bestowed  on  Tobias  on  the  occasion  of  his 
marriage,  to  her  daughter,  who  had  hitherto  been  cursed 
on  the  night  of  wedlock  by  the  death  of  seven  successive 
husbands  (7;  10  12). 

Sarah,  innocent  of  their  death,  which  had  been  com- 
passed by  the  evil  spirit  Asmodeus.  at  last  had  the 
reward  of  her  faith  in  the  joys  of  a  happy  marriage  (Tob 
10  10;  14  13). 

Judith,  a  rich  young  widow,  celebrated  in  Heb  lore 
as  the  savior  of  her  nation,  was  devoutly  and  ardently 
patriotic.  When  Nebuchadnezzar  sent  his  general 
Holofernes  with  an  army  of  132,000  men  to  subjugate 
the  .lews,  she  felt  called  of  Cod  to  be  their  deliverer. 
Visiting  Holofernes,  she  so  captivated  him  with  her 
beauty  and  gifts  that  he  made  a  banquet  in  her  honor. 
While  he  was  excessively  drunk  with  the  wine  of  his  own 
bounty,  she  beheaded  him  in  his  tent.  The  Assyrians, 
paralyzed  by  the  loss  of  their  leader,  easily  fell  a  prey 
to  the  armies  of  Israel.  Judith  celebrates  her  triumph 
in  a  song,  akin  in  its  triumphant  joy,  patriotic  fervor 


and  religious  zeal,  to  the  ancient  songs  of  Miriam  and 
Deborah  (,1th  16  1  17). 

Susanna  typifies  the  ideal  of  womanly  virtue.  The 
daughter  of"  righteous  parents,  well  instructed  in  the 
sacred  Law,  the  wife  of  a  rich  and  honorable  man, 
Joachim  by  name,  she  was  richly  blessed  in  position  and 
person.  Exceptionally  modest,  devout  and  withal  very 
beautiful,  she  attracted  the  notice  of  two  elders,  who 
were  also  judges,  and  who  took  occasion  frequently  to 
visit  Joachim's  house.  She  spurned  their  advances  and 
when  falsely  charged  by  them  with  the  sin  which  she  so 
successfully  resisted,  she  escapes  the  judgment  brought 
against  her,  by  the  subtle  skill  of  Daniel.  As  a  result, 
his  fame  and  her  innocence  became  widely  known.  See 
SrsANXA,  HISTORY  OF. 

Cleopatra,  full  of  inherited  intrigue,  is  influential  in  the 
counsels  of  kings.  She  married  successively  for  political 
power;  murdered  her  eldest  son  Seleucus,  by  Demetrius, 
and  at  last  dies  by  the  poison  which  she  intended  for  her 
younger  son,  Antioehus  VIII.  Her  fatal  influence  is 
a  striking  example  of  the  perverted  use  of  woman's 
power  (1  Mace  10  ">S;  Jos,  Ant,  XIII,  iv,  1;  ix,  X). 

IV.  In  NT  Times. — A  new  era  _ dawned^  for 
woman  with  the  advent  of  Christianity.  The 

honor  conferred  upon  Mary,  as  mother 
1.  Mary  of  Jesus,  lifted  her  from  her  "low  es- 
and  fate,"  made  after-generations  call  her 

Elisabeth        blessed     (Lk  1  4S),     and     carried     its 

benediction  to  the  women  of  all  sub- 
sequent times.  St.  Luke's  narrative  of  the  Na- 
tivity (Lk  1,  2)  has  thrown  about  motherhood  the 
halo' of  a  new  sanctity,  given  mankind  a  more _ ex- 
alted conception  of  woman's  character  and  mission, 
and  made  the  world's  literature  the  vehicle  of  the 
same  lofty  reverence  and  regard.  The  two  dis- 
pensations were  brought  together  in  the  persons  of 
Elisabeth  and  Mary:  the  former  the  mother  of  John 
the  Baptist,  the  lust  of  the  old  order  of  prophets; 
the  latter  the  mother  of  the  long-expected  Messiah. 
Both  are  illustrious  examples  of  Spirit-guided  and 
Spirit-filled  womanhood.  The  story  of  Mary's 
intellectual  gifts,  spiritual  exaltation,  purity  and 
beauty  of  character,  and  her  training  of  her  Divine 
child,'  has  been  an  inestimable  contribution  to 
woman's  world-wide  emancipation,  and  to  the  up- 
lift and  ennoblement  of  family  life.  To  her  poetic 
inspiration,  spiritual  fervor  and  exalted  thankful- 
ness as  expectant  mother  of  the  Messiah,  the  church 
universal  is  indebted  for  its  earliest  and  most  ma- 
jestic hymn,  the  Maijiiijlnil.  In  her  the  ^religious 
teachings,  prophetic  hopes,  and  noblest  ideals  of 
her  race  were  epitomized.  Jesus'  reverence  for 
woman  and  the  new  respect  for  her  begotten  by 
His  teaching  were  well  grounded,  on  their  human 
side,  in  the  qualities  of  His  own  mother.  The  fact 
that  lie  Himself  was  born  of  woman  has  been  cited 
to  her  praise  in  the  ecumenical  creeds  of  Christen- 
dom. 

From  the  first,  women  were  responsive  to  His 
teachings  and  devoted  to  His  person.  The  sisters  of 
Lazarus,  Mary  and  Martha,  made  their 
2.  Jesus  home  at  Bethany,  His  dearest  earthly 
and  Women  refuge  and  resting-place.  \Yomen  of 
all  ranks  in  society  found  in  Him  a 
benefactor  and  friend,  before  unknown  in  all  the 
history  of  their  sex.  They  accompanied  Him,  with 
the  Twelve,  in  His  preaching  tours  from  city  to  city, 
some,  like  Mary  Magdalene,  grateful  because  healed 
of  their  moral  infirmities  (Lk82);  others,  like 
Joanna  the  wife  of  Chuzas,  and  Susanna,  to  minister 
to  His  needs  (8  3).  Even  those  who  were  ostracized 
by  society  were  recognized  by  Him,  on  the  basis 
of  immortal  values,  and  restored  to  a  womanhood 
of  virtue  and  Christian  devotion  (Lk  7  37-50). 
Mothers  had  occasion  to  rejoice  in  His  blessing  their 
children  (Mk  10  13-10);  and  in  His  raising  their 
dead  (Lk  7  12-15).  AVomen  followed  Him  on  His 
last  journey  from  Galilee  to  Jerus;  ministered  to 
Him  on  the  way  to  Calvary  (Mt  27  55.56);  wit- 
nessed His  crucifixion  (Lk  23  49);  accompanied  His 
body  to  thesepulcher  (Mt  27  61;  Lk  23  55);  pre- 
pared spices  and  ointments  for  His  burial  (Lk  23 


3103 


Till-;  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HIBLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Woman 


56);  were  first  at  (he  tomb  on  the  morning  of  His 
resurrect  ion  (Ml  28  1;  Mk  16  I;  Lk  24  1;  Jn  20 
Ij;  and  were  the  first,  to  whom  tlic  risen  Lord 
appeared  (Ml,  28  <);  Mk  16  '.);  Jn  20  11).  Among 
Ihose  thus  faithful  and  favored  \vere  Mary  Magda- 
lene, Mary  the  mother  of  James  and  Joses,  Salome 
(Ml,  27  /><>)>  Joanna,  and  other  unnamed  women 
(Lk  24  10).  Women  had  thehonorof  being  the  first 
to  announce*  the  fact  of  1  he  resurrect  ion  tot  lie  chosen 
disciples  (Lk  24  9.10.22).  They,  including  the 
mother  of  Jesus,  were  among  the  120\vho  continued 
in  prayer  in  the  upper  room  and  received  the  Pente- 
costal enduement  (Acts  1  14);  they  were  among 
the  first  Christian  converts  (8  12);  suffered  equally 
with  men  in  the  early  persecutions  of  the  church 
(9  2).  The  Jewish  enemies  of  the  new  faith  sought 
their  aid  and  influence  in  the  persecutions  raised 
against  .Paul  and  Barnabas  (13  50);  while  women  of 
equal  rank  among  the  Creeks  became;  ardent  and 
intelligent  believers  (17  12).  The  fidelity  of  women 
to  Jesus  during  His  three  years'  ministry,  and  at  the 
cross  and  sepulcher,  typifies  their  spiritual  devotion 
in  the  activities  and  enterprises  of  the  church  of  the 
20th  century. 

Women  were  prominent,   from  the  first,   in  the 

activities   of    flu1   early    church.     Their   faith   and 

prayers    helped     to    make    Pentecost 

3.  In  the        possible  (Acts  1  14).     They  were  emi- 
Early  nent,    as    in    the    case   of    Dorcas,    in 
Church  charity  and  good  deeds  (9  36);    fore- 
most in  prayer,  like  Mary  the  mother  of 

John,  who  assembled  the  disciples  at  her  home  to 
pray  for  Peter's  deliverance  (12  12).  Priscilla  is 
equally  gifted  with  her  husband  us  an  expounder 
of  "the  way  of  Cod,"  and  instructor  of  Apollos 
(18  26j,  and  as  Paul's  "fellow-worker  in  Christ" 
(Rom  16  3).  The  daughters  of  Philip  were  proph- 
etesses (Acts  21  S.9).  The  first  convert  in  Europe 
was  a  woman,  Lydia  of  Thyatira,  whose  hospitality 
made  a  home  for  Paul  and  a  meeting-place  for  the 
infant  church  (16  14).  Women,  as  truly  as  men, 
were  recipients  of  the  charismatic  gifts  of  Chris- 
tianity. The  apostolic  greetings  in  the  Epp.  give 
them  a  place  of  honor.  The  church  at  Rome  seems 
to  have  been  blessed  with  a  goodly  number  of  gifted 
and  consecrated  women,  inasmuch  as  Paul  in  the 
closing  salutations  of  his  Epp.  sends  greetings  to  at 
least  eight  prominent  in  Christian  activity:  Phoebe, 
Prisca,  Mary  "who  bestowed  much  labor  on  you," 
Tryphena  and  Tryphosa,  Persis,  Julia,  and  the 
sister  of  Nereus  (Rom  16  1.3.0.12.15).  To  no 
women  did  the  great  apostle  feel  himself  more 
deeply  indebted  than  to  Lois  and  Eunice,  grand- 
mother and  mother  of  Timothy,  whose  "faith  un- 
feigned" and  ceaseless  instructions  from  the  holy 
Scriptures  (2  Tim  1  5;  3  14.15)  gave  him  the  most 
"beloved  child"  and  assistant  in  his  ministry.  Their 
names  have  been  conspicuous  in  Christian  history 
for  maternal  love,  spiritual  devotion  and  fidelity  in 
teaching  the  Word  of  Cod.  See  also  CLATDIA. 

From  the  first,  women  held  official  positions  of 

influence  in  the  church.     Phoebe  (Rom  16  1)  was 

evidently    a    deaconess,    whom    Paul 

4.  Official      terms  "a  servant  of  the  church,"   "a 
Service  helper  of  many"  and  of  himself  also. 

Those  women  who  "labored  with  me 
in  the  gospel"  (Phil  4  3)  undoubtedly  participated 
with  him  in  preaching.  Later  on,  the  apostle  used 
his  authority  to  revoke  this  privilege,  possibly 
because  some  women  had  been  offensively  forward 
in  "usurping  authority  over  the  man"  (1  Tim  2 
12  AY).  Even  though  he  bases  his  argument  for 
woman's  keeping  silence  in  public;  worship  on 
Adam's  priority  of  creation  and  her  priority  in 
transgression  (2  13.14),  modern  scholarship  un- 
hesitatingly affirms  that  his  prohibition  was  appli- 
cable only  to  the  peculiar  conditions  of  his  own  time. 


Her  culture,  grace,  scholarship,  ability,  religious 
devotion  and  spiritual  enduement,  make  it  evident 
that,  she  is  often  as  truly  called  of  Cod  to  public 
address  and  instruction  as  man.  It  is  evident,  in 
the  NT  and  in  (he  writings  of  the  Apostolic  Fathers 
that  women,  through  the  agency  of  two  ecclesias- 
tical orders,  were;  assigned  official  duties  in  the  con- 
duct and  ministrations  of  the  early  church. 

Their  existence  as  a  distinct  order  is  indicated  in  1  Tim 
5  D.10,  where  l';uil  directs  Timothy  as  in  the  conditions 
of  their  enrolment.  "  Xo  widow  should  be 
6.  Widows  I'1'"1"0,11''''"  (jcaTaAeyo,,  hataleyf,,  "  cata- 
logued," "registered")  under  <;<)  years  of 
age,  or  if  more  than  once  married.  She 
must  be  "well  reported  of  for  good  works";  a  mother, 
having  "brought  up  children";  hospitable,  having 
'used  hospitality  to  strangers" ;  Ohristlike  in  loving  serv- 
ice, having  "washed  the  saints'  feet."  Clirvsostom 
and  lertulhan  make  mention  of  this  order.  it  bound 
its  members  to  tin;  service;  of  Cod  for  life,  and  assigned 
them  ecclesiastical  duties,  e.g.  the  superintendence  of 
the  rest  of  the  women,  and  the  charge  of  the  widows  and 
orphans  supported  at  public  expense.  J)ean  Alford  (see 
Comm.  m  loc.)  says  they  "wen;  vowed  to  perpetual  widow- 
hood, clad  in  a  vestis  vidualis  ("widow's  garments"]  and 
ordained  by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  This  institution 
was  abolished  by  the  eleventh  Canon  of  the  council  of 
Laodicea. 

_  Other  special  duties,  mentioned  by  the  Church  Fathers, 
Included  prayer  and  fasting,  visiting  the  sick,  instruction 
of  women,  preparing  them  for  baptism,  assisting  in  the 
administration  of  this  sacrament,  and  taking  them  the 
communion.  The  spiritual  nature  of  the  office  is  indi- 
cated by  its  occupant  being  variously  termed  "the  inter- 
cessor of  the  church";  "the  keeper  of  the  door,"  at  public- 
service;  "  the  altar  of  God."  See  \V  mows. 

Many  of  these  duties  were  transferred,  by  the  3d  cent., 
to  the  deaconesses,  an  order  which  in  recent  history  has 
been  restored  to  its  original  importance  and 
6.  Deacon-    ell'ectiveness.    The  women  already  referred 
PQ«P«  to  in  Rora  16  i-0-1^  «•<''•«  evidently  of  this 

order,  the  term  6i«/«>r<K,  cli'd/.-on,^,  being 
specifically  applied  to  Phoebe,  a  deacon- 
ess of  the  church  at  Cenchreae.  The  women  of  1  Tim 
3  1  1,  who  were  to  serve,  "in  like  manner"  as  the  "dea- 
cons" of  ver  10,  presumably  held  this  office,  as  also  the 
"aged  women"  of  Tit  2  3  (-"presbyters"  [fern.], 
irpecr0vT£pat,  presbuterai,  1  Tim  5  2).  Virgins  as  well  as 
widows  were  elected  to  this  office,  and  the  age  of  eligi- 
bility was  changed  from  GO  to  4()  by  the  Council  of  Chal- 
cedon.  The  order  was  suppressed  in  the  hat  church  in 
the  6th  cent.,  and  in  the  Or  church  in  the  12th,  because 
of  certain  abuses  that  gradually  became  prevalent. 
Owing,  however,  to  its  exceptional  importance  and  value 
it  has  been  reinstated  by  nearly  all  branches  of  the 
modern  church,  the  Methodists  esp.  emphasizing  its 
spiritual  efficiency.  Special  training  schools  and  courses 
in  education  now  prepare  candidates  for  this  oflice.  K  ven 
as  early  as  the  Puritan  Reformation  in  England  the  Con- 
gregationalists  recognized  this  order  of  female  workers  in 
their  discipline.  The  spiritual  value  of  woman's  ministry 
in  the  lay  and  official  work  of  the  church  is  evidenced  by 
her  leadership  in  all  branches  of  ecclesiastical  and  mis- 
sionary-enterprise. This  modern  estimate  of  her  capa- 
bility and  place  revises  the  entire  historic  conception  and 
attitude  of  mankind.  See  DEACONESS. 

V.  Later  Times. — Tertullian  mentions  the  mod- 
est garb  worn  by  Christian  women  (I)c  Cult.  7<Y///., 

ii.ll)  as  indicating  their  conscious- 
1.  Changes  ness  of  their  ne\v  spiritual  wealth  and 
in  Character  worthiness.  They  no  longer  needed 
and  the  former  splendor  of  outward  a( lorn- 

Condition  riient,  because  clothed  with  the  beauty 

and  simplicity  of  Christ  like  character. 
They  exchanged  the  temples,  theaters,  and  festivals 
of  paganism  for  the  home,  labored  with  their  hands, 
cared  for  their  husbands  and  children,  graciously 
dispensed  Christian  hospitality,  nourished  their 
spiritual  life  in  the  worship,  service  and  sacraments 
of  the  church,  and  in  loving  ministries  to  the  sick. 
Their  modesty  and  simplicity  were  a  rebuke  to  and 
reaction  from  the  shameless  extravagances  and 
immoralities  of  heathenism.  That  t  hey  were  among 
the  most  conspicuous  examples  of  the  transforming 
power  of  Christianity  is  manifest  from  the  admira- 
tion and  astonishment  of  the  pagan  Libanius  who 
exclaimed,  "What  women  these  Christians  have!" 
The  social  and  legal  status  of  woman  instantly 
improved  when  Christianity  gained  recognition  iii 
the  Empire.  Her  property  rights  as  wife  were  es- 


Woman 
Worker 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3104 


tablished  by  law,  and  her  husband  made  subject  to 
accusation  for  marital  infidelity.  II or  inferiority, 
subjection  and  servitude  among  all  non-Jewish  and 
non-Christian  races,  ancient  and  modern,  are  the 
severest  possible  arraignment  of  man's  intelligence 
and  virtue.  Natural  prudence  should  have  dis- 
covered the  necessity  of  a  cultured  and  noble 
motherhood  in  order  to  a  fine  grade  of  manhood. 
Races  that  put  blighting  restrictions  upon  woman 
consign  themselves  to  perpetual  inferiority,  im- 
potence and  final  overthrow.  The  decline  of  Islam 
and  the  collapse  of  Turkey  as  a  world-power  are 
late  striking  illustrations  of  this  fundamental  truth. 

Woman's   activity   in   the  early    church  came   to   its 
zenith  in  the  4th  cent.     The  typo  of  feminine  character 
produced   by   Christianity   in   that    era   is 
n     TJ-.-.to'Klo     indicated  by  such  notable  examples  as  Km- 
••   L  e     melia  and  Maerina,  the  mother  and  sister 

Examples  of  of  Basil;  Anthusa,  Xonna,  Monica,  re- 
Christian  spectively  the  mothers  of  Chrysostom, 
-.rr  '  .j  Gregory  Nazianzen  and  Augustine.  Like 

Womannooatlu,  mothcrs  of  Jerome  and  Ambrose,  they 
gave  luster  to  the  womanhood  of  the  early 
Christian  centuries  by  their  accomplishments  and  emi- 
nent piety.  As  defenders  of  the  faith  women  stand  side 
by  side  with  Ignatius  and  Polyearp  in  their  capacity  to 
face  death  and  endure  the  agonies  of  persecution.  The 
roll  of  martyrs  is  made  luminous  by  the  unrivaled  purity, 
undaunted  'heroism,  unconquerable  faith  of  such  Chris- 
tian maidens  as  Blandina,  Potamiaena,  Perpetua  and 
Felicitas,  who,  in  their  loyalty  to  Christ,  shrank  not  from 
the  most  fiendish  tortures  invented  by  the  diabolical 
cruelties  and  hatred  of  pagan  Rome. 

In  the  growing  darkness  of  subsequent  centuries 
women,  as  mot  tiers,  teachers,  abbesses,  kept  the  light  of 
Christian  faith  and  intelligence  burning  in  mediaeval 
Europe.  The  mothers  of  St.  Bernard  and  Peter  the  Ven- 
erable witness  to  the  conserving  and  creative  power  of 
their  devotion  and  faith.  The  apotheosis  of  the  Virgin 
Mother,  though  a  grave  mistake  and  a  perversion  of 
Christianity  by  substituting  her  for  the  true  object  of 
worship,  nevertheless  served,  in  opposition  to  pagan  cul- 
ture, to  make  the  highest  typo  of  womanhood  the  ideal 
of  mediaeval  greatness.  The  full  glory  of  humanity 
was  represented  in  her.  She  became  universally  domi- 
nant in  religion.  The  best  royalty  of  Europe  was  con- 
verted through  her  influence.  Poland  and  Russia  were 
added  to  European  Christendom  when  their  rulers 
accepted  the  faith  of  their  Christian  wives.  Clotilda's 
(•(inversion  of  Clovis  made  Franco  Christian.  The  mar- 
riage of  Bertha,  another  Christian  princess  of  France,  to 
Ethelbert  introduced  Roman  Christianity  into  England, 
which  became  the  established  religion  when  Edwin,  in 
turn,  was  converted  through  the  influence  of  his  Chris- 
tian wife.  The  process  culminated,  in  the  10th  cent., 
In  the  long,  prosperous,  peaceful,  Christian  reign  of  Vic- 
toria, England's  noblest  sovereign. 

The  opening  decades  of  the  2()th  cent,  are  witnessing 
a  movement  among  women  that  is  one  of  the  most  re- 
markable phenomena  in  the  history  of  man- 
3.  Woman  kind.  It  is  world-wide  and  spontaneous, 
.  '  ,1  onth  and  aims  at  nothing  less  than  woman's 
in  me  zuin  universal  education  and  enfranchisement. 
Century  This  new  ideal,  taking  its  rise  in  the  teach- 

ing of  Jesus  regarding  the  value  of  the 
human  soul,  is  permeating  every  layer  of  society  and 
all  races  and  religions.  Woman's  desire  for  development 
and  self-expression,  and  bettor  still  for  service,  has  given 
birth  to  educational,  social,  eleemosynary,  missionary 
organizations  and  institutions,  international  in  scope  and 
influence.  In  75  years  after  Mary  Lyon  inaugurated  the 
higher  education  of  woman  at  Mt.  Holyoke  College,  in 
18:^7,  (50,000  women  were  students  in  the  universities  and 
colleges  of  the  United  States;  nearly  40,000  in  the  uni- 
versities of  Russia;  and  increasingly  proportionate  num- 
bers in  every  higher  institution  of  learning  for  women  in 
the  world;  30,000  were  giving  instruction  in  the  primary 
and  secondary  schools  of  Japan.  Even  Moslem  leaders 
confessed  that  the  historic  subjection  of  woman  to  igno- 
rance, inferiority,  and  servitude  was  the  fatal  mistake  of 
their  religion  and  social  system.  The  striking  miracle 
occurred  when  Turkey  and  China  opened  to  her  the  here- 
tofore permanently  closed  doors  of  education  and  social 
opportunity. 

This  universal  movement  for  woman's  enlightenment 
and  emancipation  is  significantly  synchronous  with  the 
world-wide  extension  and  success  of  Christian  missions. 
The  freedom  wherewith  Christ  did  set  us  free  includes 
her  complete  liberation  to  equality  of  opportunity  with 
man.  In  mental  endowment,  in  practical  ability,  in  all 
the  higher  ministries  of  life,  and  even  in  statecraft,  she 
has  proved  herself  the  equal  of  man.  Christianity 
always  tends  to  place  woman  side  by  side  with  man  in 
all  the  groat  achievements  of  education,  art,  literature, 
the  humanities,  social  service  and  missions.  The  entire 
movement  of  modern  society  toward  her  perfect  en- 
franchisement is  the  distinct  and  inevitable  product  of 


the  teaching  of  Jesus.  The  growing  desire  of  woman  for 
the  right  of  suffrage,  whether  mistaken  or  not,  is  thn 
incidental  outcome  of  this  new  emancipation.  The 
initial  stages  of  this  evolutionary  process  are  attended 
by  many  abnormal  desires,  crudities  of  experiment  and 
conduct,  but  ultimately,  under  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit 
of  God  and  the  Christian  ideal,  woman  will  intelligently 
adjust  herself  to  lrir  new  opportunity  and  environment, 
recognizing  every  God-ordained  difference  of  function, 
and  every  complementary  and  cooperative  relation  be- 
tween the  sexes.  The  result  of  this  latest  evolution  of 
Christianity  will  not  only  bo  a  new  womanhood  for  the 
race  but,  through  her  enlightenment,  culture  and  spiritual 
leadership,  a  new  humanity. 

DWIOHT  M.  PRATT 

WONDER,  wun'der,  WONDERFUL,  wun'der- 
ful:  The  vb.  "wonder"  occurs  only  a  few  times  in 
the  OT;  "wonder"  as  noun  is  much  more  frequent, 
and  is  chiefly  the  tr  of  the  word  FlSTC  ,  mopheth,  a 
splendid  or  conspicuous  work,  a  "miracle"  (Ex  4 
21  ;  11  9,  etc),  often  conjoined  with  'otkoth,  "signs" 
(Ex  7  3;  Dt  6  22;  131.2;  3^11;  Neh  9"t  10, 
etc).'  Other  frequent  words  are  X5S  ,  paid',  X~3  , 
pclc',  a  "marvel,"  "miracle"  (Ex  3  20;  15  1  1  ;  Josh 
3  5;  Isa  9  6,  in  "wonderful  counsellor,"  etc).  In 
the  NT  the  ordinary  vb.  is  6av/j.dfa,  tluiumdzo,  and 
the  most  frequent  noun  is  r^pas,  terns,  a  "marvel," 
"portent,"  answering  in  its  meaning  to  Hob  paid'. 
As  in  the  OT  the  "wonder"  is  chiefly  a  miraculous 
work,  so  in  the  Gospels  the  feeling  of  wonder  is 
chiefly  drawn  out  by  the  marvelous  displays  of 
Christ's  power  and  wisdom  (Alt  15  31;  Mk  6  51; 
Lk  4  22,  etc). 

Wonderful,  that  which  excites  or  calls  forth 
wonder,  is  in  the  OT  chiefly  the  tr  of  paid'  or  pele' 
(2  S  1  20;  Ps  40  3;  Isa  28  29,  etc);  in  the  NT 
of  (lidUHidsios  (once,  Mt  21  15). 

For  "wondered"  in  Lk  8  25;  11  14,  RV  has 
"marvelled"  (of  9  43);  in  the  OT  also  "marvel- 
lous" frequent  Iv  for  "wondrous,"  etc,  (1  Ch  16  9; 
Job  9  10;  Ps  96  3;  105  2).  W.  L.  WALKEH 

WOOD,  wood.     See  BOTANY;    FOREST;    TREES. 

WOOD  OF  EPHRAIM  (2  S  18  6).  See  EPH- 
UAIM,  FOREST  OF. 

WOOF,  woof  P"ir,  'm'ft/i,  "mixture,"  "woof" 
[Lev  13  48ff]j.  See  WARP. 


WOOL,  wool  ("TCS  ,  qt'incr;  epiov,  erion)  :  Wool 
and  flax  were  the  fibers  most  used  by  the  ancient 
weavers.  Wool  was  used  principally  for  the  out- 
side garments  (Lev  13  48  ff;  Prov  31  13;  Ezk 
34  3;  IIos  2  5.9).  Syrian  wool  is  found  on  the 
world's  markets  today,  but  it  is  not  rated  as  first 
quality,  partly  because  it  is  so  contaminated  with 
thorns,  straw  and  other  foreign  matter  which  be- 
come entangled  with  the  wool  while  the  sheep  are 
wandering  over  the  barren,  rocky  mountain  sides 
in  search  of  food.  Extensive  pastures  are  almost 
unknown. 

Two  kinds  of  wool  are  sold:  (1)  That  obtained 
by  shearing.  This  is  removed  from  the  animal  as 
far  as  possible  in  one  piece  or  fleece  usually  without 
previous  washing.  The  fleeces  are  gathered  in 
bales  and  carried  to  a  washing-place,  which  is  usually 
one  of  the  stony  river  beds,  with  but  a  small  stream 
flowing  through  it  during  the  summer.  The  river 
bed  is  chosen  because  the  rocks  are  clean  and 
free  from  little  sticks  or  straw  which  would  cling 
to  the  washed  wool.  The  purchaser  of  this  washed 
wool  submits  it  to  a  further  washing  with  soap, 
ishnan  (alkali  plant),  "soapwort,"  or  other  cleans- 
ing agent  (see  FULLER),  and  then  cards  it  _before 
spinning  and  weaving.  The  wool  thus  obtained  is 
nearly  snow  white.  (2)  The  second  supply  of  wool 
is  from  the  tanneries  where  the  wool  is  removed 
from  the  skins  with  slaked  lime  (see  TANNING). 


3105 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


This  is  washed  in  many  changes  of  wafer  and  us,. 
for  stuffing  mattresses,  quilts,  etc,  hut  not  foi 
weaving. 

Gideon  used  a  fleece  of  wool  to  seek  an  omei 
from  God  (Jgs  6  37).  Mesha,  king  of  Moab,  sent 
a  large  quantity  of  wool  as  a  tribute  to  the  king  of 
Israel  (2  K  3  4). 

Wool  was  forbidden  to  be  woven  with  linen  (Dt 
22  11;  cf  Lev  19  ID).  Priests  could  not  wear 
woolen  garments  (Ezk  44  17).  Wool  dyed  scarlet 
with  the  kermcs  was  used  in  the  blood-covenant 
ceremony  (He  9  19;  cf  Lev  14;  Nu  19  6). 

The  whiteness  of  wool  was  used  for  comparison 
(1)  with  snow  (Ps  147  10);  (2)  with  sins  forgiven 
(Isa  1  18);  (3)  with  hair  (Dnl  7  9;  Rev  1  14). 

JAMKS  A.  PATCH 

WORD,  wurd:  The  commonest  term  in  the  OT 
for  "word"  is  "III"  ,  dabhar  (also  "matter,"  "thing"); 
in  the  NT  \6yos,  logos  ("reason,"  "discourse," 
"speech");  but  also  frequently  p%*a,  rhPma. 
Rhema  is  a  "word"  in  itself  considered;  logos  is  a 
spoken  word,  with  reference  generally  to  that  which 
is  in  the  speaker's  mind.  Some  of  the  chief  appli- 
cations of  the  terms  may  thus  be  exhibited: 

(1)  We   have  the   word   of   Jeh    (or   God;    see 
below)     (a)    as    the    revelation    to    the    patriarch, 
prophet,  or  inspired  person   (Gen  15  1 ;    Ex  20  1  ; 
Nu  22  3S,  etc);    (A)  as  spoken  forth  by  the  prophet. 
(Ex  4  30;    34  1;    2  K  7  1;    Isa  1  10,  etc).     (2) 
The   word    is   often    a   commandment,    sometimes 
equivalent  to   "the  Law"    (Ex  32  28;    Nu  20  24- 
Dt  6  6;     Ps  105  8;     119  11.17;     Isa  66  2,    etc).' 
(3)  As  a  promise  and  ground  of  hope  (Ps  119  25. 2S. 
38,  etc;    130  5,  etc).     (4)  As  creative,  upholding, 
and  preserving   (Ps  33  6;    cf  Gen  1  3  ff ;    Ps  147 
15.18;   He  1  3;    11  3;   2  Pet  3  5.7).     (5)  As  per- 
sonified  (in  Apoc,  Wisd  18  15;    Ecclus  1  5,  RYm 
"omitted  by  the  best  authorities").     (6)   As   per- 
sonal   (Jn  1  1).     Logos   in    Philo    and    Gr-Jewish 
philosophy  meant  both  reason  or  thought  and  its 
utterance,  "the  whole  contents  of  the  Divine  world 
of  thought  resting  in  the  Nous  of  God,  synonymous 
with  the  inner  life  of  God  Himself  and  correspond- 
ing to  the  logos  endidthctos  of  the  human  soul;   on 
the  other  hand,   it  is  the  externalizing  of  this  as 
revelation  corresponding  to  the  logos  prophorikos 
in  which  man's  thought  finds  expression'5  (Schultz). 
Cf  also  the  references  to  Creation  by  "the  word  of 
God"  and  its  personifications;    see  LOGOS;    incar- 
nated in  Jesus  Christ  (Jn  1  14;    1  Jn  1  1.2;    Rev 
19  13,   "His  name  is  called,  The  Word  of  God," 
Ho    Logos  ton    Thcou).     See  PERSON-  OP  CHRIST. 
(7)  Cannot  be  broken,  endureth  forever  (2  K  10  !()• 
Ps  119  89;    Isa  40  8,  etc).     (8)  A  designation  of 
the  gospel  of  Christ:  sometimes  simply  "the  word"; 
with  Jesus  "the  word  of  the  Kingdom"  (Mt  13  19- 
Mk  2  2;    Acts  4  4.29.31,  etc).     In  John's  Gospel 
Jesus  frequently  speaks  of  His  "word"  and  "works" 
as  containing   the   Divine  revelation  and  require- 
ments made  through  Him,  which  men  are  asked  to 
believe  in,   cherish  and  obey   (Jn  5  24;    6  63  68 
etc);   "the  words  of  God"  (Jn  3  34;  8  47;  14  10; 
17  8.14,  etc);   His  "word"   (logos  and  rhema)  is  to 
be  distinguished  from  Mid,  speech  (cf  Mt  26  73- 
Mk  14  70),  trd  "saying,"  Jn  4  42  (ver  41,  "Many 
more  believed  because  of  his  own  word"  [logos];  ver 
42,  "not  because  of  thy  saying"  [Mia],  RV  "speak- 
ing");  in  the  only  other  occurrence  of  Mia  in  this 
Gospel  (8  43)  Jesus  uses  it  to  distinguish  the  out- 
ward expression  from  the  inner  meaning,  "Why  do  ye 
not  understand  my  speech?"  (Mia),  "Even  because 
ye  cannot  hear  my  word"  (logos).     (9)  "Words"  are 
distinguished  from  "power"  (1  Cor  4  20;   1  Thess 
1  5);  are  contrasted  with  "deed"  (Mai  2  17;  1  Cor 
4  20;   1  Jn  3  18).     (10)  Paul  refers  to  "unspeak- 
able words"    (drrheta  rhtmata)  which  he  heard  in 


Woman 
Worker 


Paradise  (2  Cor  12  4),  and  to  "words  [logoi] 
which  the  Spirit  teacheth"  (L  Cor  2  13;.' 

For  "word"  RV  has  "commandment"  (NTu  4  45  etc)- 
for  "words,"  "things"  (Jn  7  «»;  8  :«);  9  22.40;  17  1)' 
_  sayings"  (Jn  10  21;  12  47.4S);  for  "  enticing  words," 
persuasiveness  of  speech"  (Col  2  4);  conversely 
"word"  for  "commandment"  (Xu  24  i:i-  27  14-  Josh 
8  8,  etc),  with  numerous  oilier  changes. 

\V.   L.  WALKICR 

WORK,  wilrk,  WORKS,  wurks:  "To  work"  in 
the  OT  is  usually  the  tr  of  HiT? ,  fa.«I/t,  or  of  b?E  , 
pa'al  (of  the  works  both  of  God  and  of  man),  and 
"work"  (noun)  is  most  frequently  the  tr  of  HC"^  , 
ma'dsch,  or  ~3X'P  ,  nrlakliah;  in  the  NT  of  tvepytu, 
cncrged,  tpya.frtj.ai,  crgdzainai  (and  compound;,  with 
tpyov,  ergon  (noun).  The  word  "works"  (erga)  is  a 
favorite  designation  in  Jn  for  the  wonderful  works 
of  Jesus  (5  3(5;  10  38;  15  24,  etc;  "miracles"  to 
us,  "works"  to  Him).  "Works"  is  used  by  Paul 
and  James,  in  a  special  sense,  as  denoting  (with 
Paul)  those  legal  performances  by  means  of  which 
men  sought  to  be  accepted  of  God,  in  contradis- 
tinction to  that  faith  in  Christ  through  which 
the  sinner  is  justified  apart  from  all  legal  works 
(Rom  3  27;  4  2.6,  etc;  Gal  2  16;  3  2.5.10),  "work- 
ing through  love"  (Gal  5  0;  1  Thess  1  3),  and  is 
fruitful  in  all  truly  "good  works,"  in  which  Christian 
believers  are  expected  to  abound  (2  Cor  9  8;  Eph 
2  10;  Col  1  10;  2  Thess  2  17,  etc).  When  James 
speaks  of  being  justified  by  "works"  as  well  as  by 
"faith"  (2  14-26),  he  has  in  view  those  works  which 
show  faith  to  be  real  and  vital.  "Dead  works"  avail 
nothing  (cf  He  9  14;  10  24).  Judgment  is  accord- 
ing to  "works"  (Alt  16  27,  RV  "deeds,"  m  "Gr 
'doing,'"  praxis;  Rom  2  6;  1  Pet  1  17,  etc),  the  new 
life  being  therein  evidenced.  A  contrast  between 
"faith"  and  "good  works"  is  never  drawn  in  the  NT. 
See,  further,  JUSTIFICATION.  W.  L.  WALKER 

WORKER,  wur'ker,  WORKFELLOW,  wilrk'- 
fel-o,  WORKMAN,  wurk'man  (HTH  ,  hdrdsh,  b?E  , 
pd\il;  ^p-yo.TT]s,  crgdlcs,  ervvep-yos,  suncrgox) :  "Worker" 
(artificer)  is  the  tr  of  hartisb,  "to  cut  in"  (1  K 
7  14,  "a  worker  in  brass"),  and  of  hardsh 
"artificer,"  etc  (1  Ch  22  15);  "workers  of  stone," 
rendered  "workman,"  "workmen"  (Isa  40  20'  44 
11;  Jer  10  3.9,  "artificer";  Hos  8  6);  *asah,  "to 
work,"  is  trd  "workers"  of  iniquity  (Ps  37  1,  "them 
that  work  unrighteousness";;  'dsdh  Meld'khdh,  "to 
do  work"  (2  K  12  14.15,  "workmen,"  "them  that 
did  the  work";  1  Ch  22  15;  2  Ch  24  13,  etc; 
Ezr  3  9);  'an'she  m'la'khah,  "men  of  work"  (1  Ch 
25  1,  "workmen,"  "them  that  did  the  work"); 
'dmel,  "working,"  "toiling"  (Jgs  5  26,  "put  .... 
tier  right  hand  to  the  workmen's  hammer");  palal, 
"to  act,"  "do,"  when  trd  "workers,"  is  joined  with 
"iniquity,"  "workers  of  iniquity"  (Job  31  3'  34 
8.22;  Ps  5  5;  6  8;  14  4,  etc;  Prov  10  29;  21  15); 
ergates,  "worker,"  is  trd  "workman"  (Mt  10  10, 
'laborer";  2  Tim  2  15;  Acts  19  25),  "workers" 
(of  iniquity)  (Lk  13  27),  "deceitful  workers"  (2 
Cor  11  13),  "evil  workers"  (Phil  3  2);  dunamis, 
'power,"  is  trd  "[workers  of]  miracles"  (1  Cor  12 
29m,  RV  "powers");  sunerged,  "to  work  with" 
(2  Cor  6  1,  "working  together  with  him"). 

Workfellow  is  the  tr  of  sunergos,  "joint  or  fellow- 
corker"  (Rom  16  21;  Col  4  11). 

Workmaster  occurs  in  Ecclus  38  27,  as  the  tr  of 
architekton. 

For  "of  ["with"]  cunning  work"  (Ex  26  1.31; 
28  6.15;  36  8.35;  39  3.8),  ARV  has  "the  work 
of  the  skilful  workman,"  ERV  "of  the  cunning 
vorkman";  instead  of  "I  was  by  him  as  one 
>rought  up  [with  him]"  (Prov  8  30),  RV  has 
'1  was  by  him  as  a  master  workman." 

W.   L.  WALKER 


World 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3106 


WORLD,  wu-ld  (COSMOLOGICAL,  koz-mo-loj'- 
i-kal): 

1     Terms  and  General  Meaning 
2.    Hebrew  Idea  of  the  World 

l"   OriKin^oTthc  World   -Biblical  and  Contrasted  Views 
5'  The  Cosmogony  of  Gen  1     Comparison  with  Baby- 
lonian and  Other  Cosmogonies 
6.   Gen  1  and  Science 

LlTEBATURE 

The  Hebrews  had  no  proper  word  for  "world" 
in  its  wide  sense,  of  "universe."     The  nearest   ap- 
proach to  such   a  meaning  is  in  the 
1    Terms       phrase    "the   heavens   and   the   earth" 
and  (den  1  1,  etc).     Even  this,  in  a  physi- 

General  cal  reference,  does  not  convey  the 
Meaning  modern  idea,  for  the  earth  is  still  the 
center  with  which  heaven  and  the 
heavenly  bodies  are  connected  as  adjuncts  It  is 
here  however,  to  be  remembered  that  to  the  Ileb 
mind  the  physical  world  was  not  the  whole.  Be- 
yond were  the  heavens  where  God's  throne  was, 
peopled  by  innumerable  spiritual  intelligences, 
whose  host's  worshipped  and  obeyed  Him  (Gen  28 
12-  Ps  103  19-21,  etc).  Their  conception  of  the 
universe  was  thus  enlarged,  but  the  heavens,  jn  this 
sense,  would  not  be  included  in  the  "world.  lor 
"world,"  in  its  terrestrial  meaning,  several  Heb 
words  are  used.  The  AV  thus  occasionally  renders 
the  word  Vrrf,  "earth"  (the  rendering  is  retained 
in  RV  in  Isa  23  17;  Jer  25  2<>;  in  Ps  22  27;  Isa 
62  11,  it  is  changed  to  its  proper  meaning  earth  ); 
'oldni,  "age,"  twice  rendered  "world"  in  A\  (Ps  73 
12;  Keel  3  11),  is  changed  in  RV— in  the  latter 
case  into  "eternity."  The  chief  word  for  "world' 
in  tin;  sense  of  the  habitable  earth,  the  abode  of  man, 
with  its  fulness  of  created  life,  is  tebhel—a  poetical 
term  (1  S  2  8;  2  S  22  1C,;  Job  18  IS;  34  l|i; 
37  12;  Ps  9  8;  18  15,  etc)— answering  to  the  Gr 
(rikownene. 

In  the  NT  a  frequent  word  for  "world  is  mon, 
"age"  (Mt  12  32;  13  22.3'.).40.4<);  24  3;  Mk  4  I'.l; 
Lk^lG  S;  Rom  12  2;  He  1  2,  etc).  RV  notes  in 
these;  cases  "age"  in  m,  and  sometimes  changes  in 
text,  into  "of  old"  (thus  AHV  in  Lk  1  70;  Acts  3 
4>1)  "ages  "  "times,"  etc,  according  to  the  sense  (cf 
1  Cor  10  11;  He  6  f>;  9  2<>;  2  Tim  1  9;  Tit  1  2, 
etc)  Most  generally  the  Gr  word  used  is  kdsmos, 
the  "ordered  world"  (e.g.  Mt  4  S;  5  14;  26  i:i; 
Mk  8  :•!(>;  Jn  1  9;  8  12;  Acts  17  24;  Rom  1  8.20, 
etc).  The  wider  sense  of  "all  creation,"  or  "uni- 
verse" (see  above  on  the  OT),  is  expressed  by  such 
phrases  as  pdntn,  "all  things"  (Jn  1  3),  pdsa  he 
ktisis,  "the  whole  creation"  (Rom  8  22). 

Two  errors  are  to  be  avoided  in  framing  a  repre- 
sentation of  the  Heb  conception  of  the  world.  (1) 
The  attempt  should  not  be  made  to 
2.  Hebrew  find  in  the  Bib.  statements  precise 
Idea  of  the  anticipations  of  modern  scientific  dis- 
World  coveries.  The  relations  of  the  Bib. 

teaching  to  scientific  discovery  are 
considered  below.  Here  it  is  enough  to  say  that 
the  view  taken  of  the  world  by  Bib.  writers  is  not 
that  of  modern  science,  but  deals  with  the  world 
simply  as  we  know  it — as  it  lies  spread  out  to  ordi- 
nary view — and  things  are  described  in  popular 
language  as  they  appear  to  sense,  not  as  telescope, 
microscope,  and  other  appliances  of  modern  knowl- 
edge reveal  their  nature,  laws  and  relations  to  us. 
The  end  of  the  narration  or  description  is  through- 
out religious,  not  theoretic.  (2)  On  the  other  hand, 
the  error  is  to  be  avoided  of  forcing  the  language  of 
popular,  often  metaphorical  and  poetic,  description 
into  the  hard-and-fast  forms  of  a  cosmogony  which 
it  is  by  no  means  intended  by  the  writers  to  yield. 
It  is  true  that  the  Hebrews  had  no  idea  of  our 
modern  Copernican  astronomy,  and  thought  of  the 
earth  as  a  flat  surface,  surmounted  by  a  vast  ex- 


panse of  heaven,  in  which  sun,  moon  and  stars  were 
placed,    and    from    whose   reservoirs   the   rain   de- 
scended.    But   it  is  an  exaggeration  of  all  this  to 
speak,  as  is  sometimes  done,  as  if  the  Hebrews  were 
children  who  thought  of  the  sky  as  a  solid  vault 
(Gen  1  6-S;      Job  37  18),     supported     on    pillars 
(Job  26  11),  and  pierced  with  windows  (Gen  7  11; 
Isa  24  18),  through  which  the  rains  came.     "The 
world  is  a  solid  expanse  of  earth,  surrounded  by 
and  resting  on  a  world-ocean,  and  surmounted  by  a 
rigid  vault  called  the  'firmament,'  above  which  the 
waters  of  a  heavenly  ocean  are  spread"  (Skinner). 
The  matter  is  carried  farther  when  elaborate  re- 
semblances are  sought  between  the  Heb  and  Bab 
cosmogonies     (see    below).     Such    representations, 
though  common,  are  misleading.     Language  is  not 
to  be  pressed  in  this  prosaic,  unelastic  way.     It  is 
forgotten  that   if  the  "firmament"  or  "heaven"  is 
sometimes  spoken  of  as  a  solid  vault,  it  is  at  other 
limes   compared   to  a  "curtain"   stretched  out  (Ps 
104  2;    Isa  40  22),  or  a  "scroll"  that  can  be  rolled 
up  (Isa  34  4);   if  "windows"  of  heaven  are  once  or 
twice  mentioned,  in  many  other  places  there  is  a 
quite  clear  recognition  that  the  rain  comes  from  the 
clouds  in  the  air  (Jgs  6  4;    Job  36  28;    Ps  77  17, 
etc) ;  if  the  earth  is  somct  hues  spoken  of  as  a  "circle 
(Isa  40  22),   at  other  times  it   has   "corners"   and 
"ends"    (Isa  11  12;    Dt  33  17;    Job  37  3;    Ps  19 
6,  etc);    if  sun,   moon  and  stars  arc  figured  as  if 
attached  to  the  firmament— "fixed  as  nails,"  as  one 
has  put  it — "from  which  they  might  be  said  to  drop 
off"  (Isa  14  12,  etc),  far  more  frequently  the  sun  is 
represented  as  pursuing  his  free,   rejoicing  course 
around  the  heavens  (Ps  19  S.O,  etc),  the  moon  as 
"walking"    in    brightness    (Job  31  2G),    etc.     The 
proper  meaning  of  the  word  rukl^  is  simply  "ex- 
panse," and  the  pellucid  vault  of  the  heavens,  in 
which  the  clouds  hung,  and  through  which  the  sun 
traveled,  had  probably  for  the  Hebrews  associations 
not  very  different  from  what  it  has  to  the  average 
mind  of  today.     The  earth,  itself  composed  of  "dry 
land"  and  "seas"  (Gen  1  9.10),  the  former  with  its 
mountains,  valleys  and  rivers,  may  have  been  con- 
ceived  of  as  encircled  by  an  ocean— the  circular 
form  being  naturally  suggested  by  the  outline  of  the 
horizon.     A  few  passages  convey  the  idea  of  depths 
within  or  beneath,  as  well  as  around  the  solid  earth 
(Gen  7  11;   Dt  33  13)— a  thought  again  suggested 
by  springs,  wells,  floods,  and  similar  natural  phe- 
nomena—but there  is  no  fixity  in  these  representa- 
tions.    One  place  in  Job  (26  7)  has  the  bold  idea 
of  the  earth  as  hung  in  free  space — a  near  approach 
to  the  modern  conception. 

The  ideas  formed  of  the  extent  of  the,  world  were  natu- 
rally limited  by  the  geographical  knowledge  of  the 
Hebrews,  and  expanded  as  that  knowledge 
o  T*  T?_+  „+ increased.  At  no  time,  however  was  it  so 
3.  Its  i*Xtent  limited  as  might  be  supposed.  The 'I  ABLE 
OF  NATIONS  (q.v.)  in  Gen  1Q  shows  a 
wide  knowledge  of  the  different  peoples  of  the  world, 
lifter  their  tongues,  in  their  lands,  in  their  nations" 
(vs  20.31).  The  outlook  to  the  VV.  was  bounded  by 
the  Mediterranean  ("great  sea,  ISu  34  <>;  Ezk  47  10. 
etc),  with  its  "islands"  (Gen  10  5;  Isa  11  11.  etc),  to 
Tarshish  (Spain?)  in  the  extreme  W  To  the  N  .was 
the  great  empire  of  the  Hittites  (Josh  14:1  K  10  29, 
etc)  N  and  E.,  across  the  desert,  beyond  Syria,  lay 
the  familiar  region  of  Mesopotamia  (Aram-Naharaim. 
Ps  60? title),  with  Ararat  (Gen  8  4)  still  farther  Is  .;  and 
southward,  in  the  Tigris-Euphrates  valley.  *£«  ancient 
and  powerful  empires  of  Assyria  and  Babylonia  (Gen 
2  14"  10  10.11),  with  Media  and  Elam  (Gen  10  2.22), 
ft  a  later  time  Persia  (Est  1  1),  farther  E  TotheS.L 
between  the  Red  Sea  and  the  Pers  Gulf,  lay  the  great 
peninsula  of  Arabia,  and  to  the  W.  of  the  Red  Sea.  SW 
of  Canaan,  the  mighty  Egypt,  Isra el  s  never-forgotten 
••land  of  bondage"  (Kx  20  2,  etc).  S.  of  Eg yp t  was 
Ethiopia.  Of  more  distant  peoples,  India  is  first  men- 
tioned in  Est  1  1 ;  8  9.  but  trade  with  it  must  have  been 
as  early  as  the  days  of  Solomon  On  the  dim  horizon 
are  such  peoples  as  Gomer  (the  Cimmerians  N.  of  the 
Euxine.  Gen  10  2;  Ezk  38  6)  and  Magog  (Gen  10  2. 
Ezk  38  2,  the  Scythians  [?]);  probably  even  China  is 
intended  by  "the  laud  of  Simm"  m  Isa  49  12.  lu  the 


3107 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


World 


apocryphal  books  and  the  NT  the  geographical  area  is 
perceptibly  widened.  Particularly  do  Asia  Minor, 
Macedonia,  Greece  and  Italy,  with  their  islands,  cities, 
etc,  come  clearly  into  view.  A  list  like  (hat  in  Acts  2 
9-11  of  the  representatives  of  peoples  present  at  the  day 
of  Pentecost  gives  a  vivid  glimpse  of  the  extent  of  the 
Jewish  religious  connection  at  this  period  (cf  Acts  8 
27  ff). 

From  thcfirst  there  has  been  abundant  speculation 
in  religion  and  philosophy  as  to  how  the  world  came 

to  be — whether  it  was  eternal,  or  had 
4.  Origin  a  commencement,  and,  if  it  began  to 
of  World —  be,  how  it  originated.  Theories  were, 
Biblical  and  as  they  are  still,  numberless  and  vari- 
Contrasted  ous.  Some  cosmogonies  were  purely 
Views  mythological  (Bab,  Hesiod);  some  were 

materialistic  (Democritus,  Epicurus — 
"concourse  of  atoms");  some  were  demiurgic  (Plato 
in  Timaeus — an  eternal  matter  formed  by  a  demi- 
urge); some  were  emanational  (Gnostics — result  of 
overflowing  of  fulness  of  Divine  life  in  "aeons"); 
some  were  dualistic  (Parsism,  Manicheism — good 
and  evil  principles  in  conflict);  some  imagined  end- 
less "cycles" — alternate  production  and  destruction 
(Stoics,  Buddhist  kalpas)',  many  were  pantheistic 
(Spinoza — an  eternal  "substance,"  its  "attributes" 
necessarily  determined  in  their  "modes";  Hegel, 
"absolute  spirit,"  evolving  by  logical  necessity); 
some  are  pessimistic  (Schopenhauer — the  world  the 
result  of  an  irrational  act  of  "will" ;  hence  necessarily 
evil),  etc. 

In  contrast  with  these  conflicting,  and  often 
foolish  and  irrational,  theories,  the  Bib.  doctrine 
of  the  origin  of  the  world  stands  alone  and  unique. 
It  is  unique  because  the  view  of  God  on  which  it 
rests  is  unique.  According  to  the  teaching  of  the 
Bible,  from  its  first  page  to  its  last,  God  is  a  free, 
personal  Spirit,  one,  omnipotent,  holy,  and  the  world 
originates  in  a  free  act  of  His  almighty  will  (Gen 
1  1;  Ps  33  9;  He  11  3;  Rev  4  11,  etc),  is  con- 
tinually upheld  by  His  power,  ruled  by  His  provi- 
dence, and  is  the  sphere  of  the  realization  of  His 
purpose.  As  against  theories  of  the  eternity  of 
the  world,  accordingly,  it  declares  that  the  world 
had  a  beginning  (Gen  1  1);  as  against  dualism,  it 
declares  that  it  is  the  product  of  one  almighty  will 
(Dt  4  35;  Isa  45  7;  1  Cor  8  6,  etc);  as  against 
the  supposition  of  an  eternal  matter,  it  declares  that 
matter  as  well  as  form  takes  its  origin  from  God 
(Gen  1  1;  He  11  3);  as  against  pantheism  and  all 
theories  of  necessary  development,  it  affirms  the 
distinction  of  God  from  His  world,  His  transcend- 
ence over  it  as  well  as  His  immanence  in  it,  and  His 
free  action  in  creation  (Eph  4  6;  Rev  4  11);  as 
against  pessimism,  it  declares  the  constitution,  aim 
and  end  of  the  world  to  be  good  (Gen  1  31;  Ps  33 
5;  Mt  6  45,  etc).  To  the  OT  doctrine  of  the  origin 
of  the  world  the  NT  adds  the  fuller  determination 
that  the  world  was  created  through  the  agency  of 
the  "Word"  (Logos),  or  Son  (Jn  1  3;  Col  1  16, 
17;  He  1  2.3,  etc). 

No  stronger  proof  could  be  afforded  of  the  truth 
and  sublimity  of  the  Bib.  account  of  the  origin  of 

things  than  is  given  by  the  comparison 
6.  Cosmog-  of  the  narrative  of  creation  in  Gen  1 — • 
ony  of  Gen  2  4,  with  the  mythological  cosmogonies 
1 — Compar-  and  theogonies  found  in  other  reli- 
ison  with  gions.  Of  these  the  best  known,  up 
Babylonian  to  the  time  of  recent  discoveries,  were 
and  Other  the  Bab  account  of  the  creation  pre- 
Cosmog-  served  by  Berosus,  a  priest  of  Babylon 
onies  in  the  3d  cent.  BC,  and  the  Theogony  of 

the  Gr  Hesiod  (9th  cent.  BC).  Hesiod's 
poem  is  a  confused  story  of  how  from  Chaos  came 
forth  Earth,  Tartarus  (Hell),  Eros  (Love)  and  Ere- 
bus (Night).  Erebus  gives  birth  to  Aether  (Day). 
Earth  produces  the  Heaven  and  the  Sea.  Earth 
and  Heaven,  in  turn,  become  the  parents  of  the 


elder  gods  and  the  Titans.  Cronus,  one  of  these 
gods,  begets  /ens.  Zeus  makes  war  on  his  father 
Cronus,  overthrows  him,  and  thus  becomes  king 
of  the  Olympian  gods.  The  descent  of  these  is  then 
traced.  How  far  this  fantastic;  theory,  commencing 
with  Chaos,  and  from  it  generating  Nature  and 
the  gods,  has  itself  an  original  affinity  with  Bab 
conceptions,  need  not  here  be  discussed.  It  hardly 
surpasses  in  crudeness  the  late  shape;  of  the  Bab 
cosmogony  furnished  by  Berosus.  Here,  too,  Chaos 
— "darkness  and  water" — is  the  beginning,  and 
therefrom  are  generated  strange  and  peculiar  forms, 
men  with  wings  and  with  two  faces,  or  with  heads 
and  horns  of  goats,  bulls  with  human  heads,  dogs 
with  four  bodies,  etc.  Over  this  welter  a  woman 
presides,  called  Omorka.  Belus  appears,  cuts  the 
woman  in  twain,  of  one  half  of  her  makes  the  heavens, 
and  of  the  other  the  earth,  sets  the  world  in  order, 
finally  makes  one  of  the  gods  cut  off  his  head,  and 
from  the  blood  which  flowed  forth,  mixed  with  earth, 
forms  intelligent  man.  That  Berosus  has  not  es- 
sentially misrepresented  the  older  Bab  conceptions 
is  now  made  apparent  through  the  recovery  of  the 
Bab  story  itself. 

In  1875  George  Smith  discovered,  among  the  tablets 
in  the  British  Museum  brought  from  the  great  library 
of  the  Assyr  king  Assurbanipal  (7th  cent.  BC),  .several 
on  which  was  inscribed  the  Chaldaean  story  of  creation, 
and  next  year  published  his  work,  The  Chaldean  Account 
of  Gen.  The  tablets,  supplemented  by  other  fragments, 
have  since  been  repeatedly  trd  by  other  hands,  the  most 
complete  tr  being  that  by  L.  W.  King  in  his  Seven  Tab- 
lets of  Creation  in  the  Babylonian  and  Axsyruin  Lii/i'/nlx 
concerning  the  Creation  of  the.  World.  The  story  of  these 
tablets,  still  in  many  parts  fragmentary,  is  now  familiar 
(see  BABYLONIAN  KEI.ICIO.V  AND  LITERATURE).  Here, 
too,  the  origin  of  all  things  is  from  Chaos,  the  presiding 
deities  of  which  are  Apsu  and  Tiamat.  The  gods  are 
next  called  into  being.  Then  follows  a  long  mythological 
description,  occupying  the  first  four  tablets,  of  the  war 
of  Marduk  with  Tiamat,  the  conflict  issuing  in  the  woman 
being  cut  in  two,  and  heaven  being  formed  of  one  half 
and  earth  of  the  other.  The  5th  tablet  narrates  the  ap- 
pointing of  the  constellations.  The  6th  seems  to  have 
recorded  the  creation  of  man  from  the  blood  of  Marduk. 
This  mythological  epic  is  supposed  by  many  scholars 
to  be  the  original  of  the  sublime,  orderly,  monotheistic 
account  of  the  creation  which  stands  at  the  commence- 
ment of  our  Bible.  The  Bab  story  is  (without  proof) 
supposed  to  have  become  naturalized  in  Israel,  and  there 
purified  and  elevated  in  accordance  with  the  higher  ideas 
of  Israel's  religion.  We  cannot  subscribe  to  this  view, 
which  seems  to  us  loaded  with  internal  and  historical 
improbabilities.  Points  of  resemblance  are  indeed 
alleged,  as  in  the  use  of  the  Ileb  word  f'/tdm  for  "deep" 
(Gen  1  2),  cognate  with  Tiamat;  the  separation  of 
heaven  and  earth  (Gen  1  6-8) ;  the  appointing  of  the 
constellations  (Gen  1  14-1X),  etc.  But  in  the  midst 
of  the  scanty  resemblances,  how  enormous  an;  the  con- 
trasts, which  all  writers  acknowledge!  Gunkel,  e.g., 
says,  "Anyone  who  compares  this  ancient  Bab  myth 
with  Gen  1,  will  perceive  at  once  hardly  anything  else 
than  the  infinite  distance  between  them.  There  the 
heathen  gods,  inflamed  against  each  other  in  wild  war- 
fare, hen;  the  One,  who  speaks  and  it  is  done"  (Israel  und 
liabylonien,  24).  One  can  understand  how  these  wild 
polytheistic  legends  could  arise  from  corruption  of  a 
purer,  simpler  form,  but  not  vice  versa.  The  idea  of  a 
"deep,"  or  chaos,  must  have  preceded  the  fanciful  and 
elaborate  creation  of  the  woman-monster,  Tiamat;  the 
distinction  of  sky  and  earth  would  go  before  the  coarse 
idea  of  the  cutting  of  the  woman  in  two;  and  so  with  the 
other  features  of  supposed  resemblance.  Professor  (May 
has  recently  shown  reason  for  challenging  the  whole  idea 
of  the  borrowing  of  these  myths  from  Babylonia,  and 
declares  that  "it  is  unreasonable  to  assume  that  the 

Heb  f  horn  is  a  modification  of  a  Bab  pattern To 

say,  therefore,  that  the  origin  of  the  Marduk-Tiamat 
myth  is  to  be  found  in  a  Nippurian  version,  originally 
known  as  Ellil-Tiamat,  is  utterly  without  foundation" 
(Amurru,  50).  Much  more  reasonably  may  we  adopt 
the  hypothesis  of  Dillmann,  Kittel,  Hommel,  Oettli,  etc, 
that  the  relation  between  these  Bab  legends  and  the  Bib. 
narratives  is  one  of  cognateness,  and  not  of  derivation. 
These  traditions  came  down  from  a  much  older  source 
and  are  preserved  by  the  Hebrews  in  their  purer  form 
(see  the  writer's  POT,  402-9). 

The  superiority  of  the  Gen  cosmogony  to  those 
of  other  peoples  is  generally  admitted,  but  objec- 
tion to  it  is  taken  in  the  name  of  modern  science. 
The  narrative  conflicts,  it  is  said,  with  both  modern 
astronomy  and  modern  geology;  with  the  former,  in 


World 
Wormwood 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3108 


regarding  the  earth  as  the  center  of  the  universe, 
and  with  the  latter  in  its  picture  of  the  order  and 

stages  of  creation,  and  the  time  occu- 
6.  Gen  1  pied  in  the  work  (for  a  full  statement 
and  Science  of  these  alleged  discrepancies,  see  Dr. 

Driver's  (!en,  Intro).  On  the  general 
question  of  the  harmony  of  the  Bible  with  science 
it  is  important  that  a  right  standpoint  be  adopted. 
It  has  already  been  stated  that  it  is  no  part  of 
the  aim  of  the  Bib.  revelation  to  anticipate  the 
discoveries  of  19th-  and  20th-cent.  science.  The 
world  is  taken  as  it  is,  and  set  in  its  relations 
to  God  its  Creator,  without  consideration  of  what 
after-light  science  may  throw  on  its  inner  consti- 
tution, laws  and  methods  of  working.  As  Calvin, 
with  his  usual  good  sense,  in  his  comm.  on  den  1 
says,  "Moses  wrote  in  the  popular  style,  which, 
without  instruction,  all  ordinary  persons  endowed 

with  common  sense  are  able  to  understand 

He  does  not  call  us  up  to  heaven;  but  only  pro- 
poses things  that  lie  open  before  our  eyes."  This  of 
itself  disposes  of  the  objection  drawn  from  astron- 
omy, for  everywhere  heaven  and  earth  are  spoken 
of  according  to  their  natural  appearances,  and  not 
in  the  language  of  modern  Copernican  science.  To 
this  hour  we  use  the  same  language  in  speaking  of 
the  sun  rising  and  setting. 

The  further  objection  that  modern  knowledge 
discredits  the  Bib.  view  by  showing  how  small  a 
speck  the  world  is  in  the  infinitude  of  the  universe 
is  really  without  force.  Whatever  the  extent  of  the 
universe,  it  remains  the  fact  that  on  this  little  planet 
life  has  effloresced  into  reason,  and  we  have  as  yet 
no  ground  in  science  for  believing  that  anywhere 
else  it  has  ever  done  so  (cf  Dr.  A.  R.  Wallace's 
striking  book,  J/V;//,s  Place  in  the  Universe).  Even 
supposing  that  there  are  any  number  of  inhabited 
worlds,  this  does  not  detract  from  the  soul's  value 
in  this  world,  or  from  Clod's  love  in  the  salvation  of 
its  sinful  race.  The  objection  drawn  from  geology, 
though  80  much  is  sometimes  made  of  it,  is  hardly 
more  formidable.  It  does  not  follow  that,  because 
the  Bible  does  not  teach  modern  science,  we  are 
justified  in  saying  that  it  contradicts  it.  On  the 
contrary,  it  may  be  affirmed,  so  true  is  the  stand- 
point of  the  author  in  this  first  chapter  of  Gen,  so 
Divine  the  illumination  with  which  he  is  endowed, 
so  unerring  his  insight  into  the  order  of  Nature, 
that  there  is  little  in  his  description  that  even  yet, 
with  our  advanced  knowledge,  we  need  to  change. 
To  quote  words  used  elsewhere,  ''The  dark  watery 
waste  over  which  the  Spirit  broods  with  vivifying 
power,  the  advent  of  light,  the  formation  of  an 
atmosphere  or  sky  capable  of  sustaining  the  clouds 
above  it,  the  settling  of  the  great  outlines  of  the 
continents  and  seas,  the  clothing  of  the  dry  land 
with  abundant  vegetation,  the  adjustment  of  the 
earth's  relation  to  sun  and  moon  as  the  visible  rulers 
of  its  day  and  night,  the  production  of  the  great  sea- 
monsters  and  reptile-like  creatures  and  birds,  the 
peopling  of  the  earth  with  four-footed  beasts  and 
cattle,  last  of  all,  the  advent  of  man — is  there  so 
much  of  all  this  which  science  requires  us  to  cancel?" 
(Orr,  Christian  View  of  God  and  the.  World,  421). 
_  Even  in  regard  to  the  "days" — the  duration  of 
time  involved — there  is  no  insuperable  difficulty. 
The  writer  may  well  have  intended  symbolically 
to  represent  the  creation  as  a  great  week  of  work, 
ending  with  the  Creator's  Sabbath  rest.  In  view, 
however,  of  the  fact  that  days  of  24  hours  do  not 
begin  to  run  till  the  appointment  of  the  sun  on  the 
4th  (lay  (Gen  1  14),  it  seems  more  probable  that 
he  did  not  intend  to  fix  a  precise  length  to  his 
creation  "days."  This  is  no  new  speculation. 
Already  Augustine  asks,  "Of  what  fashion  these 
days  were  it  is  exceeding  hard  or  altogether  impos- 
sible to  think,  much  more  to  speak"  (De  Civ.  Dei, 


xi.6,  7);  ami  Thomas  Aquinas  in  the  Middle  Ages 
leaves  the  matter  an  open  question.  Neither  does 
this  narrative,  in  tracing  the  origin  of  all  things  to 
the  creative  word  of  God,  conflict  with  anything 
that  may  be  discovered  by  science  as  to  the  actual 
method  of  creat  ion,  e.g.  in  evolution.  Science  itself 
is  gradually  coming  to  see  the  limits  within  which 
the  doctrine  of  evolution  must  be  received,  and, 
kept  within  these  limits,  there  is  nothing  in  that 
doctrine  which  brings  it  into  conflict  with  the  Bib. 
representations  (see  ANTHROPOLOGY;  CREATION; 
EVOLUTION-;  also  the  writer's  works,  God's  Image 
in  Man  and  Sin  as  a  Problem  of  To/lay}.  Whatever 
may  be  said  of  the  outward  form  of  the  narrative, 
one  has  only  to  look  at  the  great  ideas  which  the 
first  chapter  of  Gen  is  intended  to  teach  to  see 
that  it  conveys  those  great  truths  on  the  origin  and 
ordering  of  things  which  are  necessary  as  the  basis 
of  a  true  religious  view  of  the  world,  no  matter  to 
what  stage  knowledge  or  science  may  attain.  This 
chapter,  standing  at  the  head  of  the  Bible,  lays  the 
foundation  for  all  that  follows  in  the  Bib.  view 'of  the 
relation  of  God  to  the  world,  and  yields  the  ground 
for  our  confidence  that,  as  all  things  are  created  by 
God  and  dependent  on  Him,  so  everything  in  Nature 
and  providence  is  at  His  disposal  for  the  execution 
of  His  purposes  and  the  care  and  protection  of  His 
people. _  The  story  of  creation,  therefore,  remains 
to  all  time  of  the  highest  religious  value. 

LITERATI-HE. — See  arts.  "Earth"  in  Smith's  DB  and 
in  EH.  The  other  works  mentioned  above  may  be  con- 
sulted. A  valuable  extended  discussion  of  the  word 
"Firmament"  may  be  seen  in  Essay  V  of  the  older  work 
Aids  to  Faith  (London,  Murray),  220-30. 

JAMKS  Oim 

WORLD,  END  OF  THE.  See  ESCHATOLOGY  OF 
THE  NT;  HEAVEXS,  NEW. 

WORLD  (GENERAL) :  In  AV  this  word  represents 

several  originals,  as  follows:    yiS  ,   'cref,  "earth"; 

^"7^,  hedhcl,  "the  underworld";   "H  , 

1.  Original    heledh,  "lifetime,"  "age";  ^"12,  'dldrn, 
Words  "indefinite  time,"  "age";  bin,  tebhel, 

"fertile  earth";  7??,  gt,  "earth";  aluv, 
aidn,  /'age,"  "indefinite  time,"  w'ith  frequent  con- 
notation of  the  contents  of  time,  its  influences  and 
powers;  OIKOV^VTJ,  oikoumene,  "inhabited  earth," 
the  world  of  man  considered  in  its  area  and  distri- 
bution; last,  and  most  frequently,  K6<T/jLos,  koxmos, 
properly  "order,"  with  the  suggestion  of  beauty; 
thence  the  material  universe,  as  the  great  example 
of  such  order;  then  the  moral  universe,  the  total 
system  of  intelligent  creatures,  perhaps  sometimes 
including  angels  (1  Cor  4  9),  but  as  a  rule  human 
beings  only;  then,  in  view  of  the  fact  of  universal 
human  failure,  humanity  in  its  sinful  aspect,  the 
spirit  and  forces  of  fallen  humanity  regarded  as 
antagonistic  to  God  and  to  good,  "all  around  us 
which  does  not  love  God." 

Of  the  above  terms,  some  need  not  detain  us; 

'm-f,  as  the  original  to  "world,"  occurs  only  thriccj 

hedhel,  once,  heledh,  twice,  'o/aw,  twice 

2.  Remarks  (including  Keel  311),  ye,  once.     The 

most  important  of  the  series,  looking  at 
frequency  of  occurrence,  are  tebhel,  aidn,  oikoumene, 
kosmos.  On  these  we  briefly  comment  in  order. 

(1)  Tebhel. — This,    as   the   original   to    "world," 
occurs  in  35  places,  of  which  15  are  found  in  Pss  and 
9  in  the  first  half  of  Isa.     By  derivation  it  lias  to  do 
with  produce,  fertility,  but  this  cannot  be  said  to 
come  out  in  usage.     The  word  actually  plays  nearly 
the  same  part  as  "globe"  with  us,  denoting  man's 
material  dwelling-place,  as  simply  as  possible,  with- 
out moral  suggestions. 

(2)  Aion. — We  have  indicated  above  the  special- 
ity of  this  word.     It  is  a  time,  with  the  suggestion 
always  of  extension  rather  than  limit  (so  that  it 


3109 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


World 
Wormwood 


lends  itself  to  phrases  denoting  vast  if  not  endless 
extension,  such  as  "to  the  aions  of  aions,"  rendered 
"forever  and  ever,"  or  "world  without  end").  In 
He  1  2;  11  13,  it  denotes  the  "aeons"  of  the 
creative  process.  In  numerous  places,  notably  in 
Mt,  it  refers  to  the  "dispensations"  of  redemption, 
the  present  "age"  of  grace  and,  in  distinction,  the 
"age"  which  is  to  succeed  it — "that  world,  and  the 
resurrection"  (Lk  20  35).  Then,  in  view  of  the 
moral  contents  of  the  present  state  of  things,  it 
freely  passes  into  the  thought  of  forces  and  influ- 
ences tending  against  faith  and  holiness,  e.g.,  "Be 
not  fashioned  according  to  this  world"  (Rom  12  2). 
In  this  connection  the  Evil  Power  is  said  to  be  "the 
god  of  this  world"  (2  Cor  4  4). 

(3)  The  word  oikoumene  occasionally  means  the 
Rom  empire,  regarded  as  preeminently  the  region 
of  set  tied  human  life.     So  Lk  2  1;  Acts  11  28,  and 
perhaps  Rev  3  10,  and  other  apocalyptic  passages. 
In  He  it  is  used   mystically  of  the  Empire  of  the 
Messiah  (1  0;   2  5). 

(4)  Kosmon. — We  have  remarked  above  on  this 
word,   with   its  curious  and   suggestive  history   of 
meanings.     It  may  be  enough  here  to  add  that  that 
history  prepares  us  to  find  its  reference!  varying  by 
subtle  transitions,  even  in  the  same  passage.     See 
e.g.  Jn  1  10,  where  "the  world"  appears  first  to 
denote  earth  and  man  simply  as  the  creation  of  "the 
Word,"  and  then  mankind  as  sinfully  alienated  from 
their  Creator.     Via  are  not  surprised  accordingly 
to  read  on  the  one  hand  that  "God  ....  loved  the 
world"  (Jn  3  10),  and  on  the  other  that  the  Chris- 
tian must  "not  love  the  world"  (1  Jn  2  15).     The 
reader  will  find  the  context  a  sure  clue  in  all  cases, 
and  the  study  will  be  pregnant  of  instruction. 

II  AX  OLE  Y    DlJXELM 

WORM,    wurm,     SCARLET-WORM,    skar'let- 

tola\ith,  P.375P ,  toldfath,  from  V  ^P>  ,  tdla';  cf  Arab. 

*JL> ,  tala,  "to  stretch  the  neck";  usually  with 
*— '  ^  ^ 

"'ITZJ ,  shdnl,  "bright"  (cf  Arab.  (tfx-w«,  sand,  "a 
flash  of  lightning"),  the 
term  "'IttJ  Fis^P, ,  tola*ath 
shdnl  being  trd  "scarlet" 
in  EV;  also  in  the  same 
sense  the  following: 
r,""P  ^fty  ,  s}tfnl  Idla'ath 
(Lev  14  4),  rr.P,  tola* 
(Isa  1  18,  EV  "crimson"), 
n^TT ,  s/idnlm  (Prov  31 
21;  Isa  1  18,  EV  "scar- 
let"), ^TD,  shdnl  (On  38 
28;  Josh' 2  18;  Cant  4  3); 
also  K6/cKos,  kokkos,  and 
K&KKIVOS,  kokkinos  (Mt  27 
28;  He  9  19;  Rev  17  3.4; 
18  12.10).  (2)  HE-!,  rim- 
indh,  from  V  C'C'l ,  rd- 
mam,  "to  putrefy"  (Ex  16 

20);   cf  Arab.  .»»  ,  ramm,  "to  become  carious"   (of 

bone).     (3)  DC,  sds  (only  in  Isa  51  8);  cf  Arab. 

? 
IJHJ+H,  stis,  "worm";   ff^s,  sts,  "moth"  (Mt  6  19). 

(4)  L2T?n'T  ,  zoMllm  (Mic  7  17,  AV   "worms/7  RV 
"crawling  things"),  from  V   "HT  ,  zdhal,  "to  crawl." 

(5)  (TKW\T]£,  skolcx  (Mk  9  48),  tr/ccoXij/ci/tywros,  skole- 
kdbrotos,  "eaten  of  worms"  (Acts  12  23). 

Besides  the  numerous  passages,  mostly  in  Ex, 
referring  to  the  tabernacle,  where  tola^ath,  with 
shdnl,  is  trd  "scarlet,"  there  are  eight  passages  in 


ti. 


^ 


Scarlet  Insect. 


which  it,  is  tr'1  "worm."  These  denote;  worms  which 
occur  in  decaying  organic  matter  or  in  sores  (Ex  16 
20;  Isa  14  1 1 ;  66  24 j;  or  which  are  destructive 
to  plants  (Dt  28  39;  Jon  4  7);  or  tin;  word  is  used 
as  a  term  of  contempt  or  depreciation  (Job  25  (i; 
Ps  22  0;  Isa  41  14).  Rinnndh  is  used  in  the  same 
senses.  It  occurs  with  toltfath  as  a  synonym  in 
Ex  16  24;  Job  25  0;  Jsa  14  11.  Jn  Job  25  0,  EV, 
rendering  both  tol/i'alh  and  rittntidh  by  "worm," 
'eitdxh  and  'Culhdin  by  "man."  and  introducing  twice 
"that  is  a,"  makes  a  painfully  monotonous  distich 
out  of  the  concise  and  elegant  original,  in  which  not 
one  word  of  the  first  part  is  repeated  in  the  second. 
,S'«.s  (Isa  51  8),  EV  "worm,"  is  the  larva  of  the 
clothes-moth.  See  MOTH.  In  none  of  the  cases 
here  considered  are  worms,  properly  so  called,  de- 
noted, but  various  insect  larvae  which  are  commonly 
called  "worms,"  e.g.  "silkworm,"  "apple-worm," 
"meal-worm,"  etc.  These  larvae  arc;  principally 
those  of  Diptera  or  flies,  Cohoptcm  or  beetles,  and 
Lepidoptera  or  butterflies  and  moths. 

Tiila'ath  ftJinnl,  "scarlet,"  is  the  scarlet-worm,  r?rmcs 
vrrmilio,  a  scale-insect  which  feeds  upon  the  oak,  and 
which  is  used  for  producing  a  red  dye.  It  is  called  by 
the  Arabs  dade/i,  "a  worm."  a  word  also  used  for  various 
insect  larvae.  It  is  also  called  kirmiz,  whence  "crimson" 
and  the  generic  name  Cvmirx.  This  scarlet-worm  or 
scale-insect  is  one  of  the  family  Cm-ridne  of  the  order 
Rhynchota  or  Hemiptera.  The  female  is  wingless  and 
adheres  to  its  favorite  plant  by  its  long,  sucking  beak, 
by  which  it  extracts  the  sap  on  which  it  lives.  After 
once  attaching  itself  it  remains  motionless,  and  when 
dead  its  body  shelters  the  eggs  which  have  been  deposited 
beneath  it.  The  males,  which  are  smaller  than  tin; 
females,  pass  through  a  complete  metamorphosis  and 
develop  wings.  The  dye  is  made  from  the  dried  bodies 
of  the  females.  Other  species  yielding  red  dyes  are 
Porphyrophora  polonica  and  Coccus  cacti.  The  last 
named  is  the  Mexican  cochineal  insect  which  feeds  on 
the  cactus  and  which  largely  supplanted  the  others  after 
the  discovery  of  America.  Aniline  dyes  have;  in  turn  to 
a  great  extent  superseded  these  natural  organic  colors, 
which,  however,  continue  to  be  unsurpassed  for  some 
purposes.  See  COLORS. 

ALKHED  ELY  DAY 


Wormwood   (Artemisia  absinthium). 

WORMWOOD,  wurm'wood  (n:J5  ,  la'anuh  [Dt 
29  IS;  Prov  5  4;  Jer  9  15;  23  ]/>;'  Lam  3  15.19; 
Am  57;  6  12,  AV  hemlock];  a\J/iv0os,  dpsinthos 


Wormwood,  Star 
Worship 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3110 


[Rov  8  11]):  What  (lie  Hob  ht'dnah  may  have  been 
is  obscure;  it  is  t  lear  it  was  a  bitter  substance  and 
it  is  usually  associated  with  "gall";  in  LXX  it  is 
variously  tr'1,  but  never  by  r;/W/i//io.s-,  ''wormwood." 
Nevertheless  all  ancient  tradition  supports  the  EY 
tr.  The  genus  Arli'mittid  (N.( ).  Compositav),  ''worm- 
wood," has  five  species  of  shrubs  or  herbs  found  in 
Pal  (Post),  any  one  of  which  may  furnish  a  bitter 
taste.  The  name  is  derived  from  the  property  of 
many  species  acting  as  anthelmint ics,  while  other 
varieties  are  used  in  the  manufacture  of  absinthe. 
E.  \Y.  G.  ]\ I. VSTKH MAN- 
WORMWOOD,  THE  STAR:  In  Rev  8  11,  the 
name  is  figurative,  given  to  a  great  star  which,  at  the 
sounding  of  the  third  angel's  trumpet,  fell  from 
heaven  upon  the  third  part  of  the  rivers  and  on  the 
fountains  of  Ihe  waters,  turning  them  to  a  bitter- 
ness of  which  many  died.  Wormwood  is  used  of 
bitter  calamities  (cf  Lam  3  1~>),  and  may  here  indi- 
cate some  judgment,  inflicted  under  a  noted  leader, 
affecting  chiefly  the  internal  sources  of  a  country's 
prosperity.  Older  expositors,  applying  the  earlier 
trumpets  to  the  downfall  of  the  Rom  empire,  saw 
in  the  star  a  symbol  of  the  barbarian  invasions  of 
Attila  or  Cienserie.  See  also  ASTKOXOMV,  I,  8. 

JAMKS  OKU 

WORSHIP,  wiVship  (AS  urortlixcipe,  wi/rth- 
sci/jx',  "honor,"  from  worth,  icurth,  "worthy," 
'"honorable,"  and  acipc,  ''ship"): 

1.  Terms 

2.  OT  Worship 

3.  XT  Worship 

4.  Public  Christian  Worship 

LlTEKATUKB 

Honor,  reverence,  homage,  in  thought,  feeling,  or 
act,  paid  to  men,  angels,  or  other  "spiritual"  beings, 
and  figuratively  to  other  entities,  ideas,  powers  or 
qualities,  but  specifically  and  supremely  to  Deity. 

The  principal  OT  word  isHHu,',  KJiiUnlh,  "depress," 
"bow  down,"  "prostrate"  (Ilithpael),  as  in  Ex  4 
31,  "bowed  their  heads  and  wor- 
1.  Terms  shipped";  so  in  94  other  places.  The 
context  determines  more  or  less  clearly 
whether  the  physical  act  or  the  volitional  and  emo- 
tional idea  is  intended.  The  word  is  applied  to 
acts  of  reverence  to  human  superiors  as  well  as 
supernatural.  RV  renders  it  according  to  its  physi- 
cal aspect,  as  indicated  by  the  context,  "bo\\rd 
himself  down"  (AV  "worshipped,"  C!en  24  o2;  cf 
23  7;  27  21),  etc). 

Other  words  are:  "°oC  ,  y<~iuJitt<lh,  "  prostrate,"  occurring 

in  Isa  44  15.17.1'.);  46  0,  but  rendered  (EV)  "fall  down." 

In  Dnl  2  -Iti;  3  r>.i>.7.10.15.LS.2.s,  it  (.Aram.  ~}C ,  *•'.<//«'</'<) 
is  "worship"  (KV),  7  t  associated  with  "falling  down" 
and  5  t  witli  "serve."  "Q"  ,  'alikadli,  "work,"  "labor," 

"  serve, "is  rendered  "worship"  by  EV  in  2  K  10  19. '21  fl": 
"  the  worshippers  [servants]  of  Haul."  In  Isa  19  21  KV 

has  "  worship  with  sacrifice  and  oblation  "  ( A  V  "  do  sacri- 
fice"). Isa  19  23  A\'  has  "served,"  K  V  "worship." 
^237,  'Cifubh,  "carve,"  "fabricate,"  "fashion,"  is  once 

given  "worship,"  i.e.  "make  [an  object  of]  worship"  (Jer 
44  li),  AHVm  "portray"). 

The  OT  idea  is  Ilierefore  the  reverential  attitude 
of  mind  or  body  or  both,  combined  with  the  more 
generic  notions  of  religious  adoration,  obedience, 
service. 

The  principal  NT  word  (f>9  t)  is  TrpoaKwtu,  pros- 
knuco,  "kiss  [the  hand  or  the  ground]  toward," 
hence  often  in  the  oriental  fashion  bowing  prostrate 
upon  the  ground;  accordingly,  LXX  uses  it,  for  the 
Ilithpael  of  sJtuhuh  (hishtah&wah),  "prostrate  one- 
self." It  is  to  render  homage  to  men,  angels, 
demons,  the  devil,  the  "beast,"  idols,  or  to  God.  It 
is  rendered  16  t  to  Jesus  as  a  beneficent  superior; 
at  least  24  t  to  God  or  to  Jesus  as  Clod.  The  root 
idea  of  bodily  prostration  is  much  less  prominent 
than  in  the  OT.  It  is  always  trd  "worship." 


and  its  various  cognates,   atlia.fofj.ai.,   sel/dzomai,   tvo-e/Sec, 
cusebro,   0toa-t^>j?,   theoseMs,    o-ejSacrnxa.    srba.ima.      Its  roc 


in  the  ol)servance  of  the  rites  instituted  for  His  worship." 
It  is  tpi"  worship"  in  Acts  7  42;  24   14  AV,  but  "serve,  " 
AKV:    "serve  the  host  of  heaven,"  "servo  I  the  Uod  of 
" 


, 

n  te  secon      two  specic.       n  m  an     many 

other  cases  both  AV  and  RV  give  "serve,"  the  meaning 
not  being  confined  to  worship;  but  cf  Lk  2  37  KV: 
"worshipping  [AV  "served"]  with  fastings  and  suppli- 
cations." Rom  1  25  gives  both  srbazomai  and  laln-uii 
in  their  specific  meanings:  "worshipped  [venerated]  and 
served  [religiously]  the  creature."  <5ofa,  d6.ru,  "glory" 
(Lk  14  10  AV:  "Thou  shalt  have  worship,"  is  a  sur- 
vival of  an  old  Kng.  use,  rightly  discarded  in  RV).  #P>J<T- 
Ktia,  tlirixkiia  (Col  2  1^),  "a  voluntary  humility  and 
worshipping  of  the  angels"  (ARVm  "an  act  of  rever- 


rfwKopos,  ncoh-oriix,  "temple-sweepers,"  "temple-keeper' 
(Acts  19  35),  has  its  true  meaning  in  KV,  but  "  worship- 
per" is  needed  to  complete  the  idea,  in  our  modern  idiom. 
In  the  Apoc  the  usage  is  the  same  as  in  the  XT,  the 
vbs.  used  being,  in  the  order  of  their  frequency,  pruxkunto, 
xtliomai,  thrcxkcuo,  and  latrtiiu. 

The  NT  idea  of  worship  is  a  combination  of  the 
reverential  attitude  of  mind  and  body,  the  general 
ceremonial  and  religious  service  of  God,  the  feeling 
of  awe,  veneration,  adoration;  with  the  outward 
and  ceremonial  aspects  approaching,  but  not  reach- 
ing, the  vanishing  point.  The  total  idea  of  worship, 
however,  both  in  the  OT  and  NT,  must  be  built  up, 
not  from  the  words  specifically  so  tr'1,  but  also,  and 
chiefly,  from  the  whole  body  of  description  of  wor- 
shipful feeling  and  action,  whether  of  individuals 
singly  and  privately,  or  of  larger  bodies  engaged  in 
the  public  services  of  sanctuary,  tabernacle,  temple, 
synagogue,  upper  room  or  meeting-place. 

Space  permits  no  discussion  of  the  universality 
of  worship  in  some  form,  ranging  from  superstitious 
fear  or  fetishism  to  the  highest  spiritual  exercise 
of  which  man  is  capable;  nor  of  the  primary  motive 
of  worship,  whether  from  a  desire  to  placate,  in- 
gratiate, or  propitiate  some  higher  power,  or  to 
commune  and  share  with  him  or  it,  or  express  in- 
stinctive or  purposed  devotion  to  him.  On  the 
face  of  the  Bible  narratives,  the  instinct  of  com- 
munion, praise,  adoring  gratitude  would  seem  to 
bo  the  earliest  moving  force  (cf  Gen  4  3.4,  Cain, 
Abel;  Rom  1  1S-25,  the  primitive  knowledge  of 
God  as  perverted  to  creature-worship;  Gen  8  20, 
Noah's  altar;  and  Gen  12  7,  Abram's  altar). 
That-  propitiation  was  an  early  element  is  indicated 
probably  by  Abel's  offering  from  the  flock,  cer- 
tainly by  the  whole  system  of  sacrifice.  Y\  hatever 
its  origin,  worship  as  developed  in  the  OT  is  the 
expression  of  the  religious  instinct  in  penitence, 
prostration,  adoration,  and  the  uplift  of  holy  joy 
before  the  Creator. 

In  detail,  OT  worship  was  individual  and  private, 
though  not  necessarily  secret,  as  with  Eliezer  (Gen 
24  2(>f),    the    expression    of    personal 
2.  OT  gratitude  for  the  success  of  a  mission, 

Worship  or  with  Moses  (Ex  34  8),  seeking  God's 
favor  in  intercessory  prayer;  it  was 
sometimes,  again,  though  private,  in  closest  associa- 
t  ion  with  others,  perhaps  with  a  family  significance 
(Gen  8  20,  Noah;  Gen  12  7;  22  5,  Abraham:  "I 
and  the  lad  will  go  yonder;  and  ....  worship"); 
it  was  in  company  with  the  "great  congregation,' 
perhaps  partly  an  individual  matter,  but  gaining 
blessing  and  force  from  the  presence  of  others  (Ps 
42  4:  "I  went  with  the  throng  ....  keeping  holy- 
day");  and  it  was,  as  the  national  spirit  developed, 


3111 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  HII1LE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Wormwood,  Star 
Worship 


the  expression  of  the  national  devotion  (1  Ch  29  20: 

"And  all  the  assembly  ....  worshipped  Jeh,  and 
the  king").  In  this  public  national  worship  the 
truly  devout  Jew  took  his  greatest  delight,  for  in  it 
were  inextricably  interwoven  together,  his  patriot- 
ism, his  sense  of  brotherhood,  his  feeling  of  soli- 
darity, his  personal  pride  and  his  personal  piety. 

The  general  public  worship,  esp.  as  developed  in 
the  Temple  services,  consisted  of:  (1)  Sacrificial 
acts,  either  on  extraordinary  occasions,  as  at  the 
dedication  of  the  Temple,  etc,  when  the  blood  of  the 
offerings  flowed  in  lavish  profusion  (2  Ch  7  5), 
or  in  the  regular  morning  and  evening  sacrifice's, 
or  on  the  great  annual  days,  like  the  Day  of  Atone- 
ment. (2)  Ceremonial  acts  and  post  ure  of  reverence 
or  of  adoration,  or  symbolizing  the  seeking  and 
receiving  of  the  Divine  favor,  as  when  the  high 
priest  returned  from  presenting  incense  offering  in 
the  holy  place,  and  the  people  received  his  bene- 
diction with  bowed  heads,  reverently  standing  (2 
Ch  7  6),  or  the  worshippers  prostrated  themselves 
as  the  priests  sounded  the  silver  trumpets  at  the 
conclusion  of  each  section  of  the  Levites'  chant.  (3) 
Praise  by  the  official  minis) rants  of  the  people  or 
both  together,  the  second  probably  to  a  very  limited 
extent.  This  service  of  praise  was  either  instru- 
mental, silver  "trumpets  and  cymbals  and  instru- 
ments of  music,"  or  it  might  be  in  vocal  song,  the 
chant  of  the  Levites  (very  likely  the  congregation 
took  part  in  some  of  the  antiphonal  psalms);  or  it 
might  be  both  vocal  and  instrumental,  as  in  the 
magnificent  dedicatory  service  of  Solomon  (2  Ch 
6  13),  when  "the  trumpeters  and  singers  were  as 
one,  to  make  one  sound  to  be  heard  in  praising  and 
thanking  Jeh."  Or  it  might  be  simply  spoken: 
"And  all  the  people  said,  Amen,  and  praised  Jeh" 
(1  Ch  16  30).  How  fully  and  splendidly  this 
musical  element  of  worship  was  developed  among 
the  Hebrews  the  Book  of  Ps  gives  witness,  as  well 
as  the  many  notices  in  Ch  (1  Ch  15,  16,  25;  2  Ch 
5,  29,  30,  etc).  It  is  a  pity  that  our  actual  knowl- 
edge of  Heb  music  should  be  so  limited.  (4)  Public 
prayer,  such  as  is  described  in  Dt  26,  at  the  dedi- 
cation of  the  Temple  (2  Ch  6,  etc'),  or  like  Pss  60, 
79,  80.  Shorter  forms,  half  praise,  half  prayer, 
formed  a  part  of  the  service  in  Christ's  time.  "  (.">) 
The  annual  feasts,  with  their  characteristic  cere- 
monies. See  PASSOVER;  TABERNACLE,  etc.  Places 
of  worship  are  discussed  under  ALTAR;  HIGH  PLACE; 
SANCTTAKY;  TABEHXACLIO;  TEMPLE,  etc. 

In  the  NT  we  find  three  sorts  of  public  worship, 
the  temple-worship  upon  OT  lines,  the  synagogue- 
worship,  and  the  worship  which  grew 
3.  NT  up  in  the  Christian  church  out  of  the 

Worship  characteristic  life  of  the  new  faith. 
The  synagogue-worship,  developed  by 
and  after  the  exile,  largely  substituted  the  book  for 
the  symbol,  and  thought  for  the  sensuous  or  object 
appeal;  it  was  also  essentially  popular,  homelike, 
familiar,  escaping  from  the  exclusiveness  of  the 
priestly  service.  It  had  four  principal  parts:  (1) 
the  recitation  of  the  «s7<''//w',  composed  of  Dt  6  4-9; 
11  13-21,  and  Nu  15  37-41,  and  beginning,  "Hear 
[.s7r//m'],  ()  Israel:  Jeh  our  Cod  is  one  Jeh";  (2) 
prayers,  possibly  following  some  set  form,  perhaps 
repeating  some  psalm;  (3)  the  reading  by  male  indi- 
viduals of  extracts  from  the  Law  and  the  Prophets 
selected  by  the  "ruler  of  the  synagogue,"  in  later 
years  following  the  fixed  order  of  a  lectionary,  as 
may  have  been  the  case  when  Jesus  "found  the 
place";  (4)  the  taryum  or  condensed  explanation  in 
the  vernacular  of  the  Scriptures  read. 

It  is  questioned  whether  singing  formed  a  part 
of  the  service,  but,  considering  the  place  of  music 
in  Jewish  religious  life,  and  its  subsequent  large 
place;  in  Christ  ian  worship,  it  is  hard  to  think  of  it 
as  absent  from  the  synagogue. 


Public  Christian  worship  necessarily  developed 
along  the  lines  of  the  synagogue  and  not  the  temple, 

since  the  whole  sacrificial  and  cere- 
4.  Public  inonial  system  terminated  for  Chris- 
Christian  tianity  with  the  life  and  death  of  Jesus. 
Worship  The  perception  of  this,  however,  was 

gradual,  as  was  the  break  of  Jewish 
Christians  with  both  synagogue  and  temple.  Jesus 
Himself  held  the  temple  in  high  honor,  loved  to 
frequent  it  as  His  Father's  house,  reverently  ob- 
served the  feasts,  and  exhibited  the  characteristic 
attitude  of  the  devout  but  un-Pharisaic  Israelite 
toward  tin;  temple  and  its  worship.  Yet  by  speak- 
ing of  Himself  as  "greater  than  the  temple"  (Alt 
12  G)  and  by  ([noting  Hos  6  0,  "I  desire  good- 
ness and  not  sacrifice,"  He  indicated  the  relative 
subordinateness  of  the  temple  and  its  whole  system 
of  worship,  and  in  His  utterance  to  the  woman  of 
Samaria  He  intimated  the  abolition  both  of  the 
whole  idea  of  the  central  sanctuary  and  of  the  entire 
ceremonial  worship:  "Neither  in  this  mountain, 
nor  in  Jerus,  shall  ye  worship  the  Father";  "They 
that  worship  him  must  worship  in  spirit  and 
truth"  (Jn  4  21.24).  His  chief  interest  in  the 
temple  seems  to  have  been  as  a  "house  of  prayer" 
and  an  opportunity  to  reach  and  touch  the  people. 
We  cannot  help  feeling  that  with  all  His  love  for 
the  holy  precincts,  He;  must  have;  turned  with  relief 
from  the  stately,  formal,  distant,  ceremonial  of  the 
temple,  partly  relieved  though  it  was  by  the  genuine 
religious  passion  of  many  worshippers,  to  the  freer, 
more  vital,  closer  heart -worship  of  the  synagogue, 
loaded  though  that  also  was  with  form,  tradition, 
ritual  and  error.  Here  He  was  a  regular  and 
reverent  attendant  and  participant  (Mk  1  21.39; 
31;  62;  Lk  6  6).  Jesus  did  not  Himself  pre- 
scribe public  worship  for  His  disciples,  no  doubt 
assuming  that  instinct  and  practice,  and  His  own 
spirit  and  example,  would  bring  it  about  sponta- 
neously, but  He  did  seek  to  guard  their  worship  from 
the  merely  outward  and  spectacular,  and  laid  great 
emphasis  on  privacy  and  real  "innerness"  in  it 
(Mt  6  1-1S,  etc).  Synagogue-worship  was  prob- 
ably not  abandoned  with  Pentecost,  but  private 
brotherhood  meetings,  like  that  in  the  upper 
chamber,  and  from  house  to  house,  were  added. 
The  young  church  could  hardly  have  "grown  in 
favor  with  the  people,"  if  it  had  completely  with- 
drawn from  the  popular  worship,  either  in  temple  or 
synagogue,  although  no  attendance  on  the  latter  is 
ever  mentioned.  Possibly  the  Christians  drew 
themselves  together  in  a  synagogue  of  their  own,  as 
did  the  different  nationalities.  The  reference  in 
Jas:  "if  there;  come  unto  your  synagogue"  (2  2), 
while  not  conclusive,  since  "synagogue"  may  have 
gained  a  Christian  significance  by  this  time,  never- 
theless, joined  with  the  trad  it  ions  concerning  James's 
ascetic  zeal  and  popular  repute,  argues  against  such 
a  complete  separation  early.  Necessarily  with  the 
development  into  clearness  of  the  Christian  ideas, 
and  with  the  heightening  persecution,  together  with 
the  hard  industrial  struggle  of  life,  the  observance 
of  the  Jewish  Sabbath  in  temple  or  synagogue,  and 
of  the  Christian's  Lord's  Day,  grew  incompatible. 
Yet  the  full  development  of  this  must  have  been 
rather  late  in  Paul's  life.  Compare  his  missionary 
tactics  of  beginning  his  work  at  tin;  synagogue,  and 
his  custom  of  observing  as  far  as  possible  the  Jewish 
feasts  (Acts  20  10;  1  Cor  16  8).  Our  notions  of 
the  worship  of  the  early  church  must  be  constructed 
out  of  the  scattered  notices  descriptive  of  different 
stages  in  the  history,  and  different  churches  present 
different  phases  of  development.  The  time  was 
clearly  the  Lord's  Day,  both  by  the  Jewish  churches 
(Jn  20  19.20)  and  by  the  C,r  (Acts  20  7;  1  Cor 
16  2).  The  daily  meeting  of  Acts  2  40  was  prob- 
ably not  continued,  no  mention  occurring  later. 


Worship 
Wrest 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3112 


There  are  no  references  to  yearly  Christian  festivals, 
though  the  wide  observance  in  the  sub-apostolic 
period  of  the  Jewish  Passover,  with  references  to  the 
death  and  resurrection  of  Jesus,  and  of  Pentecost 
to  commemorate  the  gift,  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  argues 
for  their  early  use.  The  place  was  of  course  at 
first  in  private  houses,  and  the  earliest  form  of 
Christian  church  architecture  developed  from  this 
model  rather  than  the  later  one  of  the  basilica. 
1  Cor  gives  rather  full  data  for  the  worship  in  this 
free  and  enthusiastic  church.  It  appears  that-  there 
were  two  meetings,  a  public  and  a  private.  The 
public  worship  was  open,  informal  and  missionary, 
as  well  as  edificatory.  The  unconverted,  inquirers 
and  others,  were  expected  to  be  present,  and  were 
frequently  converted  in  the  meeting  (1  Cor  14  24). 
It  resembled  much  more  closely  an  evangelical 
"prayer  and  conference  meeting  of  today  than 
our  own  formal  church  services.  There  is  no  inen- 
t  ion  of  official  ministrant  s,  t  hough  the  meet  ing  seems 
to  have  been  under  some  loose  guidance.  Any 
male  member  was  free;  to  take  part,  as  the  Spirit 
might  prompt,  esp.  in  the  line  of  his  particular 
"spiritual  gift"  from  God,  although  one  individual 
might  have  several,  as  Paul  himself.  Largely 
developed  on  synagogue;  lines,  but  with  a  freedom 
and  spirit  the  latter  must  have  greatly  lacked,  it  was 
composed  of:  (1)  Prayer  by  several,  each  followed 
by  the  congregational  "Amen."  (2)  Praise,  con- 
sisting of  hymns  composed  by  one  or  another  of  the 
brethren,  or  coming  down  from  the  earlier  days  of 
Christian,  perhaps  Jewish,  history,  like  the  Benc- 
dirtiix,  the  Maynificat,  the  \nnc  ilinn'ltix,  etc.  Por- 
tions of  these  newer  hymn-;  seem  to  be  imbedded 
here  and  there  in  the  NT,  as  at  Rev  5  9-13: 
"Worthy  art  them,"  etc  (cf  Rev  15  3;  11  17,  etc); 
also:  "He  who  was  manifested  in  the  flesh,  Justified 
in  tin1  spirit,  Seen  of  angels,  Preached  among  the 
nations,  Believed  on  in  the  world,  Received  up  in 
glory"  (1  Tim  3  10).  Praise  also  might  take  1 1n- 
form of  individual  testimony,  not  in  metrical  form 
(1  Cor  14  10).  (3)  Reading  of  the  Scripture  must 
have  followed,  according  to  the  synagogue  model. 
Paul  presupposes  an  acquaintance  with  the  OT 
Scriptures  and  the  facts  of  Jesus'  life,  death,  resur- 
rection. Instructions  to  read  certain  epp.  in  the 
churches  indicate  the  same.  (4)  Instruction,  as  in 

I  Cor  2  7;   6  f>,  teaching  for   edification.     (These 
passages,  however,  may  not  have  this  specific  ref- 
erence.)     (f>)   Prophesying,  when  men,  believed  by 
themselves  and  by  the  church  to  be  specially  taught 
by  the  Holy  Spirit,  gave  utterance  to  His  message. 
At  Corinth  these  crowded  on  one  another,  so  that 
Paul  had  to  command  them  to  speak  one  at  a  time. 
(6)  Following  this,  as  some  believe,  came  the  "speak- 
ing with  tongues,"  perhaps  fervent  and  ejaculatory 
prayers  "so  rugged  and  disjointed  that  the  audience 
for  the  most  part  could  not  understand"  until  some- 
one interpreted.     The  speaking  with  tongues,  how- 
ever, comprised  praise  as  well  as  prayer  (1  Cor  14 
10),  and  the  whole  subject  is  enshrouded  in  mystery. 
See  TONGUKS,   GIFT  OF.     (7)   The  meeting   closed 
with  the  benediction  and  with  the  "kiss  of  peace." 

The  "private  service"  may  have  followed  the 
other,  but  seems  more  likely  to  have  been  in  the 
evening,  the  other  in  the  morning.  The  disciples 
met  in  one  place  and  ate  together  a  meal  of  their 
own  providing,  the  agape,  or  love  feast,  symbolizing 
their  union  and  fellowship,  preceded  or  followed  by 
prayers  (Did.,  x),  and  perhaps  interspersed  by 
hymns.  Then  followed  the  "Lord's  Supper"  itself, 
according  to  the  directions  of  the  apostle  (1  Cor 

II  23-28). 

How  far  "Christian  worship"  was  "Christian"  in  the 
sense  of  being  directly  addressed  to  Christ,  is  not  easily 
answered.  We  must  not  read  into  their  mental  content 
the  fully  developed  Christology  of  later  centuries,  but 


it  is  hard  to  believe  that  those  who  had  before  them 
Thomas'  adoring  exclamation,  "  My  Lord  and  my  God!" 
the  saying  of  the  first  martyr.  "Lord  Jesus,  receive  my 
spirit,"  the  dictum  of  the  great  apostle,  "  Who,  existing 
in  the  form  of  God,"  the  utterances  of  He,  "And  let  all 
the  angels  of  God  worship  him,"  "Thy  throne,  O  God, 
is  forever  and  forever,"  and,  later,  the  prologue  of  Jn, 
and  the  ascriptions  of  praise  in  the  Apocalypse,  could 
have  failed  to  bow  down  in  spirit  before  Jesus  Christ, 
to  make  known  their  requests  through  Him,  and  to  lift 
up  their  adoration  in  song  to  Him,  as  according  to  Pliny's 
witness,  1 12  AD,  "they  sing  a  hymn  to  Christ  as  God." 
The  absolutely  interchangeable  way  in  which  Paul,  for 
instance,  applies  "Lord"  in  one  breath  to  the  Father, 
to  the  OT  Jeh,  and  to  Jesus  Christ  (Rom  10  11.13; 
14  4.0.8.11.12,  etc)  clearly  indicates  that  while  (rod  the 
Father  was,  as  He  must  be,  the  ultimate  and  principal 
object  of  worship,  the  heart  and  thought  of  God's  NT 
people  also  rested  with  adoring  love  on  Him  who  is 
"worthy  ....  to  receive  the  power  and  riches  and 
wisdom"  and  might,  and  glory,  and  honor  and  blessing." 
Tlie  angel  of  the  Apocalypse  would  not  permit  the  adora- 
tion of  the  seer  (Rev  22  0),  but  Jesus  accepts  the 
homage  of  Thomas,  and  in  the  Fourth  Gospel  declares 
it  the  duty  of  all  to  "honor  the  Son,  even  as  they  honor 
the  Father"  (Jn  5  23). 

The  classical  passages  for  Christian  worship  are 
Jn  4  23.24,  culminating  in  (m) :  "God  is  spirit :  and 
they  that  worship  him  must  worship  in  spirit  and 
truth.1'  and  Phil  3  3,  "who  worship  by  the  Spirit 
of  God."  These  define  its  inner  essence,  and  bar 
out  all  ceremonial  or  deputed  worship  whatever, 
except  as  the  former  is,  what  the  latter  can  never 
be,  the  genuine  and  vital  expression  of  inner  love 
and  devotion.  Anything  that  really  stimulates 
and  expresses  the  worshipful  spirit  is  so  far  forth  a 
legitimate  aid  to  worship,  but,  never  a  substitute  for 
it,  and  is  harmful  if  it  displaces  it.  Much,  perhaps 
most,  stately  public  worship  is  as  significant  to  ( Jod 
and  man  as  the  clack  of  a  Thibetan  prayer-mill. 
The  texts  cited  also  make  of  worship  something  far 
deeper  than  the  human  emotion  or  surrender  of  will; 
it  is  the  response  of  God's  Spirit  in  us  to  that  Spirit 
in  Him,  whereby  we  answer  "Abba,  Father,"  deep 
calling  unto  deep.  Its  object  is  not  ingratiation, 
which  is  unnecessary,  nor  propitiation,  which  _  has 
been  made  "once  for  all,"  nor  in  any  way  "serving" 
the  God  who  'needeth  not  to  be  worshipped  with 
men's  hands'  (Acts  17  25),  but  it  is  the  loving  at- 
tempt, to  pay  our  unpayable  debt  of  love,  the  ex- 
pression of  devoted  hearts,  "render[ing]  as  bullocks 
the  offering  of  our  lips"  (Hos  14  2).  For  detail  it 
is  not  a  physical  act  or  material  offering,  but  an 
at  tit  tide  of  mind:  "The  sacrifices  of  God  are  a  broken 
spirit";  "sacrifices  of  praise,  with  which  God  is  well 
pleased";  not  the  service  of  form  in  an  outward 
sanctuary,  the  presentation  of  slain  animals,  but  the 
service  of  love  in  a  life:  "Present  your  bodies  a  living 
sacrifice" ;  not  material  sacrifices,  but  spirit  ual :  your 
rat  ional  "service" ;  not  the  service  about  an  altar  of 
stone  or  wood,  but  about  the  sanctuary  of  human 
life  and  need;  for  this  is  true  religion  ("service," 
"worship,"  threskda),  "to  visit  the  fatherless  and 
widows  in  their  affliction";  not  the  splendor  of  shin- 
ing robes  or  the  sounding  music  of  trumpets  or 
organs,  but  the  worshipping  glory  of  holy  lives;  in 
real  fact,  "hallowing  Thy  name,"  "and  keeping  one- 
self unspotted  from  the  world."  The  public  worship 
of  God  in  the  presence  of  His  people  is  a  necessity 
of  the  Christian  life,  but  in  spiritual  Christianity 
the  ceremonial  and  outward  approaches,  if  it  does 
not  quite  reach,  the  vanishing  point. 

LITERATURE. — BDB;  Thayer's  AT  Lexicon  s.v. ;  arts. 
on  "Praise,"  "Worship,"  "Temple,"  "Church,"  "Prayer," 
in  IIDB,  Dn,  New  Sch-IIerz,  DCG;  comms.  on  Pss,  Ch, 
Cor;  Weizsiicker,  The  Apostolic  Age  of  the  Church,  II; 
Pfleiderer,  Das  Urrhrixtenthum  (ET) ;  Leqning,  Gemeinde- 
•cerfassung  tics  Urchristenthums;  Edersheim,  The  Temple. 
Its  Ministry  and  Service,  as  They  Were  at  the  Time  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  Life  and  Times  of  Jesus  the  Messiah;  Hort, 
The  Christian  Ecclesia;  Lindsay,  Church  and  the  Ministry 
in  the  Early  Centuries;  McGiffert,  A  History  of  Chris- 
tianity in  the  Apostolic  Age. 

PHILIP  WENDELL  CRANXELL 
WORSHIP,  IMAGE.     See  IMAGES. 


3113 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Worship 
Wrest 


WORSHIPPER,    wur'ship-er.     See    TEMPLE 
KEEPERS;  WORSHIP. 


WORTHIES,  wur'thi/  (T^X  ,  'ndfllr,  "majestic," 
"noble"  [cf  Jg.s  5  13,  etc]):  fn  Nah  2  5,  AV  "He 
shall  recount  his  worthies"  (m  "gallants"),  ERV 
"He  remembereth  his  worthies,"  ARV  "He;  rcrriern- 
bereth  his  nobles."  As  MT  stands,  the  Assyr  king 
hurriedly  summons  his  commanders  to  repel  the  as- 
sault, but  the  passage  is  obscure  and  the  text  quite 
possibly  in  need  of  emendation. 

WOT.    See  WIST,  WITTY,  WOT. 

WRATH,  rath,  roth,  rath  (ANGER)  (=1X  ,  'aph, 
from  J!^  ,  'anaph,  "to  snort,"  "to  be  angry";  op-yrj, 
ory?,  6v|A6s,  thumos,  6p-yi£o[Aai,  orgizomai)  '.  Desig- 
nates various  degrees  of  feeling,  such  as  sadness 
(I's  85  4),  a  frown  or  turning  away  of  the  face  in 
grief  or  anger  (2  Ch  28  19;  Jer  3  12),  indignation 
(I's  38  3),  bitterness  (Jgs  18  25),  fury  (Est  1  12), 
full  of  anger  ((Jen  4  ,5;  Jn  7  23),  snorting  mad 
(On  27  4.-,;  Alt  2  16). 

Wrath  is  used  with  reference  to  both  Cod  and 

man.     When  used  of  God  it  is  to  be  understood 

that  there  is  the  complete  absence  of 

1.  Divine       that    caprice    and    unethical    quality 
Wrath  so  prominent  in  the  anger  attributed 

to  the  gods  of  the  heathen  and  to  man. 
The  Divine  wrath  is  to  be  regarded  as  the  natural 
expression  of  the  Divine  nature,  which  is  absolute 
holiness,  manifesting  itself  against  the  wilful,  high- 
handed, deliberate,  inexcusable  sin  and  iniquity  of 
mankind.  God's  wrath  is  always  regarded  in  the 
Scripture  as  the  just,  proper,  and  natural  expression 
of  His  holiness  and  righteousness  which  must 
always,  under  all  circumstances,  and  at  all  costs 
be  maintained.  It  is  therefore  a  righleous  indig- 
nation and  compatible  with  the  holy  and  righteous 
nature  of  God  (Nu  11  1-10;  Dt  29  27;  2  S  6  7; 
Isa  5  25;  42  25;  Jer  44  6;  Ps  79  6).  The  ele- 
ment of  love  and  compassion  is  always  closely  con- 
nected with  God's  anger;  if  we  rightly  estimate  the 
Divine  anger  we  must  unhesitatingly  pronounce  it 
to  be  but  the  expression  and  measure  of  that  love 
(cf  Jer  10  24;  Ezk  23;  Am  3  2). 

Wrath,  when  used  of  man,  is  the  exhibition  of  an 

enraged  sinful  nature  and  is  therefore  always  inex- 

cusable (Gen  4  5.6;  49  7;  Prov  19  10; 

2.  Human     Job  5  2;  Lk  4  28;  2  Cor  12  10;  Gal 
Wrath  6  20;  Eph  4  31;  Col  3  8).     It  is  for 

this  reason  that  man  is  forbidden  to 
allow  anger  to  display  itself  in  his  life.  He  is  not 
to  "give  place  unto  wrath"  (Rom  12  19  m),  nor 
must  he  allow  "the  sun  to  go  down  upon  his  wrath" 
(Eph  4  26).  He  must  not  be  angry  with  his  brother 
(Mt  6  22),  but  seek  agreement  with  him  lest  the 
judgment  that  will  necessarily  fall  upon  the  wrathful 
be  meted  out  to  him  (Mt  6  25.26).  Particularly  is 
the  manifestation  of  an  angry  spirit  prohibited  in 
the  training  and  bringing  up  of  a  family  (Eph  6  4; 
Col  3  10).  Anger,  at  all  times,  is  prohibited  (Nu 
18  5;  Ps  37  8;  Rom  12  10;  Gal  6  10;  Eph  4  26; 
Jas  1  19.20). 

Wrath  or  anger,  as  pertaining  to  God,   is  very 
much  more  prominent  in  the  OT  than  in  the  NT. 

This  is  to  be  accounted  for  probably 

3.  Divine       because  the   NT   magnifies  the  grace 
Wrath  Con-  and  love  of  God  as  contrasted  with  His 
sistent  with  wrath;    at  least  love  is  more  promi- 
Love  nent  than  wralh  in  the  revelation  and 

teaching  of  Christ  and  His  apostles. 
Nevertheless,  it  must  not  be  thought  that  the  ele- 
ment of  wrath,  as  a  quality  of  the  Divine  nature, 
is  by  any  means  overlooked  in  the  NT  because  of 
the  prominent  place  there  given  to  love.  On  the 


contrary,  the  wrath  of  God  is  intensified  because  of 
the  more  wonderful  manifestation  of  His  grace, 
mercy  and  love  in  the  gift  of  His  Son  Jesus  Christ 
as  the  Saviour  of  the  world.  God  is  not  love  only: 
He  is  also  righteous;  yea,  "Our  God  is  a  consuming 
fire"  (He  12  20);  "It  is  a  fearful  thing  to  fall  into 
the  hands  of  .the  living  God"  (He  10  31).  No 
effeminate,  sentimental  view  of  the  Fatherhood  of 
God  or  of  His  mercy  and  loving-kindness  can  ex- 
clude the  manifestation  of  His  just,  righteous  and 
holy  anger  against  sin  and  the  sinner  because;  of  his 
transgression  (1  Pet  1  17;  He  10  20).  One  thing 
only  can  save  the  sinner  from  the  outpouring  of 
God's  righteous  anger  against  sin  in  the  day  of 
visitation,  namely,  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
as  the  Divinely  appointed  Redeemer  of  the  world 
(Jn  3  36;  Rom  1  16-lX;  5  0).  Nor  should  the 
sinner  think  that,  the  postponement,  or  the  omission 
(or  seeming  omission)  of  the  visitation  of  God's 
wrath  against  sin  in  the  present  means  the  total 
abolition  of  it  in  the  future.  Postponement  is  not 
abolition;  indeed,  the  .sinner,  who  continually  rejects 
Jesus  Christ,  and  the  salvation  which  God  has  pro- 
vided in  Him,  is  simply  'treasuring  up'  wrath  for 
himself  "in  the  day  of  wrath  and  revelation  of  1 1n- 
righteous  judgment  of  God;  who  [one  day]  will 
render  to  every  man  according  to  his  works:  .... 
to  them  that,  ....  obey  not  the  truth,  but  obey 
unrighteousness,  ....  wrath  and  indignation,  trib- 
ulation and  anguish,  upon  every  soul  of  man  1  hat 
worketh  evil"  (Rom  2  5-9;  2  Pet  3  10;  Rev  6 
16.17;  16  19;  19  15j.  See  RETRIBUTION,  5. 

God's  anger  while  slow,  and  not  easily  aroused  (Ps 
103  <S;  Isa  48  0;  Jon  4  2;  Xah  1  3),  is  to  he  dreaded 
(I's  2  12;  76  7;  90  11 ;  Mt  10  28);  is  not  to  be  pro- 
voked (Jer  7  10;  1  Cor  10  22);  when  visited,  in  the 
present  life,  should  be  borne  with  submission  (2  S  24  17' 
Lain  3  39.43;  Mie  7  !»);  prayer  should  be  earnestly 
made  for  deliverance  from  it  (Ps  39  10;  80  4;  Dnl  9 
1(5;  Hab  32);  it  should  be  the  means  of  leading  man  to 
repentance  (Isa  42  24.25;  Jer  4  S). 

Certain  specific  things  are  said  esp.  to  arouse;  God's 
anger:  continual  provocation  (Xu  32  14),  unbelief 
(Ps  78  21.22;  He  3  IS. 19),  impenitence  (Isa  9  13  14- 
Horn  2  5),  apostasy  (He  10  20.27),  idolatry  (Dt  32  19. 
20.22;  2  K  22  17:  Jer  44  3).  sin  in  God's  people  (Ps 
89  30-32;  Isa  47  (>),  and  it  is  manifested  esp.  against 
opponents  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  (Ps  2  235- 
1  Thess  2  10). 

There  is  a  sense,  however,  in  which  anger  is  the 
duty  of  man;  he  is  to  "hate  evil"  (Ps  97  10).  It 
is  not  enough  that  God's  people  should 
4.  Right-  love  righteousness,  they  must  also  be 
eous  and  angry  with  sin  (not  the  sinner).  A 
Unrighteous  man  who  is  incapable  of  being  angry 
Anger  at  sin  is  at  the  same  time  thereby  ad- 

judged to  be  incapable  of  having  a 
real  love  for  righteousness.  So  there  is  a  sense  in 
which  a  man  may  be  said  to  "be  ....  angry,  and 
sin  not"  (Eph  4  26).  Anger  at  the  sin  and  un- 
righteousness of  men,  and  because  their  sin  is 
grievous  to  God,  may  be  called  a  "righteous  indig- 
nation." Such  an  indignation  is  attributed  to 
Jesus  when  it  is  said  that  He  "looked  round  about 
on  them  with  anger,  being  grieved  at  the  harden- 
ing of  their  heart"  (Mk  3  5).  When  anger  arises 
because  of  this  condition,  it  is  sinless,  but  when 
anger  arises  because  of  wounded  or  aggrieved  per- 
sonality or  feelings,  it  is  sinful  and  punishable. 
Anger,  while  very  likely  to  become  sinful,  is  not 
really  sinful  in  itself. 

We  have  illustrations  in  the  Scriptures  of  wrath  or 
anger  that  is  justifiable,:  Jesus  (Mk  3  5),  Jacob  ((Jen 
31  30),  Moses  (Kx  11  S;  32  19;  Lev  10  10;  Xu  16 
15),  Nehemiah  (Neh  5  0;  13  17.25);  of  sinful  anger: 
Cain  (Gen  4  5.(>),  Esau  (Gen  27  45),  Moses  (Nu  20 
10.11),  Balaam  (NTu  22  27),  Saul  (1  S  20  30),  Ahab 
(1  K  21  4),  Xaaman  (2  K  5  11),  He-rod  (Mt  2  10), 
the  Jews  (Lk  4  2S),  the  high  priest  (Acts  5  17;  7  54). 

WILLIAM  EVAXS 

WREST,  rest:  Found  in  AV  and  RV  3  t  in  the 
writings  of  Moses,  viz.  Ex  23  2.6;  Dt  16  19.  In 


Wrestling 
Writing 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3114 


all  three  places  it  refers  to  twisting,  or  turning  aside, 
or  perverting  judgment  or  justice.  In  l)t  24  17 
RV  has  "wrest"  where  AV  has  "pervert." 

In  Ps  56  5  PS?  ,  \l&ibli);  2  Pet  3  1C)  (o-Tpe£X6w, 
strchlod),  it  refers  to  the  word  or  words  of  (lod  in  the 
Scriptures.  In  the  Pss  the  servant  of  (lod,  who 
speaks  in  (lod's  name,  complains  that  the  enemies 
"wrest,"  misinterpret,  misapply  and  pervert  his 
words.  In  Pet  it  is  the  ignorant,  and  unstedfast 
who  so  pervert  and  misuse  some  of  the  difficult 
words  of  Paul,  and  they  do  it  to  their  own  destruc- 
tion— a  most  earnest  warning  against  carelessness 
and  conscienceless  indifference  in  interpreting 
Scripture.  G.  II.  (IKKBKKI>I.\<; 

WRESTLING,  res'] ing  fplX  ,  Tihhak;  -rraXi],  pule). 
See  GAMES  II,  3,  (i);  JACOB;  NAPIITALI. 

WRINKLE,  rin'k'l  (Ett^  ,  fcaniat,  "to  lay  hold 
on'';  pvfis,  rfntlix,  "a  wrinkle"):  In  Job  16  S,  RV 
subst  itutes,  "Thou  hast  laid  fast  hold  on  me"  (m 
"shrivelled  me  up")  for  AV  "Thou  hast  filled  me 
with  »T////,Yr.s."  In  Eph  5  27,  St.  Paul's  figurative 
reference1  to  the  church  as  a  bride,  "not  having  spot 
or  wrinkle,"  is  indicative  of  the  perennial  youth  and 
attractiveness  of  the  church. 

WRITING,  lit 'ing: 

I.        (  i  10-N  KKAL 

1.    Definition 
'2.    Inward   Writing 
:?.  Out-ward  Writing 
II.     M'lii:   SYMBOLS 

1.  Object   Writing 

2.  Image  Writ  ing 

3.  Picture  Writing 

4.  Mnemonic  Writing 
.r>.    Phonetic  Writing 

III.     METHODS 

I  V.       I  \STKCMKNTS 
V.        M  ATF.  HIAl.rt 

1.   (May 
•2.   Stone 
:<.    head 

4.  Bron/e 

f>.  ( iold  and  Silver 

(i.  Wood 

7.  Bones  and  Skins 

5.  Vellum 
!).  Papyrus 

1(1.    Paper 
11.    Ink 
VI.      KOKMS 

1.  The  Roll 

2.  The  ( 'odex 
VII.     WIUTIN<; 

1.    Writers 

'2.  The  Writing  Art 
VIII.  HISTORY 

1.    Mythological  Origins 

•2.    Ka'rliest   lTse 

:?.  Biblical  History 
LIT KK  \TI  UK 

/.    General. — Writing     is     the    art     of    recording 
thought,  and  recording  is  the  making  of  permanent 
symbols.     Concept,      expression      and 
1.  Defini-      record   are   three   states  of   the   same 
tion  work  or  word.     Earliest  mankind  ex- 

pressed itself  by  gesture  or  voice  and 
recorded  in  memory,  but  at  a  very  early  stage  man 
began  to  feel  the  need  of  objective  aids  to  memory 
and  the  need  of  transmitting  a  message  to  a  distance 
or  of  leaving  such  a  message  for  the  use  of  others 
when  he  should  be  away  or  dead.  For  these  pur- 
poses, in  the  course  of  time,  he  has  invented  many 
symbols,  made  in  various  ways,  out  of  every  ima- 
ginable material.  These  symbols,  fixed  in  some 
substance,  inward  or  outward,  are  writing  as  distin- 
guished from  oral  speech,  gesture  language,  or  other 
unrecording  forms  of  expression.  In  the  widest 
sense  writing  thus  includes,  not  only  penmanship  or 
chirography,  but  epigraphy,  typography,  phonog- 
raphy, photography,  cinematography,  and  many 
other  kinds  of  writing  as  well  as  mnemonic  object 
writing  and  inward  writing. 


Writing  has  to  do  primarily  with  the  symbols,  but 
as  these  symbols  cannot  exist  without  being  in  some 
substance,  and  as  they  are  often  modified  as  to  their 
form  by  the  materials  of  which  they  are  made  or  the 
instruments  used  in  making,  the  history  of  writing 
has  to  do,  not  only  with  the  signs,  symbols  or  char- 
acters themselves,  but  with  the  material  out  of 
which  they  are  made  and  the  instruments  and 
methods  by  which  they  are  made. 

The  fact  that  memory  is  a  real  record  is  well 

known  in  modern  psychology,  which  talks  much  of 

inward    speech    and    inward    writing. 

2.  Inward      By  inward  writing  is  commonly  meant 
Writing  the   inward   image  or   counterpart   of 

visual  or  tangible  handwriting  as  dis- 
tinguished from  the  inward  records  of  the  sound  of 
words,  but  the  term  fairly  belongs  to  all  inward 
word  records.  Of  t  hese  permanent  records  two  chief 
classes  may  be  (list  inguished :  sense  records,  whet  her 
the  sense  impression  was  by  eye,  ear,  finger-tip  or 
muscle,  and  motor  records  or  images  formed  in  the 
mind  with  reference  to  the  motion  of  the  hand  or 
other  organs  of  expression.  Both  sense  records 
and  motor  records  include  the  counterparts  of  every 
imaginable  kind  of  outward  handwriting. 

We  meet  this  inward  writing  in  the  Bible  in  the 
writing  upon  the  tablets  of  the  heart  (Prov  3  oj 
7  8;  Jer  17  1 ;  2  Cor  3  3),  which  is  thus  not  a 
mere  figure  of  speech  but  a  proper  description  of 
that  effort  to  fix  in  memory  which  some  effect  by 
HUM  us  of  sound  symbols  and  some  by  the  sight 
symbols  of  ordinary  handwriting. 

It  has  also  its  interesting  and  important  bearing 
on  questions  of  inspiration  and  revelation  where 
the  prophet  "hears"  a  voice  (Ex  19  1<);  Nu  7  <S«); 
Rev  19  1.2)  or  "sees"  a  vision  (2  K  6  17;  Isa  6; 
Am  7  1  '.))  or  even  sees  handwriting  (Rev  17  5). 
This  handwriting  not  only  seems  "real"  but  is  real, 
whether  caused  by  external  sound  or  vision  or  inter- 
nal human  or  superhuman  action. 

Outward  writing  includes  many  kinds  of  symbols 

produced  in  various  ways  in  many  kinds  of  material. 

The   commonest   kind   is  alphabetical 

3.  Outward  handwrit  ing  with  pen  and  ink  on  paper, 
Writing  but   alphabetic;   symbols   are   not   the 

only  symbols,  the  hand  is  not  the  only 
means  of  producing  symbols,  the  pen  is  not  the  only 
instrument,  and  ink  and  paper  are  far  from  being 
the  only  materials. 

The  ordinary  ways  of  human  expression  arc  voice1  and 
gesture.  Corresponding  to  these  there  is  an  oral  writing 
and  a  gesture  writing.  For  the  recording  of  vocal  sounds 
various  methods  have  been  invented:  direct-  carving  or 
molding  in  wax  or  other  material,  or  translating  into 
light  vibrations  and  recording  these  by  photograph  or 
kymograph.  IJoth  phonographic  and  photographic 
records  of  sounds  are  strictly  oral  writing. 

The  record  of  gestures  by  making  pictures  of  them 
forms  a  large  fraction  of  primitive,  picture  writing  (e.g. 
the  picture  of  a  man  with  weapon  poised  to  throw)  and 
the  modern  cinematography  of  pantomime  is  simply  a 
perfected  form  of  this  primitive  picture  writing. 

Handwriting  is  simply  hand  gesture  with  a  mechanical 
device  for  leaving  a  permanent  record  of  its  motion  by  a 
trail  of  ink  or  incision.  In  the  evolution  of  expression 
the  imitation  of  human  action  tends  to  reduce  itself  to 
sign  language,  where  both  arms  and  the  whole  body  are 
used,  and  then  to  more  and  more  conventionalized  hand 
gesture.  This  hand  gesture,  refined,  condensed  and 
adapted  to  mechanical  conditions,  and  provided  with 
pencil,  chisel,  or  pen  and  ink,  is  handwriting.  Its  nature 
is  precisely  analogous  to  that  of  the  self-registering  ther- 
mometer or  kymograph. 

Nearly  all  the  great  body  of  existing  written  docu- 
ments, save  for  the  relatively  few  modern  phono- 
graphic, kymographic  and  other  visible  speech 
records,  is  handwritten,  the  symbols  being  produced, 
selected,  arranged,  or  at  least  pointed  out,  by  the 
hand.  Even  the  so-called  phonetic  writing,  as 
usually  understood,  is  not  sound  record  but  consists 
of  hand-gesture  symbols  for  sounds. 


3115 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Wrestling 
Writing 


//.  The  Symbols.  —Among  the  ni;iny  kinds  of 
outward  signs  used  in  writing  the  best  known 
;ire  the  so-culled  Phoen  alphabet  and  its  many 
derivatives,  including  the  usual  modern  alphabets. 
Other  well-known  varieties  are  the  wedge  system 
of  Assyria  and  Babylonia,  the  hieroglyphic  systems 
of  Egypt  and  Mexico,  the  Chinese  characters, 
stenographic  systems,  the  Morse  code,  the  Braille 
system,  the  abacus,  the  notched  stick,  the  knotted 
cord,  wampum  and  twig  bundles.  These,  however, 
by  no  means  exhaust  the  list  of  signs  which  have 
been  used  for  record  or  message  purposes ;_  e.g. 
colored  flags  for  signaling,  pebbles,  cairns,  pillars, 
flowers,  trees,  fishes,  insects,  animals  and  parts  of 
animals,  human  beings,  and  images  of  _  all  these 
things,  have  all  served  as  record  symbols  in  writing. 

The  various  symbols  may  be  grouped  as  objects 
and  images,  each  of  these  classes  divided  again  into 
pictorial  or  representative  signs  and  mnemonic  or 
conventional  signs,  mnemonic  signs  again  divided 
into  ideographic  and  phonetic,  and  phonetic  again 
into  verbal,  syllabic  (consonantal),  and  alphabetic. 
This  may  be  represented  graphically  as  follows: 

(A)  OBJECTS 

(1)  Pictorial 

(2)  Conventional  (Mnemonic) 

(<0   Ideographic  (Eye  linages) 
(6)    Phonetic  (Ear  linages) 

(a)   Verbal 

O)   Syllabic 

(y)   (Consonantal) 

(S)    Alphabetic 

(B)  IMAGES 

(1)  Pictorial 

(2)  Conventional  (Mnemonic) 
(«)  Ideographic 

(6)    Phonetic 
(a)   Verbal 
O)   Syllabic 
(Y)    (Consonantal) 
(S)    Alphabetic 

Objects  may  be  whole  objects  (a  man)  or  char- 
acteristic parts  (human  head,  arm,  leg)  or  samples 
(feather  or  piece  of  fur).  The  objects  may  be  natu- 
ral objects  or  artificial  objects  designed  for  another 
purpose  (arrow),  or  objects  designed  esp.  to  be  used 
as  writing  symbols  (colored  flags).  Images  include 
images  of  all  these  objects  and  any  imaginary  images 
which  may  have  been  invented  for  writing  purposes. 

Pictorial  or  representative  signs  arc  distinguished  from 
mnemonic  or  conventional  signs  by  the  fact  that  in 
themselves  they  suggest  the  thing  meant,  while  the  others 
require  agreement  beforehand  as  to  what  they  shall 
mean.  The  fact,  however,  that  the  symbol  is  a  picture 
of  something  does  not  make  it  pictorial  or  the  writing 
picture  writing.  It  is  pictorial,  not  because!  it  is  a  picture, 
but  because;  it  pictures  something.  The  fact,  e.g.,  that 
a  certain  symbol  may  be  recognized  as  ail  ox  de>es  not 
make  of  this  a  pictograph.  If  it  stands  for  or  means  an 
ox,  it  is  a  pictograph;  if  it  stands  for  "divinity,"  it  may 
be;  calleel  an  ideograph,  or  if  it  stands  for  the  letter  u  it 
is  phonetic,  a  phonogram. 

The  key  to  the  evolution  of  writing  symbols  is  to 
be  found  in  a  law  of  economy.  Object  writing  un- 
doubtedly came  first,  but  man  early  learned  that 
the  image  of  an  object  would  serve  as  well  for  record 
purposes  and  was  much  more  convenient  to  handle. 
True  picture  writing  followed.  The  same  law  of 
economy  leel  to  each  of  the  other  steps  from  pictorial 
to  alphabetic,  and  may  be  traced  in  the  histe>ry  of 
eae'h  kind  and  part.  Every  alphabet  exhibits  it. 
The  history  of  writing  is  in  brief  a  history  of_short- 
haml.  It  begins  with  the  whole  object  or  image, 
passes  to  the  characteristic  part,  reduces  this  to  the 
fewest  possible  strokes  whie'h  retain  likeness,  con- 
ventionalizes these  strokes,  and  then,  giving  up  all 
pretense  of  likeness  to  the  original  symbol,  and 
frankly  mnemonic,  it  continues  the  process  of  ab- 
breviation until  the  whole  ox  has  become  the  letter 
"a"  or  perhaps  a  single  dot  in  some  system  of 
stenography. 

Object  writing  is  not  common  in  the  phonetic  stage, 
but  e!ve>n  this  is  found,  e.g.,  in  alphabetical  Hags  for 


ship  signaling.  The!  actual  historical  eye>liitiem  e>f 
writing  seems  to  liavi!  be'en  e>bje'Ct,  image-picture',  ideo- 
gram, phonogram,  syllable-,  consemant,  leater.  All  of 
thesei  stage's  have;  somes  echoes  at  le'ast  in  the!  Bible, 
although  e!ve-n  tlie  syllabic  stage  se>e>ms  to  have!  been 
alivaely  passe'el  at  the:  time;  e>f  Moses.  The  Ili'b  ()T  as 
a  whole  stands  fe>r  the!  consonantal  stage!  and  the;  Cr  XT 
fe>r  the  complete  alphabetic — still  the  climax  e>f  lianel- 
writing,  unless  the!  eve>lutiem  e)f  mathematical  symbols, 
which  is  a  very  elaborate  evolution  of  ideographic  hand- 
writing, is  so  regarded. 

Although  probably  not  even  a  single  sentence  of 
the  Heb  Bible  was  written  in  ideographic,  picture, 
or  object  handwriting,  many  documents  which  are 
use'el  or  quoted  by  Bib.  writers  we're  writ  t  en  by  t  hese 
methods,  and  all  of  them  are  repeatedly  implied. 
In  a  number  of  cases  full  exegesis  requires  a  knowl- 
edge of  their  nature  and  history.  A  certain  number 
of  scholars  now  believe  that  the  Pent  was  originally 
written  in  cuneiform,  after  the  analogy  of  the  cir- 
cumstances shown  by  the  Am  Tab.  In  this  case  of 
course  there  would  still  be  traces  both  of  the  syllabic 
and  ideographic,  but  the  thee>ry  is  improbable. 

The  most  primitive  writing  was  naturally  pie-- 
torial  object  writing.  When  the  hunter  first  brought 
home  his  quarry,  this  had  in  it  most  of 
1.  Object  the  essential  elements  of  modern  hand- 
Writing  writing.  Those  who  remained  at 
home:  read  in  the  actual  bodies  the 
most  essential  record  of  the  trip.  When,  further, 
the  hunter  brought  back  useless  quarry  to  evidence 
his  tale  of  prowess,  the  whole  essence  of  handwriting 
was  involved.  This  was  whole-object  record,  but 
eibject  abbreviations  soon  followed.  Man  early 
learned  that  skins  represented  whole  animals  (the 
determinative  for  "quadruped"  in  Egyp  is  a  hide), 
and  that  a  reindeer's  head  or  antlers,  or  any  char- 
acteristic part,  served  the  simple  purpose  of  record 
just  as  well  as  the  whole  object,  and  this  method  of 
record  survives  in  a  modern  hunting-lodge.  The 
bounty  on  wrolves'  scalps  and  the  expression  "so 
many  head  of  cattle"  are  similar  survivals.  In 
war,  men  returning  hung  the  dead  bodies  of  their 
enemies  fre>m  the  prows  of  their  triumphal  ships  or 
from  the  walls  of  the  city,  and,  in  peace,  from  the 
gibbet,  as  object  lessons.  They  soon  ^earned, 
however,  that  a  head  would  serve:  all  practical  pur- 
poses as  well  as  a  whole  body,  and  the  inhabitants 
of  Borneo  today  practise  the>ir  discovery.  Then 
they  discovered  that  a  scalp  was  just  as  character- 
istic and  more  portable,  and  the  scalp  belt  of  the 
American  Indian  is  the  result.  The  ancient  Egyp- 
tians counted  the  dead  by  "hands"  carried  away  as 
trophies.  Both  objects  and  images  tend  thus  to 
pass  from  the  whole  object  to  a  characteristic  part, 
then  to  the  smallest  characteristic  part:  fre>m  the 
tiger's  carcase  or  stuffed  tiger  to  the  tiger's  claw 
or  its  pie;ture.  The  next  or  mnemonic  step  was 
taken  when  the  simplest  characteristic  part  was  ex- 
changed for  a  pebble,  a  twig,  a  notched  stick,  a  knot, 
or  any  other  obje-e-t  or  image  of  an  object  which 
does  not  in  itself  suggest  a  tiger. 

The  pictorial  object  writing  had  an  evolution  of 
its  own  and  reached  a  certain  degree  of  complexity 
in  elaborate  personal  adornment,  in  sympathetic 
magic,  the  medicine  bag,  the  prayer  stick,  _pillars, 
meteoric  stones,  etc,  for  worship,  collections  of 
liturgical  objects,  fetishes,  votive  offerings,  trophies, 
etc. 

It  reached  a  still  higher  order  of  complexity  when 
it  passed  into  the  mnemonic  stage  represented  by 
the  abacus,  the  knotted  cord,  the  notched  stick,  the 
wampum,  etc.  The  knotted  cord  may  be  recog- 
nized in  the  earliest  hieroglyphic  signs,  is  found  still 
among  primitive  people,  and  its  most  famous  ex- 
ample is  the  Peruvian  quipu.  It  still  survives  in 
the  cardinal's  hat  and  the  custom  of  knotting  a 
handkerchief  for  mnemonic  purposes.  It  is  found 
in  the  Bible  in  a  peculiarly  e'le:ar  statement  in  the 


Writing 


INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3116 


mnemonic  "fringes"  of  Nu  15  37—11  (cf  Dt  22  12). 
The  notched  stick  is  equally  old,  as  seen  in  ihe 
Australian  message  stick,  and  its  best-known 
modern  example  is  the  tally  of  the  British  Exchequer. 
The  abacus  and  the  rosary  are  practically  the  lineal 
descendants  of  the  pebble  heap  which  has  a  con- 


step  may  perhaps  be  seen  in  the  account  of  the 
leopard-tooth  necklace  of  an  African  chief  described 
by  Frobcnius.  In  itself  this  was  merely  a  complex 
trophy  record— the  tribal  record  of  leopards  slain. 
When,  however,  the  chief  took  for  his  own  necklace 
the  actual  trophy  which  some  members  of  the  tribe 


MKSSAI;E   STICKS. 


crete  modern  counterpart  in  (lie  counting  with 
pebbles  by  Italian  shepherd  boys.  It  is  possible 
that  the  notched  message  stick  has  its  echo  in  Jgs 
6  14_ (military  scribe's  staff);  Nu  17  1-10  (Aaron's 
inscribed  rod),  and  all  scepters  (rods  of  authority) 
and  herald's  wands. 

It  was  a  very  long  step  in  the  history  of  hand- 
writing from  object  to  image,  from  the  trophy  record 
to  the  trophy  image  record.  The  nature"  of  this 


had  won,  while  the  hunter  made  a  wooden  model  of 
the  tooth  which  served  him  as  trophy,  this  facsimile 
tooth  became  an  image  record.  This 
2.  Image  same  step  from  object  to  image  is  most 
Writing  familiar  in  the  history  of  votive  offer- 

ings, where  the  model  is  substituted 
for  the  object,  the  miniature  model  for  the  model, 
and  finally  a  simple  written  inscription  takes  the 
place  of  the  model.  It  is  seen  again  in  sympathetic 


3117 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Writing 


magic  when  little  wax  or  clay  images  are  vicariously 
buried  or  drowned,  .standing  for  the  person  to  he 
injured,  and  taking  the  place  of  .sample  parts,  such 
as  the  lock  of  hair  or  nail-parings,  etc,  \\hith 
are  used  in  like  manner  by  still  more  primitive 
peoples. 


The  Q.uipu. 

It  was  another  long  step  in  the  evolution  of  sym- 
bols when  it  occurred  to  man  that  objects  worn  for 
record  could  be  represented  by  paint 
3.  Picture  upon  the  body.  The  origin  of  written 
Writing  characters  is  often  sought  in  the  prac- 
tice of  tattooing,  but  whatever  truth 
there  may  be  in  this  must  be  carried  back  one  step, 
for  it  is  generally  agreed  and  must  naturally  have 
been  the  fact  that  body  painting  preceded  tattooing, 
which  is  a  device  for  making  the  record  permanent. 
The  transition  from  the  object  trophy  to  the  image 
on  the  skin  might  easily  have  come  from  the  object 
causing  a  pressure  mark  on  the  skin.  There  is  good 
reason  to  believe  that  the  wearing  of  trophies  was 
the  first  use  of  record  keeping. 

It  is  of  course  not  proved  that  body  ornaments 
or  body  marks  are  the  original  of  image  writing  or 
that  trophies  are  the  earliest  writing,  nor  yet  that 
models  of  trophies  or  votive  offerings  were  the  first 
step  in  image  writing.  It  may  be  that  the  first 
images  were  natural  objects  recognized  as  resem- 
bling other  objects.  The  Zuiii  Indians  used  for  their 
chief  fetishes  natural  rock  forms.  The  first  step 
may  have  been  some  slight  modification  of  natural 
stone  forms  into  greater  resemblance,  such  as  is 
suggested  by  the  slightly  modified  sculptures  of  the 
French-Spanish  eaves.  Or  again  the  tracks  of  ani- 
mals in  clay  may  have  suggested  the  artificial  pro- 
duction of  these  tracks  or  other  marks,  and  the  de- 
velopment of  pottery  and  pottery  marks  may  have 
been  the  main  line  of  evolution.  The  Chinese  trace 
the  origin  of  their  symbols  to  bird  tracks.  Or  again 
smear  marks  of  earth  or  firebrand  or  blood  may  have 
sviggested  marks  on  stone,  and  the  marked  pebbles 
of  the  Pyrenean  caves  may  have  reference  to  this. 
Or  yet  again  the  marks  on  the  animals  in  the  Pyre- 
nean caves  may  have  been  ownership  marks  and 
point  back  to  a  branding  of  marks  or  a  primitive 
tattooing  by  scarification. 


Whatever  the  exact  point  or  motive  for  the  image 
record  may  have  been,  and  however  the  transition 
was  made,  the  idea  once  established  had  an  extensive 
development  which  is  best  illustrated  by  the  picture 
writing  of  the  American  Indians,  though  perhaps  to 
be  found  in  the  Bushmen  drawings,  petroglvphs,  and 
picture  writing  the  world  over.  It  is  almost  historic 
in  the  Sumerian  and  the  Egyptian,  whose  phonetic 
symbols  are  pictographic  in  origin  at  least  and  whose 
determinatives  are  true  pictpgraphs. 

The  transition  from  pictorial  to  conventional  or 
mnemonic  takes  place  when  the  sign  ceases  to  sug- 
gest the  meaning  directly,  even  after 
4.  Mnemon- explanation.  This  happens  in  two 
ic  Writing  ways:  (1)  when  an  object  or  image 
stands  for  something  not  directly  re- 
lated to  that  naturally  suggested,  e.g.,  when  a 
stuffed  fox  stands  for  a  certain  man  because  it  is  his 
totem,  or  an  ox's  head  stands  for  divinity  or  for 
the  sound  "a,"  or  when  the  picture  of  a  goose  stands 


Jewish  Mnemonic  Fringes,  9th  Century 


for  "son"  in  the  Egyp  because  the  sounds  of  the  two 
words  are  the  same;  (2)  when  by  the  natural  proc- 
ess of  shorthanding  the  object  or  image  has  been 
reduced  beyond  the  point  of  recognition.  Histori- 
cally the  letter  a  is  ox  (or  goat?);  actually  it  means 
a  certain  sound. 

When  this  unrecognizable  or  conventional  sign 
is  intended  to  suggest  a  visual  image  it  is  called  an 
ideogram,  when  an  ear  picture,  a  phonogram.  Any- 
body looking  casually  over  a  lot  of  Egyp  hiero- 
glyphics can  pick  out  kings'  names  because  of  the 
oval  line  or  cartouche  in  which  they  are  inclosed. 


Writing 


the    pic 
within 
t  hose  obje 
is   the  per, 
is  phonet  i( 


THI-]  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLK  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Both  old  Hal)  and  Egyp  show  signs  of  picture 
origin,  but  the  earliest  Hal)  is  mainly  ideographic, 
and  both  developed  soon  into  the  mixed  stage  of 
phonetic  writing  \vitli  determinatives. 

Phonetic  writing  seems  to  have  developed  out  of 

the  fact   that   in  all  languages  the  same  sound  often 

has     many     different     meanings.     In 

5.  Phonetic    Eng.   "goose"   may  mean   the  fowl  or 

Writing  the  tailor's  goose.      In  Egyp  the  sound 

,sa  or  .s,  with  a  smooth  breathing,  means 

"goose"  or  "son,"'  mid  the  picture  of  a  goose  means 

either. 

Whether  the  word-sign  is  an  ideogram  or  a  phono- 
gram is  a  matter  of  psychology.  Many  modern 
readers  even  glimpse  a  \vord  as  a  whole  and  jump  to 
the  visual  image  without  thinking  of  sounds  at  all. 
To  them  it  is  an  ideogram.  Others,  however,  have 
to  spell  out  the  sounds,  even  moving  their  lips  to 
correspond.  To  them  as  to  the  writer  it  is  a  phono- 
gram. The  same  was  true  of  the  ancient,  picture  or 
ideographic  sign.  The  word-sign  was  ideogram  or 
phonogram  according  to  intention  or  to  perception. 

With  the  transition  to  syllabic  writing,  record 
became  chiefly  phonetic.  The  transition  was  made 
apparently  by  an  entirely  natural  evolution  from 
the  practice  of  using  the  same  word-sign  for  several 
different  objects  having  the  same  sound,  and  it  pro- 


ceeded by  the  way  of  rebus,  as  shown  in  Mexican 
and  Kgyp  hieroglyphics. 

Syllabic  writing  implies  a  symbol  for  every  mono- 
syllable. If  was  a  great  step  therefore  when  it  was 
discovered  that  the  number  of  sounds  was  small  and 
could  be  represented  by  individual  symbols,  as  com- 
pound words  could  by  syllable  signs.  At  first  only 
consonants  were  written.  In  the  Sem  languages 
vowels  were  at  first  not  written  at  all — possibly  they 
were  not  even  recognized,  and  one  might  use  any 
vowel  with  a  particular  combination  of  consonants. 
However  that  may  be,  what  many  prefer  to  call 
consonantal  writing  seems  to  have  existed  for  2,000 
years  before  the  vowels  were  recognized  and  regu- 
larly introduced  into  the  Phoen  alphabet.  It  is  at 
this  stage  that  alphabetic  writing,  as  usually  reck- 
oned, began.  See  ALPIIABKT. 

Phonetic  consonantal  writing  lias  now  been  in 
use  some  0,000  years  and  strict  alphabetic  writing 
some  o.OOO  years,  almost  to  the  exclusion  of  other 
forms.  The  characters  in  use  today  in  several 
hundred  alphabets  are  probably  the  historical  de- 
s'endants,  with  accumulation  of  slight-  changes 
through  environment,  of  characters  existing  from 
near  the  beginning. 

Alongside  the  development,  of  the  historic  system  of 
symbol-;,  t  here  luis  been,  still  wit  hin  t  lie  field  of  alphabetic 
writing  for  the  most,  part,  a  parallel  line  with  multitudes 
of  shorthand  and  cryptographic  systems.  An  equally 
great  multitude  of  code  systems  are  in  effect,  phonetic 
words  or  sentences  and  cryptographic-ally  or  otherwise 
used  for  cable  or  telegraph,  diplomatic  letters,  criminal 
correspondence  and  other  secret  purposes. 

///.  Methods.  —Roughly  speaking,  the  ways  of 
making  symbols,  apart  from  the  selection  of  the 
ready-made,  may  be  reduced  to  two  which  corre- 
spond to  art  in  the  round  or  in  three  dimensions 


>t 


0 


A 
V 


v 

A 


\ 


\ 


Foatpr.nt    -,f  Road       Mountain.  PCLSS         Wide  Gap  in.  t*K 

Word-Signs  Used  by  Tewa  Indians. 

and  art  in  the  flat  or  in  two  dimensions.  The  former 
appeals  to  eye  or  touch,  affording  a  contrast  by  ele- 
vation or  depression,  while  the  latter  produces  the 
same  effect  by  contrasting  colors  on  a  flat  surface. 

Written  symbols  in  three  dimensions  are  pro- 
duced either  by  cutting  or  by  pressure.  In  the  case 
of  hard  material  superfluous  matter  is  removed  by 
sculpture,  engraving  or  die;  cutting,  lu  the  case 
of  plastic  or  malleable  material,  it  is  modeled, 
molded,  hammered  or  stamped  into  the  required 
form.  To  the  first  form  belongs  the  bulk  of  stone 
inscriptions,  ancient  metal  inscriptions,  scratched 


3110 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Writing 


graffiti, _wax  tablets,  etc,  to  the  Liter  clay  tablets, 
votive  figurines,  seal  impressions,  hammered  inscrip- 
tions, minted  coins,  also  molded  inscriptions,  coins 
and  medals,  etc.  Several  of  the  Heb  :uid  Or  words 
for  writing  imply  cutting  (hakak,  humt,  hurash,  etc; 
grdpho). 

Symbols  in  two  dimensions  are  produced  either 
by  drawing  or  printing,  both  of  which  methods  con- 
sist in  the  applying  of  some  soft  or  liquid  material 
to  a  material  of  a  contrasting  color  or  cutting  from 
thin  material  and  laving  on.  Drawing  applies  the 
material  in  a  continuous  or  interrupted  line  of  paint, 
charcoal,  colored  chalk,  graphite,  ink  or  other  ma- 
terial. Its  characteristic  product  is  the  manuscript. 
This  laying  on  is  implied,  as  some  think  (Blau,  lf>l), 
in  the  commonest  Heb  word  for  writing  (kdthabh). 
Tattooing  (Dt  14  1;  Lev  19  2S,  etc),  embroidery 
(embroidered  symbolic;  figures,  Ex  28  33.34)  and 
weaving  belong  in  this  class  (embroidered  words 
in  Pal  Talm  20a,  qt.  Blau,  10;")). 

Printing  consists  in  laying  the  contrasting  color 
on  by  means  of  stencil  or  pressure,  forming  symbols 
in  two  dimensions  at  one  stroke.  Perhaps  the  most 
primitive  form  of  printing  is  that  of  the  pintadoes, 
by  which  the  savage  impresses  war  paint  or  other 
ceremonial  forms  on  his  face  and  bod}'.  Brandhg 
also  belongs  in  this  class  (Gal  6  17,  figuratively; 
3  Mace  2  19;  branding  on  the  forehead,  CII,  §  127; 
branding  a  slave,  CII,  §§  220,  227). 

These  processes  of  cutting,  molding,  drawing  and 
printing  roughly  correspond  with  inscriptions,  coins, 
medals,  seals,  manuscripts,  and  printed  documents 
— epigraphy,  numismatics,  sigillography,  chirog- 
raphy,  typography. 

IV.  Instruments. — The  commonest  instruments 
of  ancient  writing  were  the  pen,  brush  and  style. 
Other  instruments  are:  the  various  tools  for  model- 
ing, molds,  stencils,  dies,  stamps,  needles,  engraving 
tools,  compass,  instruments  for  erasure,  for  the 
ruling  of  lines,  vessels  for  ink  or  water,  et c.  Several 
of  these  are  mentioned  and  others  are  implied  in  the 
Bible.  The  chisel  which  cuts  and  the  stylus  which 
scratches  are  both  called  stylus  or  simply  the  "iron" 
(the  iron  pen).  The  graving  tool  of  Ex  32  4,  the 
iron  pen  of  Job  19  24,  the  pen  of  Isa  8  1,  the  pen 
of  iron  of  Jer  17  1,  and,  with  less  reason,  the  pencil 
of  Isa  44  13,  are  all  commonly  interpreted  as  N/////.S 
or  style,  but  they  arc;  sometimes  at  least  cutting 
rather  than  scratching  tools.  References  to  wooden 
tablets  also  imply  the  style,  and  references  to  clay 
tablets  either  the  style  proper  or  a  similar  instru- 
ment for  pressure  marks.  The  point  of  a  diamond 
in  Jer  17  1,  whether  it  is  joined  with  the  pen  of  iron 
or  not,  seems  to  refer  to  the  use  of  corundum  in  the 
engraving  of  precious  stones.  The  passages  which 
refer  to  blotting  out  (sec;  below)  or  writing  on  papy- 
rus (see  below)  or  refer  to  an  ink-horn  or  ink  (see 
respective  articles)  imply  a  pen,  or  brush  rather  than 
style,  and  presumably  the  writing  of  the  NT  im- 
plied in  general  a  reed  pen.  The  wide  house 
"painted  with  vermilion"  (Jer  22  14)  implies  the 
brush,  but  there1  is  no  direct  evidence  of  its  use  in 
writing  in  the  Bible  itself.  The  existing  ostraca 
from  Ahab's  palace  are,  however,  done  with  the 
brush.  The  pencil  (xrredh)  mentioned  in  Isa  44 
13  certainly  means  some  instrument  for  shaping, 
but  is  variously  trd  as  "line"  (AV),  "red  ochre" 
(RVm),  and  even  "stilus,"  or  "line-marking  stilus" 
(paragraphis  Aq.).  The  compass,  often  referred 
to  in  classical  times,  is  found  in  Isa  44  13.  The 
line  ruler  (paragraphis),  referred  to  by  Aquila  (Isa 
44  13),  and  the  simple  plummet  as  well  were  prob- 
ably used,  as  in  later  times,  for  marking  lines.  The 
needle  is  referred  to  in  late  Heb  and  needlework  in 
the  Bible  (see  III,  above).  The  ink-horn  or  water 
vessel  for  moistening  the  dry  inks  is  implied  in  all 
papyrus  or  leather  writing  (see  INK,  INK-HORN). 


The  Heb  term  t  r'1  "weight  of  lead"  in  Zee  5  X, 
and  "talent  of  lead"  is  precisely  equivalent  to  the 
Gr  term  for  the  circular  plate  of  lead  (knkloniolil)- 
(lu.v)  used  for  ruling  lines,  but.  something  heavier 
than  the  ruling  lead  seems  meant. 

Erasure  or  blotting  out  is  culled  for  in  Nu  5  23, 


Modern  Egyptian  Writing  Materials. 


and  often  figuratively  (Ex  32  32.33;  Rev  3  ;"),  etc). 
If  writing  was  on  papyrus,  this  would  call  for  the 
sponge  rather  than  the  penknife  as  an  eraser,  but 
the  latter,  which  is  use* I  for  erasure  or  for  making 
reed  pens,  is  referred  to  in  Jer  36  23.  For  erasing 
waxed  surfaces  the  blunt  end  of  the  style  was  used 
certainly  as  early  as  the;  NT  times.  Systematic 
erasure  when  vellum  was  scarce  produced  the 
palimpsest. 

V.  Materials. — The  materials  used  in  writing 
include  almost  every  imaginable  substance,  mineral, 
vegetable,  and  animal:  gold,  silver,  copper,  bron/e, 
clay,  marble,  granite,  precious  gems,  leaves,  bark, 
wooden  planks,  many  vegetable  complexes,  antlers, 
shoulder-blades,  and  all  sorts  of  bones  of  animals, 
and  esp.  skins.  The  commonest  are  stone,  clay, 
metal,  papyrus,  paper  and  leather,  including  vellum, 
and  all  of  these  except  paper  are  mentioned  in  the 
Bible.  Paper  too  must  be  reckoned  with  in  textual 
criticism,  and  it  was  its  invention  which,  perhaps 
more  even  than  the  discovery  of  print  ing  wit  h  mov- 
able type,  made  possible  the  enormous  multiplication 
of  copies  of  the  Bible  in  recent  times. 

Whatever  may  be  the  fact  as  to  the  first  material 
used  for  record  purposes,  the  earliest  actual  records 
now   existing   in   large   quantities   are 
1.  Clay  chiefly  on  clay  or  si  one,  and,  on  the 

whole,  clay  records  seem  to  antedate 
and  surpass  in  quantity  stone  inscriptions  for  the 
earliest  historical  period.  After  making  all  allow- 
ances for  differences  in  dating  and  accepting  latest 
dates,  there  is  an  immense  quantity  of  clay  records 
written  before  2/>()()  BC  and  still  existing".  About 
1400  or  1500  BC  the  clay  tablet  was  i;i  common  use 
from  Crete  to  the  extreme  East  and  all  over  Pal, 
everywhere,  in  short,  but  Egypt,  and  it  seems  per- 
haps to  have  been  the  material  for  foreign  diplo- 
matic communications,  even  in  Egypt.  Hundreds 
of  thousands  of  these  tablets  have  been  dug  up,  and 
undoubtedly  millions  are  in  existence,  dug  or  undug. 
These  are  chiefly  of  Mesopotamia.  The  most 
famous  of  these  tablets  were  for  a  long  time  of  the 
later  period  from  the  library  of  Ashurbanipal  at 
Nineveh.  See  LIBRARY  OF  NINEVEH.  Recently, 
however,  those  from  Tell  el-Amarna  in  Egvp't, 
Boghax-keui  in  the  Hittite  country,  and  a  few  from 
Pal  itself  vie  with  these  in  interest.  Most  of  these 
tablets  are  written  on  both  sides  and  in  columns 
ruled  in  lines.  They  measure  from  an  inch  to  a 
foot  and  a  half  in  length  and  are  about  two-thirds 
as  wide;  as  they  are  long.  Many  of  these  tablets, 
the  so-called  "cast;  tablets,"  are  surrounded  with 
another  layer  of  clay  with  a  docketing  inscription. 
See  TABLETS.  Other  clay  forms  are  the  potsherd- 


Writing 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3120 


ostraca,  now  being  dug  up  in  considerable  quanti- 
ties in  Pal.  E/ekiel  (4  1)  and  perhaps  Jeremiah 
(17  13)  refer  to  this  material.  See  OSTKACA. 

Stones  were  used  for  record  before  image  writing 
was     invented— as     cairns,     pillars,     pebbles,     etc'. 

Many  of  the  early  and  primitive  image 
2.  Stone         records  are  on  the  walls  of  caves  or  on 

cliffs     (Bushmen,    American     Indians, 
etc).     Sometimes  these  are  sculptured,  sometimes 


Letter  from  the  Governor  of  Jerusalem  about  i:i?r>  li(\ 

made  by  charcoal,  paint,  etc.  The  durability 
rather  than  the  more  extensive  use  of  stone  makes 
of  these  documents  the  richest  source  for  our  knowl- 
edge of  ancient  times.  Besides  natural  stone  ob- 
jects, stone  pillars,  obelisks,  statues,  etc,  stone-wall 
tablets,  the  sides  of  houses  and  other  large  or  fixed 
surfaces,  there  are  portable  stone-chip  ostraca  and 
prepared  tablets  (tablets  of  si  one,  Ex  24  12;  31 
IS).  These  latter  might  be  written  on  both  sides 
(Ex  32  1~>).  Job  seems  to  refer  to  stone  inscrip- 
tions (19  24).  The  famous  trilingual  inscription  of 
Behistun  which  gave  Kawlinson  the  key  to  the 
Assyrian  was  on  a  cliff  and  refers  to  King  Darius 
(Rawlinson,  Life,  58  if,  142  ff).  Two  of  the  most 
famous  of  stone  inscriptions  are  the  Ilosetta  Stone, 
which  gave  the  key  to  the  Egyp  hieroglyphics,  and 
the  Moabite  Stone  (W.  II.  Bennett,  Moal>ite  Stone, 
London,  1911),  and  both  have  some  bearing  on 
Jewish  history.  An  esp.  interesting  and  suggestive 
stone  inscription  is  the  Annals  of  Thutmose  111  of 
Egypt,  about  1500  BC,  inscribed  on  the  walls  of  the 
temple  at  Karnak.  This  gives  a  long  account  of 
campaigns  in  Syria  and  Pal  (Breasted,  Ancient 
Records  of  Egypt,  163-217).  The  Siloam  Inscrip- 
tion, and  in  general  all  the  recently  discovered  in- 


scriptions of  Pal,  have  their  more  or  less  important 
bearings  on  Bib.  history  (Lidzbarski,  Huiulb.  and 
Ephem.).  Moses  provided  (Dt  27  2-S)  for  writing 
the  Law  on  stone  (or  plaster),  and  Joshua  executed 
the  work  (Josh  8  21.32). 

Another  form  of  record  on  stone  is  the  engraving 
of  gems,  which  is  referred  to  in  Ex  28  9.11.21;  39 
0.14,  etc,  and  possibly  Zee  3  9. 

One  of  the  commonest  materials,  on  account  of 
the  ease  of  engraving,  probably,  is  lead.  Used  more 
or  less  for  inscriptions  proper,  it  is  also 
3.  Lead  used  for  diplomatic  records  and  even 
literary  works.  It  was  very  commonly 
used  for  charms  in  all  nations,  and  is  referred  to  in 
Job  (19  24),  where  it  perhaps  more  likely  means  a 
rock  inscription  filled  with  lead,  rather  than  actual 
leaden  tablets.  For  the  text  of  Ps  80  on  lead  see 
Gardthausen,  p.  20.  Submergence  curses  were  usu- 
ally of  lead,  but  that  of  Jer  51  02  seems  to  have 
been  of  papyrus  or  paper  (cf  W.  S.  Fox  in  Am.  Jour, 
of  1'hiL,  XXXIII,  1912,  303-4). 


J\  • 


-I     ' 

Siloam  Inscription.     Writing  at  Jerusalem  at  the 
Time  of  Hezekiah. 

Bronze  was  used  for  several  centuries  BC,  at  least 

for  inscribed  votive  offerings,  for  public  records  set 

up  in  the  treasuries  of  the  temples  and 

4.  Bronze      for  port  able  tablets  such  as  the  military 

diplomas.  In  the  time  of  the  Macca- 
bees public  records  were  engraved  on  such  tablets 
and  set  up  in  the  temple  at  Jerus  (1  Mace  14  27). 
There  were  doubtless  many  such  at  the  time  when 
Jesus  Christ  taught  there. 

(lold  and  silver  as  writing  material  are  most 
commonly  and  characteristically  used  in  coins  and 

medals.     References  to  money,  mostly 

5.  Gold  and  silver  money,  are  numerous  in  the  ( )T, 
Silver  but  these  are  not  certainly  coins  with 

alphabetic  inscriptions.  In  NT  times 
coins  were  so  inscribed,  and  in  one  ease  at  least 
the  writing  upon  it  is  referred  to — "Whose  is  this 
image  and  superscription?"  (Mt  22  20).  Theactual 
inscription  and  the  actual  form  of  its  letters  are 
known  from  extant  specimens  of  the  denarius  of  the 
period.  See  MONKY. 

The  use  of  the;  precious  metals  for  ordinary  in- 
scriptional  purposes  was,  however,  frequent  in 
antiquity,  and  the  fact  that  rather  few  such  inscrip- 
tions have  survived  is  probably  due  to  the  value  of 
the  metal  for  other  purposes.  The  Ilittite  treaty  of 
Khetasar  or  Hattusil  engraved  on  silver  and  sent 
to  the  king  of  Egypt,  has  long  been  known  from  the 
Egyp  monuments  (tr  in  Breasted,  Ancient  Records 
of  Egypt,  III,  1(55-74),  and  recently  fragments  of 
the  ilittite  version  of  this  treaty  have  been  dis- 
covered at  Boghaz-keui  (Winckler,  MDOG,  XXXV, 
12  ff).  This  has  very  close  relations  to  Bib.  history, 
whether  it  was  made  before  or  after  the  Exodus. 
The  famous  Orphic  gold  tablets  (Harrison,  "Orphic 
Tablets,"  in  Prolegomena  to  the  Study  of  Gr  Relu/ion, 
573-000,  000-74)  have  a  bearing  on  a  comparative 
study  of  Bib.  doctrine.  Direct  reference  to  en- 
graving on  gold  is  found  in  the  account  of  the  in- 
scription on  the  high  priest's  miter  (Ex  28  36). 
Writing  on  the  horns  of  the  altar  is  referred  to  in 
Jer  17  1,  and  these  horns  too  were  of  gold  (Ex  30 
3).  Queen  Helena  of  Adiabene  is  said  to  have  pre- 
sented an  inscribed  gold  tablet  to  the  temple  at 
Jerus  (Blau,  67).  The  golden  shrines  of  Ptolemy  V 


3121 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Writing 


— with    their    inscribed    golden     phylacteries — :ire 
mentioned  on  the  Rosetta  Stone. 

Silver,  and  more  osp.  gold,  have  also  boon  very  exten- 
sively used  for  the.  laying  on  of  contrasting  colors,  either 
furnishing  the  background  or  more  often  the  material 
laid  on.  The  history  of  chrysography  is  a  long  and  full 
one  (Gardthauscn,  I,  214-17;  Blau,  i:j,  ISO-OS).  The 
standard  copy  of  the  OT  at  Jerus,  which  was  loaned  to 
Alexandria,  was  apparently  in  gold  letters  (Jos,  Ant,  XII, 
ii,  10)  (see  SKPTUAGINT),  and  many  of  the  famous  Bib. 
MSS  of  the  Middle  Ages  were  written  wholly  or  in  part 
with  gold,  either  laid  on  as  gold  leaf  or  dissolved  and 
used  as  an  ink  or  paint  (Gardthausen,  210). 

Leaves  of  trees  were  early  used  for  charms  and 
writing.  Some  of  the  representations  of  writing 
on  the  Egyp  monuments  show  the 
6.  Wood  goddess  of  writing  inscribing  the  leaves 
of  growing  trees.  Jewish  tradition 
(Tosepht.a'  Cittin  2  3-5;  _Mish  Gittln  2  3,  etc,  qt. 
Blau,  16)  names  many  kinds  of  leaves  on  which  a 
bill  of  divorcement  (Dt  24  1.3)  might  or  might  not 
be  written.  Reference  to  the  use  of  leaves  is  found 
in  early  Gr,  Lat  and  Arab,  sources — and  they  are 
still  used  in  the  East. 

Bark  also  has  often  been  used:  both  liber  in  Lat 
and  ''book"  in  Eng.,  according  to  some,  are  thought 
to  refer  to  the  bark  of  the  lime  or  beech  tree,  and 
birch  bark  was  a  common  writing  material  among 
the  American  Indians.  It  is  in  the  form  of  wrought 
wood,  staves,  planks  or  tablets,  however,  that  wood 
was  chiefly  known  in  historical  times.  These  wood 
tablets  were  used  in  all  early  periods  and  among 
all  nations,  esp.  for  memorandum  accounts  and 
children's  exercises.  Sometimes  the  writing  was  di- 
rectly on  the  wood,  and  sometimes  on  wood  coated 
with  wax  or  with  chalk.  See  TABLETS.  Writing 
on  staves  is  referred  to  in  Nu  17  2.  Mk  15  26 
seems  perhaps  to  imply  that  the  "superscription" 
of  the  cross  was  on  wood,  unless  Jn  19  19  contra- 
dicts this. 

Woven  linen  as  a  writing  substance  had  some 
fame  in  antiquity  (libri  lintri),  and  many  other 
fibers  which  have  been  used  for  woven  or  embroid- 
ered writing  are,  broadly  speaking,  of  wood.  So 
too,  in  fact,  when  linen  or  wood  is  pulped  and  made 
int  o  paper,  the  material  is  still  wood.  Most  modern 
writing  and  printing  is  thus  on  wood.  See  10, 
below. 

Diogenes  Lacrtius  (vii.174)  tells  that  Cleanthes 
wrote  on  the  shoulder-blades  of  oxen,  but  he  was 
preceded  by  the  cave-dwellers  of  the 
7.  Bones  Neolithic  age,  who  wrote  on  reindeer 
and  Skins  horns  and  bones  of  many  kinds  (Dcche- 
lette,  Arch,  preliist.,  1908,  125,  220-37, 
et  passim).  Ivory  has  often  been  used  and  was  a 
favorite  material  for  tablets  in  classical  times.  The 
LXX  translates  "ivory  work"  of  Cant  6  14  as 
"ivory  tablets."  Horns  are  given  in  late  Heb 
(Tos('i)hta',  qt.  Blau,  16)  as  a  possible  material  for 
writing.  They  have  been  used  at  all  times  and  are 
well  illustrated  in  modern  times  by  the  inscribed 
powder  horns. 

The  hides  of  living  animals  have  served  for  brand- 
ing, and  living  human  skin  for  painting,  branding 
and  tattooing  extensively  in  all  lands  and  all  times. 
The  literature  of  ceremonial  painting  and  tattooing 
is  very  extensive,  and  the  branding  of  slaves  was 
common  in  many  lands.  See  PRINTING. 

The  use  of  skins  prepared  for  writing  on  one  side 
(leather)  was  early  and  general,  dating  back  as  far 
at  least  as  the  IVth  Dynasty  of  Egypt.  The  Annals 
of  Thutmose  III  in  Pal  were  written  on  rolls  of 
leather.  Its  use  was  common  also  in  Persia  (Dio- 
dorus  ii.32;  Herod,  v.58;  Strabo  xv.l),  and  it  was 
a  natural  universal  material.  It  has  been  much 
used  by  modern  American  Indians.  It  was  the 
usual  material  of  early  Heb  books,  and  the  official 
copies  at  least  of  the  OT  books  seem  always  to  have 


been   written   on    this   malcri:il  (Blau,   M-ldj,  and 
are  so,  indeed,  even  to  the  present  day. 

Vellum  is  simply  a  fine  quality  of  leather  prepared 
for  writing  on  both  sides.     The  autographs  of  the 

NT  were  most  likely  written  on  papy- 
8.  Vellum      rus,  rather  than  leather  or  vellum,  but 

most  of   the  earliest  codices  and   all, 
until  recent  discoveries,  were  on  this  material,  while 


Signs  of  the  Cave-Dwellers. 

very  few  of  the  long  list  of  MSS  on  which  the  NT 
text  is  founded  are  on  any  other  material.  This 
material  is  referred  to  as  parchment  by  St.  Paul 
(2  Tim  4  13).  Almost  every  kind  of  skin  (leather 
or  vellum)  has  been  used  for  writing,  including  snake 
skin  and  human  skin.  The  -pnUmpxcst  is  second- 
hand or  erased  vellum,  written  upon  again.  See 
PARCHMENT;  PARCHMENTS. 


Papyrus  Marsh  with   Bout   (Bulrushes  and  Boat  of 
Bulrushes). 

Papyrus  was  not  only  the  chief  of  the  vegetable1 
materials  of  antiquity,  but  it  has  perhaps  the  long- 
est   record    of    characteristic    general 
9.  Papyrus    use   of   anything   except   stone.     The1 
papyrus  was  made  from  a  reed  culti- 
vated chiefly  in  Egypt,  but  having  a  variety  found 
also   in    Syria,    according   to   Theophrastus.     The 


Writing 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3122 


papyrus  reed  grows  iti  the  marshes  and  in  stagnant 
pools;  is  ai  best  al><  'it  t ho  thickness  of  one's  arm, 
and  grows  to  the  height  of  at  most  from  12  to  If) 
feet .  It  was  probably  a  pool  of  these  papyrus  reeds 
('•flags")  in  which  Moses  was  hidden  (Ex  3  3),  and 
the  ark  of  bulrushes  was  evidently  a  small  boat  or 
chest  made  from  papyrus  reeds,  as  many  of  the 
Egyp  boats  were.  These  boats  are  referred  to  in 
Isa  18  2. 

Papyrus  \v;is  made  by  slicing  the  rood  and  laying  the 
pieces  crosswise,  moistening  with  sticky  water,  and  press- 
ing or  pounding  together.  The  breadth  of  the  manu- 
factured article  varied  from  .">  in.,  and  under,  to  91  in., 
or  even  to  a  foot  or  a  foot  and  a  half.  The  earliest  Egyp 
papyrus  ran  from  C>  to  11  in.  Kgyp  papyri  run  to  SO, 
'.)()  and  even  1  :',.">  ft.  in  length,  but  the  later  papyri  are 
generally  from  1  to  10  ft.  long.  The  use  of  papyrus  dates 
from  before  12700  1JC  at  latest. 

Many  Bible  fragments  important  for  textual 
criticism  have  been  discovered  in  Egypt  in  late 
years.  These,  together  with  the  light  which  other 
papyri  throw  on  Hellenistic  (!r  and  various  paleo- 
graphieal  and  historical  problems,  make  the  study 
of  papyri,  which  has  been  erected  into  an  inde- 
pendent science,  one  of  very  great  importance  as 
to  Bib.  history  and  Bib.  criticism  (cf  Mitteis_u. 
\Vilcken,  drniiilzilijc  ....</.  Papyruskunde,  Leip- 
zig, 1912,  2  vols  in  4).  It  has  been  argued  from  ,Jer 
36  23  that  the  book  which  the  king  cut  up  .section 
by  sect  ion  and  threw  on  the  lire  was  papyrus.  This 
argument  is  vigorously  opposed  by  Blau  (14,  If)), 
but  the  fact  of  the  use  of  papyrus  seems  to  be 
confirmed  by  the  tale  that  the  Romans  wrapped 
the  .Jewish  school  children  in  their  study  rolls  and 
burned  them  (Td'anllh  69a,  qt .  Blau,  41).  _  Leather 
would  have  been  poor  burning  material  in  either 
case.  Certainly  "papyrus"  is  freely  used  by  the 
LXX  translators  and  the  word  hilil'ton  is  (correctly) 
tr'1  by  Jerome  (Tob  7  14)  by  churtn.  It  is  referred 
to  in'  2  ,)n  ver  12,  "paper  and  ink,"  as  the  natural 
material  for  letter-writing.  See  PAPYRI'S,  PAPYIU. 

The    introduction    of    paper    was    from    Western 

Asia,  possibly  in  the  Stli  cent.,  and  it  began  to  be 

used    in    Europe   commonly    from   the 

10.  Paper      13th  cent.     While  few  Western  MSS 

of  any  importance  are  on  paper,  many 
of  the  Eastern  are.  It  was  the  invention  of  paper, 
in  large  measure,  which  made  possible  the  immense 
development  in  the  multiplication  of  books,  since  the 
invention  of  printing,  and  the  enormous  number  of 
Bibles  now  in  existence. 

Of  the  many  materials  used  in  order  to  lay  one 

contrasting  color  on  another,  the  flowing  substances, 

paint    and    ink,    are    commonest.     In 

11.  Ink  general  throughout    antiquity   the  ink 

was  dry  ink  and  moistened  when  need- 
ed for  writing.  Quite  early,  however,  the  liquid 
inks  were  formed  with  the  use  of  gall  nut  or  acid, 
and  many  recipes  and  formulas  used  during  the 
Middle  Ages  are  preserved.  See  INK,  IXK-HOIIN. 
The  reading  of  a  palimpsest  often  depends  on  the 
kind  of  ink  originally  used  and  the  possibility  of 
reviving  by  reagents. 

VI.  Forms. — The  best  known  ancient  forms  of 
written  documents  are  the  tablet  or  sheet,  the  roll, 
the  diploma  and  the  codex.  These  may  be  ana- 
lyzed into  one-face  documents  and  many-faced 
documents — page  documents  and  leaf  documents. 
The  roll,  the  diploma  and  the  usual  folding  tablet 
or  pleated  document  are  forms  of  the  one-page 
document,  while  the  codex  or  bound  book  (Eng. 
"volume")  is  the  typical  leaf  document.  The  roll 
is  the  typical  form  of  the  OT,  the  codex  of  the  NT, 
extant  MSS. 

A  book  as  regards  its  material  form  consists  of  a 
single  limited  surface  suited  for  writing,  or  a  suc- 
c(\ssion  of  such  surface's.  This  single  surface  may 
be  the;  face  of  a  cliff  or  house  wall,  a  broken  piece  of 


pottery,  a  leaf,  a  sheet  of  lead,  papyrus,  vellum  or 
paper,  a  tablet-  of  clay,  stone  or  wood,  a  cylinder, 
prism,  cone,  pyramid,  obelisk,  statue  or  any  one  of 
the  thousands  of  inscribed  objects  found  among 
votive  offerings.  The  typical  form  is  the  flat  surface 
to  which  the  term  "tablet"  or  "sheet"  is  applied, 
and  which  is  called  "page"  or  "leaf"  according  as 
one  or  both  surfaces  are  in  mind. 

These  single  flat  loaves  are  characteristically  quad- 
rilateral, but  may  be  of  any  shape  (circular,  oval,  heart- 
shaped,  etc)  or  of  any  thickness,  from  the  paper  of  an 
Oxford  Bible  or  equally  thin  gold  foil  up  to  slabs  of  stono 
many  inches  thick. 

When  the  document  to  bo  written  is  long  and  the  sheet 
becomes  too  large  for  convenient  handling,  space;  may 
be  gained  by  writing  on  both  sides  or  by  making  still 
larger  and  either  folding  or  rolling,  on  the  one  hand,  or 
breaking  or  cutting  up  into  a  series  of  smaller  sheets,  on 
the  other.  This  folding  or  rolling  of  the  largo  sheet  sur- 
vives still  in  folded  or  rolled  maps  and  the  folded  or 
rolled  documents  (diplomas)  of  mediaeval  and  modern 
archives.  The  use  of  the  tablet  series  for  long  works 
instead  of  one  overgrown  tablet  was  early — quite  likely 
as  early  as  the  time  of  actual  writing  on  real  "leaves." 

These  smaller  tablets  or  sheets  were  at  first,  it 
would  seem,  kept  together  by  numbering  (cf 
Dziatzko,  Ant.  Buchw.,  127),  catchwords,  tying  in 
a  bundle,  or  gathering  in  a  small  box  (capsa).  This 
has  indeed  its  analogy  with  the  mnemonic  twig 
bundle  of  object  writing.  The  Pent  gets  its  name 
from  the  five  rolls  in  a  box,  jar,  or  basket  (Blau,  65; 
Birt,  BuchroUe,  22). 

The  next  step  in  the  evolution  of  book  forms  was 
taken  when  the  various  leaves  or  sheets  were  fast- 
ened to  each  other  in  succession,  being  strung, 
pasted  or  hinged  together. 

The  stringing  together  is  as  early  and  primitive 
us  the  leopard-tooth  trophy  necklace  of  the  African 
chief  or  the  shell  and  tooth  necklaces  of  quaternary 
Europe  (Dechelette,  Arch.,  20S-9).  It  was  perhaps 
used  with  annual  tablets  in  the  first  dynasties  of 
Egypt  and  is  found  in  oriental  palm-leaf  books 
today. 

The  roll  consists  normally  of  a  series  of  one-sur- 
face sheets  pasted  or  sewed  together.  Even  when 
made  into  a  roll  before  writing  upon, 

1.  The  Roll  the   fiction   of   individual   tablets   was 

maintained  in  the  columns  (delcths, 
Jer  36  23  =  "doors").  It  was  the  typical  book 
form  of  antiquity.  It  was  commonly  of  leather, 
vellum,  papyrus,  and  sometimes  of  linen.  It  might 
rarely  be  as  much  as  13f>  ft.  long  X  1?  ft.  wide  for 
papyrus,  and  leather  rolls  might  be  wider  still.  It 
was  the  form  traditionally  used  by  the  Hebrews, 
and  was  undoubtedly  the  form  used  by  Our  Lord 
in  the  synagogue.  It  is  still  used  in  the  synagogue. 
It  was  possibly  the  form  in  which  the  NT  books 
also  were  written,  but  this  is  much  more  doubtful. 

The  roll  form  is  founded  on  the  one-surface  tab- 
let, and,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  neither  leather  nor 
papyrus  was  well  suited  to  take  ink  on  the  back; 
it  developed  from  the  sewing  together  of  skins  and 
the  past  ing  together  of  sheets  of  papyrus.  _  Although 
papyrus  is  found  written  on  both  sides,  it  is  in  gen- 
eral not  the  same  document  on  the  back,  but  the  old 
has  been  destroyed  and  utilized  as  waste  paper. 
This  writ  ing  on  both  sides  of  the  roll  (opisthography) 
is  referred  to  in  Ezk  2  10  (Rev  6  1),  where  the 
roll  is  written  within  and  without. 

Wood  and  metal  tablets,  not  being  flexible,  could 

not  be  rolled,  but  were  hinged  and  became  diptychs, 

triptychs,    polyptychs.      The    typical 

2.  The  method    of    hinging    these    tablets    in 
Codex             Rom    times    was    not    the    codex    or 

modern  book  form  proper,  where  all 
are  hinged  by  the  same  edge,  but  a  folding  form 
based  on  a  series  of  one-surface  tablets  hinged  suc- 
cessively so  as  to  form  a  chain  (Gardthausen,  Gr 
Pal,  I,  129,  fig.  12).  They  were  strictly  folding 
tablets,  folding  like  an  accordion,  as  in  some  Far 


3123 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Writing 


Eastern  MSS  of  recent  times.     The  modern  hing- 
ing was  used  but  rarely. 

It  is  commonly  said  that  it  was  this  folding  or  hinged 
wooden  tablet  which  produced  the  co//i.r  of  the  Latins 
and  the  "book"  of  modern  Germanic  races.  Some, 
however,  prefer  to  trace  the  origin  to  the  folded  docu- 
ment. The  wood  or  waxed  tablet  was  commonly  used 
in  antiquity  for  letters,  but  even  more  commonly  the 
sheet  of  papyrus  or  vellum.  It  is  quite,  natural  to  fold 
such  a  sheet  once  to  protect,  the  writing.  Whether  this 
was  suggested  by  the  diptych,  or  vice  versa,  the  form  of 
a  modern  sheet  of  note  paper  was  early  introduced. 
Either  the  diptych  or  the  folded  single  sheet  may  have 
suggested  the  codex. 

Whether  the  first  codices  were  wood  and  metal  or 
papyrus  and  vellum,  the  hinging  at  one  edge,  which  is 
the  characteristic,  is  closely  connected  with  the  doublo- 
(or  multiple-)  face  tablet.  With  suitable  material  the 
simplest  way  of  providing  space,  if  the  tablet  is  too 
small,  is  to  turn  over  and  finish  on  the  back.  The  clay 
tablets  lend  themselves  readily  to  writing  on  both  sides, 
but  not  to  hinging.  It  developed,  however,  to  a  certain 
degree  the  multiple-face  idea  by  use  of  prisms,  pyramids, 
hexagonal  and  other  cylinders,  but  it  was  early  forced 
into  the  numbered  series  of  moderate-sized  tablets. 

Wood  and  metal  tablets  would  be;  hinged,  but  the 
wood  tablets  were  too  bulky  and  metal  tablets  too  heavy 
for  long  works,  and  the.  ring  method  of  joining  actually 
led  away  from  the  book  to  the  pleated  form.  Papyrus 
and  leather,  however,  while  they  might  be  used  (as  they 
were  used)  as  single;  tablets  were  thin  enough  to  allow  of 
a  long  work  in  a  single  codex.  They  soon  developed, 
therefore,  perhaps  through  the  folded  sheet,  into  the 
codex  proper  and  the  modern  bound  book.  The  codex, 
as  Thompson  remarks,  was  destined  to  be  the  recipient 
of  Christian  literature,  as  the  papyrus  roll  had  been 
the  basis  of  the  pagan  literature,  and  there  is  some  evi- 
dence to  show  that  the  form  was,  historically,  actually 
developed  for  the  purposes  of  the  Christian  writings,  and 
in  papyrus,  while  the  pagan  papyri  continued  to  be  in 
roll  form.  Since  the  invention  of  the  codex  is  placed  at 
the  end  of  the  1st  cent.,  and  the  earliest  codices  were 
esp.  the  NT  writings,  there  is  a  certain  possibility  that 
at  least  the  historical  introduction  of  the  codex  wa.s  in 
the  NT  books,  and  that  its  invention  comes  perhaps 
from  combining  the  NT  epistles  on  papyrus  into  a  vol- 
ume. In  the  West  at  least  the  roll  is,  however,  the  pre- 
vailing form  of  the  NT  until  the  3d  or  4th  cent.  (Birt, 
Buckrolle,  passim). 

VII.  Writing. — The  chief  Ileb  words  for  the  pro- 
fessional "writer"  nrcsoplicr  and  shotcr,  both  akin  to 

Assyr  words  for  "writing"  and  used 
1.  Writers  also  for  kindred  officers.  The  word 

sophcr  scorns  closely  connected  with  the 
§cphcr,  "book,  and  with  the  idea  of  numbering. 
This  official  is  a  military,  mustering  or  enrolling 
officer  (Jgs  5  14;  2  Ch  26  11;  2  K  25  19),  a 
numbering  or  census  officer  for  military  purposes  or 
for  taxation  (Isa  33  18) — and  a  royal  secretary 
(2  S  8  17). 

The  shotcr  appears  as  a  herald  (Dt  20  5.8;  Josh 
1  10;  32),  as  overseer  of  the  brick-making  in 
Egypt,  and  as  overseer  of  the  outward  business  of 
Israel  (1  Ch  26  29).  He  is  associated  with  the 
elders  (Nu  11  Hi;  Dt  29  10  [Hob  9];  31  28;  Josh 
8  33;  23  2;  24  1)  or  with  the  judges  (Josh  8  33; 
23  2;  24  1;  Dt  16  18). 


Scribes  with  Utensils. 

The  two  terms  are  often,  however,  used  together  as 
of  parallel  and  distinct  offices  (2  Ch  26  11;  34  13). 
If  any  such  distinction  can  be  made,  it  would  seem  that 
the  Kdpher  was  originally  the  military  scribe  and  the 
shotcr  the  civil  scribe,  but  it  is  better  to  say  that  they  are 
"evidently  ....  synonymous  terms  and  could  be  used 
of  any  subordinate;  office  which  required  ability  to  write' ' 
(Cheyne  in  EH).  There  seem  to  have  been  at  least  70 
of  these  officers  at  the  time  of  the  Exodus,  and  by  infer- 
ence many  more  (Nu  11  Hi),  and  0,000  Levites  alone 
in  the  time  of  David  (1  Ch  23  4)  were  "writers." 

Another  kind  of  professional  scribe  was  the  tiph- 


§ar  (Jer  51  27,  "marshal";  Nah  3  17 in),  or  tablet 
writer,  a  word  apparently  directly  borrowed  from 
the  Assyr.  This  too  seems  to  be  a  real  synonym  for 
both  of  the  other  words.  In  brief,  therefore,  all 
three  terms  mean  scribe  in  the  Egyp  or  Assyr  sense, 
where  the  writer  wa.s  an  official  and  the  official 
necessarily  a  writer. 

Still  another  word,  rendered  in  RV  as  "magi- 
cians," is  rendered  in  its  margin  as  "stirred  scribe" 
(hnrtoin).  This  word  being  derived  from  the  stilus 
recalls  the  close  connection  between  the  written 
charm  and  magic.  None  of  these  words  in  the  OT 
refers  directly  to  the  professional  copyist  of  later 
times  whose  business  was  the  multiplication  of 
copies. 

Sayee  argues  from  the  name  Kiriath-sepher  that 
there  was  a  university  for  scribes  at  this  place,  and 
according  to  1  Ch  (2  55)  there  were  Kenite  families 
of  professional  scribes  at  Jabez. 

The  professional  scribe,  writing  as  an  amanuen- 
sis, is  represented  by  Baruch  (Jer  36  4)  and  Tortius 
(Rom  16  22),  and' tin;  calligraphist  by  Ezra  (Ezr 
7  6).  In  later  t  imes  the  scribe  stood  for  the  man  of 
learning  in  general  and  esp.  for  the  lawyer. 

It  would  seem  that  Moses  expected  that  kings 
should  write  with  their  own  hands  (Dt  17  18;  31 
24),  and  the  various  letters  of  David  (2  S  11  15), 
Jezebel  (1  K  21  9),  the  king  of  Aram  (2  K  5  5), 
Jehu  (2  K  10  2.C.),  Jeremiah  (ch  29),  Elijah  (2  Ch 
21  12-15),  the  letters  of  the  Canaanite  and  Hittite 
princes  to  one  another  in  the  Am  Tab  and  Bnghaz- 
keui  tablets,  etc,  while  they  may  sometimes  have 
been  the  work  of  secretaries,  were  undoubtedly 
often  by  the  author.  For  the  prevalence  of  hand- 
writing in  Bib.  times  and  places  see  LIBRARY.  Its 
prevalence  in  OT  times  may  be  compared  perhaps 
to  the  ratio  of  college  graduates  in  modern  life.  In 
NT  times  the  ratio  was  probably  much  greater,  and 
it  appears  not  only  that  Zacharias,  the  priest,  and 
the  educated  St.  Paul  and  St.  Luke  could  write, 
but  even  the  poorer  apostles  and  the  carpenter's 
Son.  It  is  assumed  that  all  of  a  certain  rich  man's 
debtors  could  write  (Lk  16  7).  This  general  liter- 
acy was  due  to  the  remarkable  public-school  system 
of  the  Jews  in  their  synagogues,  which  some  good 
Jewish  scholars  (Klostermann,  qt.  Krauss,  Talmud. 
Archncol.,  Ill,  336,  n.l)  trace  as  far  back  as  Isaiah. 
In  Vespasian's  time  it  is  said  there  were  in  Jems 
alone  480  synagogues  each  with  its  school,  and  tin- 
law  that  there  must  be  primary  schools  in  every  city 
dates  at  latest  ((13-65  AD)  from  this  time  and  more 
likely  from  130  BC.  The  compulsory  public-school 
law  of  Simeon  ben  Setach  (c  70  BC),  although  it 
has  been  labeled  mythical,  is  nevertheless  entirely 
credible,  in  view  of  the  facts  as  they  appear  in  NT 
times  and  in  Jos.  The  talc  that  there  were  in 
Helhor,  after  the  fall  of  Jerus  had  crowded  full  this 
seat  of  learning,  "400  synagogues  each  with  400 
teachers  and  400  pupils,"  carries  fiction  on  its  face, 
but  there  is  little  doubt  that  there  were  public 
schools  long  before  this  in  nearly  every  town  of  Pal 
and  compulsory  education  from  the  age  of  0  or  7  (cf 
Krauss,  III,  ch  xii,  "Srhule,"  119-239,  330-uN). 

Writing  in  the  Hob  as  in  Sem  languages  in  general 
except  Ethiopic  is  from  right  to  left  and  in  Gr  from 
left  to  right  as  in  modern  western 
2.  The  usage.  On  the  one  hand,  however, 

Writing  Art  some  Sabaean  inscriptions  and,  on  the 
other  hand,  a  number  of  early  Gr  in- 
scriptions are  written  alternately,  or  boustrophcdon, 
and  suggest  the  transition  from  Sem  to  western  style. 
The  earlier  ( ir  MSS  did  not  separate  the  words,  and 
it  is  inferred  from  text  corruptions  that  the  earliest 
Hob  writing  did  not.  As  early  as  the  Mcsha  and 
Siloam  inscriptions,  the  dot  was  used  to  separate 
words,  and  the  vertical  stroke  for  the  end  of  a  sen- 
tence. Vowel  points  were  introduced  somewhere 


Writing 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3124 


from  the  f>th  to  the  8th  cent.  AD  by  the  Massoretes, 
but  ;ire  not  :illo\v(  1  even  now  in  the  synagogue  rolls. 
Some  of  the  inscriptions  employ  the  Palestinian  or 
Tiberian  system  of  vowel  points,  and  others  the 
Bab  (above  the  line).  Accents  indicate  not  only 
stress  but  intonation  and  other  relations.  Very 
soon  after  Ezra's  day,  and  before  the  LXX  tr,  the 
matter  of  writing  the  Bib.  books  had  become  one 
of  very  great  care,  the  stipulations  and  the  rules 
for  careful  correction  by  the  authorized  text  being 
very  strict  (Blau,  185-87).  The  MSS  were  written 
in  columns  (doors),  and  a  space  between  columns, 
books,  etc,  was  prescribed,  as  also  the  width  of  the 
column.  All  books  were  ruled.  Omitted  words 
must  be  interlined  above.  The  margins  were  fre- 
quently used  for  commentaries.  For  size,  writing 
on  the  back,  etc,  see  above,  and  for  the  use  of  ab- 
breviations, reading,  punctuation,  etc,  see  Blau, 
Gardthauseu,  Thompson,  the  Introductions  to 
textual  criticism  and  the  arts,  on  textual  criticism 
in  this  Encyclopaedia. 

VIII.  History  of  Biblical  Handwriting. — Mytho- 

logically  speaking  the  history  of  handwriting  dates 

from    the    beginning   when    the    Word 

1.  Mytho-      created  the  heavens.     The  firmament 
logical  is  a  series  of  heavenly  tablet  s,  t  he  hand- 
Origins  writing  of  God,  as  conceived  by  the 

tablet-using  Babylonians,  or  a  scroll 
in  the  thought  of  prophets,  the  NT  writers,  and  the 
rabbis.  Whether  the  idea  that  "the  heavens  de- 
clare the  glory  of  Clod,"  etc  (Ps  19  1-4),  refers  to 
this  notion  or  not,  it  was  one  extensively  developed 
and  practised  in  the  science  of  astrology.  In  any 
event  the  doctrine  of  t  he  Creator-Word  reaches  deep 
into  the  psychology  of  writing  as  a  tangible  record 
of  invisible  words  or  ideas,  and  this  philosophizing 
stretches  some  3,000  years  or  so  back  of  the  Chris- 
tian era. 

For  writing  among  the  gods  in  the  mythologies  of 
non-Bib,  religions,  see  BOOK;  LIDKAKY. 

When  and  why  the  very  simplest  kind  of  writing 
began  to  be  used  has  been  the  subject  of  much  con- 
jecture.    The    Enc    'Brit    (XVI,    445) 

2.  Earliest     suggests  that  ''the  earliest  use  .... 
Use  of  inscribed  or  written  signs  was  for 

important  religious  and  political  trans- 
actions kept  by  priests  in  temples,"  but  the  memo- 
rial pillar  is  older  than  the  temple,  and  the  economic 
or  social  record  is  perhaps  older  than  the  sacred, 
although  this  is  less  clear.  Three  things  seem 
rather  probable:  (1)  that  the  first  records  were 
number  records,  (2)  that  they  concerned  economic 
matters — although  it  is  not  excluded  that  the  occa- 
sion for  first  recording  economic  matters  was  reli- 
gious, (3)  that  they  were  not  used  memorially  for 
important  transactions,  but  rather  as  utilitarian 
or  business  records. 

The  original  mnemonic  record  was  probably  a  number 
record.  The  Heb  words  for  "book"  and  "word"  both 
seem  to  mean  a  setting  down  of  one  thing  after  another, 
and  various  words  in  various  other  languages  point  in  the 
same  direction,  as  do  also  in  a  general  way  the  nature 
of  the  primitive  situation  and  the  evidences  of  history. 
Many  of  the  oldest  records  are  concerned  with  numbers 
of  animals.  Immense  quantities  of  very  old  Sumerian 
records  are  simply  such  lists,  and  the  still  earlier  cave 
drawings  (whether  they  have  numbers  or  not)  are  at 
least  drawings  of  animals.  One  use  of  the  primitive 
Quipu  was  for  recording  sales  of  different  kinds  of  animals 
at  market,  arid  the  twig  bundle  and  notched  records  an; 
in  general  either  pure  number  records  or  mnemonic 
records  with  a  number  base.  What  these  animal  records 
were  for  is  another  matter.  If  they  were;  records  of 
ownership  for  mere  tally  purposes  (a  natural  enough  pur- 
pose, carrying  back  even  to  hunting  trophies)  the  use 
was  purely  economic,  but  as  a  matter  of  fact  the  early 
Bab  lists  seem  generally  to  have  been  temple  records, 
and  even  the  cave  records  are  commonly  thought  to  bo 
associated  with  religion.  The  early  Egyp  lists  too  have 
religious  associations,  and  the  somewhat  later  records 
are  largely  concerned  with  endowment  of  temples  or  at 
least  temple  ii.sts  of  offerings — votive  offerings  or  sac- 


rifices. This  points  perhaps  to  a  religious  origin  and 
possibly  leads  back  to  the  very  first  felt  need  of  records 
for  a  tithing  for  religious  purposes.  But  it  may  equally 
lead  to  the  sharing  of  spoils  socially  rather  than  reli- 
giously, although  the  history  of  the  common  meal  and 
sacrifice  shared  by  worshippers  points  to  a  very  early 
religious  sanction  for  the  problem  of  equitable  sharing 
of  spoils,  and  it  may  have  been  precisely  at  this  point 


Common  Egyptian  Writing  in  the  Time  of  Abraham. 

and  for  this  purpose  that  number  record  was  invented. 
However  that  may  be,  the  evidence  seems  to  point  to  a 
number-record  origin  even  back  of  the  cave  drawings 
(which  are  said  to  be  chiefly  of  domestic  rather  than  wild 
animals)  at  a  period  variously  figured  as  from  0,000  or 
8,000  years  ago,  more  or  less,  to  millions  of  years  ago. 

The  pseudepigraphic  books  of  the  OT  variously 
represent  writing  as  invented  and  first  practised  by 
Jeh,  Adam,  Cain,  or  Seth.  Taking 
3.  Biblical  the  Bib.  narrative  as  it  stands,  the  ear- 
History  liest  allusion  to  true  writing  is  the  sign 
of  Cain  (Gen  4  lo),  if  indeed  this 
refers  to  a  body  mark,  and  particularly  if  it  has 
analogy  with  the  "mark  upon  the  forehead"  of  the 
Book  of  Rev  (17  5;  cf  13  US;  14  1)  and  the  tattoo 
marks  of  ownership  or  tribal  marks  of  primitive 
tribes,  as  is  thought  by  many. 

The  setting  of  the  rainbow  as  a  permanent  sign 
(Gen  9  12-17)  for  a  permanent  covenant  is  quite 
in  line  with  the  recognized  mnemonic  writing. 
Noah's  building  of  an  altar  had  the  same  character 
if  it  was  built  for  a  permanent  memorial.  More 
obviously  akin  to  this  primitive  form  of  writing  was, 
however,  the  dedication  of  a  memorial  altar  or  pillar 
as  a  memorial  of  a  particular  event  in  a  particular 
place,  as  in  Jacob's  pillar  (Gen  28  18.22). 

For  perhaps  2,000  years  before  Abraham,  image 
writing  had  been  practised  in  both  Babylonia  and 
Egypt,  and  for  more  than  1,000  years  a  very  highly 
developed  ideographic  and  phonetic  writing  had 
been  in  use.  There  were  millions  of  cuneiform 
documents  existing  in  collections  large  and  small 
in  Babylonia  when  he  was  there,  and  equal  quanti- 
ties of  hieroglyphic  and  hieratic  papyri,  leather 
and  skin  documents  in  Egypt  when  he  visited  it. 
See  BOOK;  LIBRARY;  HAMMURABI,  CODE  OF. 


3125 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Writing 


Abraham  himself  presumably  used  cuneiform 
writing  closely  parallel  to  the  writing  on  Ham- 
murabi's statue.  A  similar  script  was  presumably 
also  used  by  his  Ilittite  allies.  In  Egypt  he  met, 
with  the  hieroglyphics  on  the  monuments,  but  for 
business  and  common  use  the  so-called  hieratic 
cursive  forms  were  already  developed  toward,  if 
not  well  into,  the  decided  changes  of  the  middle 
hieratic  period  (c,  2030- 1 788  BC ;  cf  Moller,  1  Herat. 
Palacog.,  VI,  190!),  3,  etc).  It  is  a  question  whether 
the  boundary  heap,  which  Laban  "called"  the  heap 
of  witness  in  Aram,  and  Jacob  by  the  same  name 
in  Heb,  was  inscribed  or  not,  but,  if  inscribed,  both 
faces  or  lines  of  the  bilingual  inscription  were  pre- 
sumably in  cuneiform  characters.  The  cuneiform 
remained,  probably  continuously,  the  prevailing 
script  of  Syria  and  Pal  until  about  1300  BC,  and 
until,  some  time  well  before  1000,  the  old  Sern  alpha- 
bet began  to  be  employed. 

The  question  of  the  relation  of  the  writing  in 
Mosaic  times  and  in  the  time  of  the  Judges  to  the 
cuneiform  or  the  hieratic  on  the  one  side  and  the 
alphabet  on  the  other  is  too  much  mixed  up  with 
the  question  of  the  Pent  to  allow  of  much  dogmatiz- 
ing. Some  scholars  are  convinced  that  the  Pent 
was  written  in  cuneiform  characters  if  not,  in  the 
Bab  language.  The  old  Sem-(!r,  "Phoenician," 
alphabet  was,  however,  probably  worked  out  in  the 
Palestinian  region  between  1400  and  1100  BC 
(wherever  the  Hebrews  may  have  been  at  this  t  hue), 
and  it  remained  the  Heb  writing  until  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  .square  characters.  Sec  ALPHABET. 


Common  Egyptian  Writing  during  the  Bondage. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  Christian  era  there  had 
been  a  long  period  of  the  use  of  Gr  among  the  edu- 
cated, and  long  before  the  NT  was  written  there 
was  a  large  body  of  Palest inian-Gr  and  Egyp-Gr 
literature.  Latin  for  a  time  also  had  been  used, 
more  or  less,  officially,  but  the  Aram.,  development 
of  whose  forms  may  be  well  traced  from  about  500 


BC  in  the  inscriptions  and  in  the  Elephantine 
papyri,  was  the  prevailing  popular  writing.  Gr 
remained  long  the  language  of  the  educated  world. 
It  was  after  135  AD  that.  II.  Simeon  ben  Gamaliel 
was  said  to  have  had  500  students  in  Heb  (New 
Heb)  and  500  in  Gr  (Krauss,  III,  203). 


Three  Writings  in  Common  Use  in  Palestine  in  Gospel 
Times:  First,  Aramaic;  .Second,  Greek;  Third,  Latin. 

Latin,  Gr,  and  Aram.  (New  Heb)  characters  were 
all  needed  for  the  inscription  on  the  cross.  Heb 
had  at  this  time  certainly  passed  into  the  square 
form  long  enough  ago  to  have  had  yodh  pass  into 
proverb  as  the  smallest  letter  (jot)  of  the  alphabet 
(Mt  5  18).  Through  the  abundance  of  recent 
papyrus  and  inscriptional  discoveries,  it  is  now 
possible  to  trace  the  history  of  the  varying  forms  of 
the  bookhand  and  cursive  (Ir  letters,  and  even  of  the 
Latin  letters,  for  several  centuries  on  either  side  of 
the  year  of  Our  Lord  and  up  to  the  time  of  the 
longer  known  manuscripts  (see  works  of  Gardthausen 
and  Thompson).  One  may  get  in  this  way  a  good 
idea  of  how  the  most  famous  of  all  trilingual  in- 
scriptions may  have  looked  as  to  its  handwriting — 
how  in  fact  it  probably  did  look,  jotted  down  as 
memorandum  by  Pilate,  and  how  transcribed  on  the 
cross,  assuming  that  Pilate  wrote  the  Rom  cursive 
(Thompson,  facs.  106  [AD  41],  321),  and  the  clerks 
a  fair  epigraphic  or  rather  for  this  purpose  perhaps 
bookhand  Greek  (Thompson,  facs.  8  [AD  1],  123; 
Latin,  facs.  83  [AD  79],  270).  See  TITLE. 

LiTKRATrRE. —  General:  Edward  Clodd,  Story  of  the 
Alphabet,  New  York,  1912  (popular);  Fritz  Specht,  Die 
Schrift  u.  Hire  Entwicklung,  3.  Ausg.,  Berlin,  1909  (popu- 
lar); I.  Taylor,  History  of  the  Alphabet,  London,  1899, 
2  vols,  8vo;  H.  Wuttke,  Geschichte  der  Schrift,  Leipzig, 
1874-75  (rich  and  comprehensive  on  primitive  writing); 
Philippe  Bergcr,  Histoire  dc  Vecriture  dans  I'antiquite, 
2d  ed,  Paris,  1892;  Karl  Faulmann,  Illustrirtc  (;<schichte 
der  Scli rift,  WSen,  1880  (uncritical  hut  comprehensive 
and  very  useful  for  illus.);  W.  M.  Flinders  Pctrie,  The 
Formation  of  the  Alphabet,  1912. 

I'riniitice:  Leo  Frobenius,  The  Childhood  of  Man, 
Philadelphia,  1908  (casual  but  useful  aggregation  of 
primitive  examples);  Frederick  Webb  Hodge,  ed., 
Handbook  of  American  Indians  North  of  Mexico,  Wash- 
ington, 1907-10,  2  vols  (dictionary  form);  G.  Mallery, 
Smithsonian  lust.  Reports,  IV  (1882-83),  3-256,  X  (1888- 
89),  1-822;  M.  Beuchat,  Mutual  d'mchculoyie  americaine, 
Paris,  1912;  M.  H.  Kingsley,  Travels  in  West  Africa, 
London,  1897;  R.  E.  Dennet,  At  the  Back  of  the  Black 
Man's  Mind,  1906;  A.  W.  Howitt,  Native  Tribes  of 
South-East  Australia,  London,  1904  (esp.  ch  xi);  E.  C. 
Richardson,  The  Beginnings  of  Libraries,  London  and 
Princeton,  1914. 

Mediterranean:  Deeholetto,  Archeologie  prehistorique. 
1908;  Arthur  J.  Evans,  Scrip/a  Min.oa,  Oxford,  1909; 
Angclo  AIosso,  The  Dawn  of  Mediterranean  Civilization, 
London,  1910. 

Hebrew,  Greek  and  Latin:  Frederic  G.  Kenyon,  Our 
Bible  and  the  Ancient  MSS,  3d  ed.  London,  1898;  George 
Milligan,  The  NT  Documents,  1913,  Lndwig  Blau,  Htu- 
dien  zum  a/thtbraischen.  Buchwesen,  Strassburg,  1902 
(scholaily;  first  rank);  Leopold  Loew,  Clrnphische  Requi- 
sitcn  und  Erzeugnisse  bei  den  Juden,  Leipzig,  1870-71,  2 
pts.;  Samuel  Krauss,  Talmudische  Arclifiolo^ie,  Leipzig, 
1910-12,  3  vols,  1I[,  131-239,  3001?  (full  critical  notes 
and  references);  Mark  Lidzbarski,  Hundbuch  d.  nonl- 
semitischen  Epigraphik,  1902-8  (also  Ephemeris)',  Alvin 


Xanthicus 
Young  Men 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3126 


zig,  1900;  Ernest  Christian  Wilhclra  Wattenbaeh,  Das 
Mr.hriftwi'xcn  im  M illflnltcr,  Leipzig,  lS!)(i  (has  an  im- 
mense mass  of  original  quotations  of  authorities). 

Sources  for  latest  literature:  W.  Weinberger,  "  Beitriige 
zur  Handschriftenkundc,"  Sitzunyxher.  Akml.  Wii-n.,  !">'.), 
161  (1908-9),  pp.  79-195;  Zentralblatt  f.  Bililiothekswcsen, 
Leipzig  (monthly);  Hortzschansky,  Biblioyraphie  </»'.•>• 
....  Burhwcscns  (annual  cumulation  of  tho  Zentralblatt 
material). 

For  inward  writing  see  modern  general  psychologies 
and  the  books  and  articles  in  Hand's  bibliographical 
supplement  to  Baldwin's  Dirt,  of  rxi/rlmloyy.  For  con- 
tinual ion  literature  see  the  Psychological  In/lex.  For 
various  aspects  of  writing  consult  also  books  on  general 
Bib.  archaeology  (e.g.  Xowack  and  Benzinger),  general 
Intros.  and  arts,  on  "Alphabet,"  "Book,"  "Library," 
"Manuscripts,"  "Textual  Criticism,"  and  other  special 
topics  in  this  or  other  Bib.  and  general  encyclopaedias. 

E.  C.  RlCHAKDSON 


XANTHICUS,  Kiui'thi-kiw  (SavOiKos,  Xantli^ 

AV'N ) :  'I'hc  name  of  a  motil  h  which  occurs  in  2  Mace 
11  30.33.3*.  It  corresponds  to  Xisan  (April)  of  the 
Jewish  calendar.  Sec  CALENDAR;  TIME;  YKALI. 

XERXES,  /erks'e/:  The  name  is  an  attempt  to 
transliterate  into  Gr  (2t))^s,  AY;/\r<X)  the  1'crs 
K/ix/Hii/tirx/id.  The  same  word  in  unpointed  Ileb 
took  the  form  7/.s7///r.s7/,  probably  pronounced 
'dhshawdrash,  but  at  a  later  time  it  \vas  wrongly 
vocalized  so  as  io  produce 'dhashwerosh  (TZJTT"tTnX), 
whence  "Aliasuerus"  in  EY. 

Xerxes  was  king  of  Persia  in  4sr>-4()~>  BC.     The 


first  part  of  his  reign  was  marked  by  the  famous 
campaign  into  Greece,  beginning  in  4X3.  After  the 
defeat  at  Salamis  in  4S()  Xerxes  himself  withdrew 
from  the  expedition  and  it  was  finally  discontinued 
in  tlr-  next  year.  During  the  remainder  of  his 
reign,  Xerxes  seems  to  have  spent  a  listless  exist- 
ence, absorbed  in  hit  rigues  of  t  lie  harem,  and  leaving 
the  government  to  be  carried  on  by  his  ministers 
and  favorites  (Often  slaves).  He  was  finally  mur- 
dered by  his  vizier  and  left  an  unenviable  reputation 
for  caprice  and  cruelty. 

For  the  various  Bib.  references  see  AIIASTKHCS. 
BURTON  SCOTT  EASTON 


YARN,  yarn.     See  LINEN;  Si>[\.vi.\(;;  WEAVING. 

YEA,  ya    ("S?  ,  'tiph,  "also,"  "moreover,"  "yea" 
[1   S  21  5AV;   24  ll,etc|,    ~Z,(/tun,  "also,"  "'like- 
wise,"   "moreover,"    "yea"    (2    Iv  2  i-J ; 

1.  In  the        16  ;{,  etc],    ^2,  1:7,   "inasmuch,"  "cer- 
OT  lainly,"    "doiil)tless,"    "yea"     [Ps  102 

13;  i.05  12,  etc]):  Each  of  these  words 
occurs  frequently,  esp.  the  first  t\vo. 

In  the  NT  we  have:  vai,  nai,  "verily,"  "yea," 
the  usual  particle  of  affirmation  (Mt  5  o7;  9  2S, 

etc);  5e.  (A',  "however,"  "on  the  other 

2.  In  the       hand"(Lk  2  :}f>;  Acts  20  34AV, etc); 
NT  d\Xd,  t,ll,i,    "however,"   "but"    i  Lk  24 

22  A\';  Rom  3  :>1  A\r,  etc);  Kai,  l:,,i, 
"also,"  "besides,"  "yea"  (Acts  3  10;  7  43AV,  etc). 
Christ  forbids  the  employnienl  of  any  affirmation 
stronger  than  the  solemn  repetition  of  the;  first 
mentioned  (Alt  6  37).  EKANK.  E.  Ilntscii 

YEAR,  yer  ("yt" ,  nhanafi,  Aram.  PCTT  ,  xh"n(ifi,  "a 
return"  [of  the  sun],  like  the  (ireviavros,  aiiuntox; 
C'1'C'^ ,  yduntn,  "days,"  is  also  useil  for  "year,"  and 
the  (ir  T)(xepat,  fifincmi,  corresponds  to  it  [Josh  13  1 ; 
Lk  1  7. IS);  «TOS,  ctos,  is  also  employed  frecuiently 
in  the  NT;  for  the  difference"  between  ctns  and 
cniautos,  s(>c  Grimm-Thayer,  s.v.):  The  Heb  year 
was  solar,  although  tin;  month  was  lunar,  the  adjust- 
ment being  made  in  intercalation.  See  ASTRONOMY; 
TIME. 

YEARS,  SEVENTY.     See  SEVENTY  YEARS. 
YELLOW,  yel'o.     See  COLORS. 

YODH,  ydd,  yoth  D :  The  10th  letter  of  the 
Heb  alphabet;  transliterated  in  this  Encyclopaedia 


as  //.     It  came  also  to  be  used  for  the  number  10. 
See  JOD,  and  for  name,  etc,  see  ALPHABET. 

YOKE,  yok: 

(1)  The  usual  word  is  517,  'oZ  (Gen  27  40,  etc), 
less  commonly  the  (apparently  later)  form  n^TD, 
tuoiah  (Isa  58  (i,  etc;  in  Nah  1  13  ETD ,  mot), 
which  RV  in  Jer  27,  28  translates  "bar"  (a  most 
needless  and  obscuring  change).  The  (!r  in  Apoc 


Yoke  of  Ancient  Plow. 


(Sir  28  19,  etc)  and  in  the  NT  (Mt  11  29  f,  etc) 
is  invariably  frybs,  ztigos.  Egyp  monuments  show 
a  yoke  that  consisted  of  a  straight  bar  fastened  to 
the  foreheads  of  the  cattle  at  the  root  of  the  horns, 
and  such  yokes  were  no  doubt  used  in  Pal  also; 
but  the  more  usual  form  was  one  that  rested  on  the 
neck  (Gen  27  40,  etc).  It  was  provided  with 
straight  "bars"  (mototh  in  Lev  26  13;  Ezk  34  27) 
projecting  downward,  against  which  the  shoulders 


3127 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Xanthicus 
Young  Men 


of  (ho  oxen  pressed,  and  it  was  held  in  position  by 
thongs  or  "bonds"  (moKtrolhin  Jer  2  20;  5  f>;  27  2; 
30  S;  'at/huildulh  in  ls;i  58  0,  "bunds"),  fastened 
under  the  animals'  throats.  Such  yokes  could  of 
course  bo  of  any  weight  (I  K  12  4ff),  depending 
on  the  nature  of  the  work  to  bo  done,  but  the  use  of 
"iron  yokes"  (Dt  28  4S;  Jer  28  13  f)  must  have 
boon  very  rare,  if,  indeed,  the  phrase  is  anything 
more  than  a  figure  of  speech. 

What  is  meant  by  "the  yoke  on  their  jaws"  in  Hos  11 

4  is  quite  obscure.      Possibly  a  horse's  bit  is  meant;  pos- 
sibly the  phrase  is  a  condensed  form  for  "the  yoke  that 
prevents   their  feeding";    possibly  the   text   is   corrupt. 
See  JAW. 

The  figurative  use  of  "yoke"  in  the  sense  of  "servi- 
tude" is  intensely  obvious  (cf  esp.  Jer  27,  28j. 
Attention  needs  to  be  called  only  to  Lain  3  27, 
where  "disciplining  sorrow"  is  meant,  and  to  Jor 

5  5,  whore  the  phrase  is  a  figure  for  "the  law  of 
God."     This   last    use    became    popular   with    the 


Lydia,  Epaphroditus,  each  of  whom  had  in  one,  way 
or  another  some  connection  with  Philippi. 

(2)  Kenan    has    suggested    that    yoke-fellow    means 
Lydia  (Acts  16    14.15.40),  and  that  she  had  been  married 
to    Paul.      .But   the   fact   that  the    adj.    yiu'viua,    "true," 
qualifying  "yoke-follow"   is   masc.  and  not  fern,   shows 
that  it  is  not  a  woman  but  a  man  who  is  referred  to. 
.Kenan's    suggestion  is  an    unworthy   one,    and    is    quite 
devoid  of  proof.      It  is  a  mere  fanciful  and  unsupported 
creation  of  the   Frenchman's  brain.      Kenan's  idea  is  a 
modification  of  an  opinion  which  is  as  old  us  Clement  of 
Alexandria,    that    Paul    here   referred    to    his    own    wife. 
But  this  conjecture  is  contradicted  by  the  statement  of 
the  apostle  himself,  that  lie  had  not  a  wife  (1   Cor  7  <S; 
9  5). 

(3)  There   is   still   another   way   of    interpreting 
"yoke-fellow,"   and   probably   it,   is   the   right,   one. 
Some  expositors  take  the  word  as  a  proper  name. 
Among  these  Westcott  and  Hort  print  "Sunzuge,"  in 
the  margin.     In  favor  of  this  interpretation  there  is 
much  to  bo  said,  esp.  the  fact  that  the  word  is  found 
in  the  very  midst  of  the  names  of  other  persons. 


PLOWING  IN  SYKIA   WITH  YOKF.S   OK  OXKN. 


Jews  at  a  later  period  and  it  is  found,  o.g.  in  Apoc 
Bar  41  3;  Ps  Sol  7  9;  17  32;  Ab,  iii.7,  and  in 
this  sense  the  phrase  is  employed  by  Christ  in  Mt 
11  29  f.  "My  yoke"  here  means  "the  service  of 
God  as  I  teach  it"  (the  common  interpretation, 
"the  sorrows  that  I  boar,"  is  utterly  irrelevant) 
and  the  emphasis  is  on  "my."  The  contrast  is  not 
between  "yoke"  and  "no  yoke,"  but  between  "my 
teaching"  (light  yoke)  and  "the  current  scribal 
teaching"  (heavy  yoke). 

(2)  "Yoke"  in  the  sense  of  "a  pair  of  oxen"  is 
T522!  ,  gctncdh  (1  S  11  7,  etc),  or  frvyos,  zeuyos  (Lk 
14  19). 

See  also  UNEQUAL;   YOKE-FELLOW. 

BURTON  SCOTT  E ASTON 

YOKE-FELLOW,  yok'fel-o  (o-vvtxj-yos,  sunzugos, 
"yoked  together"):  The  word  is  used  by  Gr  writers 
of  those  united  by  any  bond,  such  as  marriage, 
rolat  ionship,  office,  labor,  study  or  business;  hence  a 
yoke-follow,  consort,  comrade,  colleague  or  partner. 

(1)  In  the  NT  it  occurs  once  only  (Phil  4  3): 
"I  beseech  thee  also,  true  yoke-fellow."  Most 
interpreters  hold  that  Paul  here  addresses  some 
particular  but  unnamed  person,  who  had  formerly 
been  associated  with  him  in  the  work  of  the  gospel 
in  Philippi.  Many  guesses  have  been  made  in 
regard  to  the  identity  of  the  unnamed  "yoke- 
fellow," and  these  names  have  been  suggested :  Luke, 


The  names  of  Euodia  and  Syntychc  are  mentioned 
immediately  before,  and  that  of  Clement  follows 
immediately  after  the  true  yoke-follow.  The  mean- 
ing therefore  is  probably,  "I  beseech  thee  also,  true 
Synzygos,"  i.e.  1  beseech  thee,  who  art  a  genuine 
Synzygos,  a  colleague  rightly  so  called,  a  colleague 
in  fact  as  well  as  in  name.  It  is  obvious  to  compare 
the  way  in  which  the  apostle  plays  upon  the  name 
Onesimus,  in  Philem  ver  11. 

JOHN  R  UTIIERFURD 

YOUNG,  yung,  MEN,  YOUNG  WOMEN  O?n3  , 
bahur,  "!>'?,  n<far;  veavCas,  ncanlas,  veavio-KOs, 
HtaiiixkoH):  "Young  man"  is  generally  in  the  OT 
the  tr  of  bahur,  from  bdhar,  "to  prove,"  "to  choose," 
and  of  ncfar  (lit.  "boy,"  but  used  sometimes  also 
of  a  girl).  The  former  term  denotes  a  young  man, 
no  longer  a  mere  youth,  but  liable  to  military 
service  (Dt  32  25;  "  Jgs  14  10;  1  S  8  16;  2  K 
8  12,  etc).  In  Nu  11  2S,  AV  "Joshua  ....  the 
servant  of  Moses,  one  of  his  young  men"  (Ifhtirlm), 
RV  renders  "one  of  his  chosen  men,"  in  "from  his 
youth."  Nct*ar  is  frequently  used  (sing,  and  pi.) 
of  soldiers  (1  S  14  1.6;  2i  1;  25  5.S.9;  2  S  1 
5.6.15,  etc).  Abraham's  "young  men"  (ne'anm) 
were  "trained  servants,"  "trained  men,"  warriors 
(Gen  14  24;  cf  ver  14  RV).  The  word  is  often 
in  the  OT  trd  "servant":  thus  in  RV  for  AV 
"young  man,"  "young  men"  (Gen  18  7;  2  K  4 


Zaanaim 
Zadok 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


22;  1  K  20  14  KVin).  In  the  NT,  the  ordinary 
words  for  ''young  man"  arc  timnias  (Acts  7  5S; 
20  9;  23  17.18.22)  and  ncatiixkox  (Mt  19  20.22; 
Mk  14  f>l,  etc).  "Young  men"  in  Acts  5  (i  is 
neotcroi,  comparative  of  neos.  "young,"  recent ;  the 
fern,  of  the  latter  word  is  "young  women"  in  Tit 


2  4,  and  ncolcrni  is  "younger  women"  (RV 
"widows")  in  1  Tim  6  14.  In  both  the  OT  and 
the  NT  young  men  are  earnestly  exhorted  to  wis- 
dom and  sober-mindedness  (Prov  1  S.9;  Eccl  11 
9;  12  1.13.14;  Tit  2  6,  "discreet";  cf  Wisd  9 
11),  etc.  W.  L.  WALKER 


ZAANAIM,  za-a-iuYim.     Sec  ZAAXAXXIM. 

ZAANAN,  zFi'a-nan  ("7??,  yfiinait; 
Kcntuuir):  A  place  named  by  Micah  in  the  She- 
phelah  of  Judah  (111).  In  this  sentence  the  prophet 
makes  verbal  play  with  the  name,  as  if  it  were  de- 
rived from  yiiqtT ,  "to  go  forth":  "The  inhabitant 
[in  "inhabit ress"]  of  fa'&nan  is  not  come  forth" 
(i/(lc''ah).  The  place  is  not  identified.  It  is  prob- 
ably the  same  as  ZEN  AN. 

ZAANANNIM,  za-a-nan'im,  PLAIN  OR  OAK 
OF  (Z"!!"^5  flbX  ,  \~!<l/i  b'Cf/'anrn/ii/i.  or  2^?:"?5  , 
b'ga^'&nannlm;  B,Beo-a(ii€iv,  hintunicin,  A,  BecravavC|i, 
licHriHiinim  [Josh  19  33];  in  Jgs  4  11  B  translates 
irXeoveKTOvvTtov,  pleonektfflinton,  and  A,  dvairavo- 
\i.fvu>v,  (i/i/i/)/iU(»ncnun):  In  Josh  19  33  AV  reads 
"Alton  to  Zaanannim,"  KY  "the  oak  in  Zaanan- 
nim,"  PiVm  "oak  [or  terebinth]  of  Bezaanannim." 
In  Jgs  411  AV  reads  "plain  of  Zaanaim,"  RV  "oak 
in  Zaanannim."  It  is  probable  that  the  same 
place  is  intended  in  the  two  passages.  It  was  a 
place  on  the  southern  border  of  the  territory  of 
Naphtali  (Josh),  and  near  it  the  tent  of  Heber  the 
Kenite  was  pitched  (Jgs).  The  absence  of  the  art. 
before  'elon  shows  that  the  //'  is  not  the  preposition 
before  z,  but  the  first  letter  of  the  name,  which  ac- 
cordingly should  be  read  "Bezaanannim."  We 
should  naturally  look  for  it  near  Adami  and  Nekeb. 
This  agrees  also  with  the  indications  in  Jgs,  if  the 
direction  of  Sisera's flight  suggested  in  MF.KOZ  (q.v.) 
is  correct.  The  Kadesh,  then,  of  Jgs  411  may  be 
represented  by  the  ruin  Kudlxh  on  the  western 
shore  of  the  Sea  of  C.alilee;  and  in  the  nameKhirbet 
Bcssum,  about  3  miles  N.I'],  of  Tabor,  there  is  per- 
haps an  echo  of  Bezaanannim.  W.  EWIXG 

ZAAVAN,  zo/a-van  (TJ5I ,  ztftiiran,  meaning 
unknown):  A  Horite  descendant  of  Seir  (Clcn  36 
27;  1  Ch  1  42).  In  1  Ch  Luc.  has  Zavdv,  Zaiiun 
=  Sam  ]IHT  ,  i.e.  Znw*an,  from  a  root  meaning  "to 
tremble,"  "fear"  (see  DT  .  BDB).  AV  has  "Zavan" 
in  1  Ch. 

ZABAD,  za'bad  (™2T  ,  zabliadh,  perhaps  a  con- 
traction for  [1]  zcbh(idliydh,  "Jeh  has  given,"  i.e. 
Zebadiah;  or  [2]  zabtidl'cl,  "El  [Clod]  is  my  gift" 
(II  I'X,  222  fj;  Zape'5[TJ,  Zabe<l[/},  with  many  vari- 
ants) : 

(1)  AJerahmeelite(l  Ch  2  36.37),  son  of  Nathan 
(see  NATHAN',  IV). 

(2)  An  Ephraimite,  son  of  Tahath  (1  Ch  7  21). 

(3)  SonofAhlai(l  Ch  11  41)  and  one  of  David's 
mighty  men  (the  name  is  wanting  in  2  S  23  24-29). 

(4)  Son  of  Shimeath  the  Ammonitcss  (2  Ch  24 
26);   he  was  one  of  the  murderers  of  King  Joash  of 
Judah;    called   "Jozacar"   in  2  K  12  21    (Ileb  ver 
22).     Perhaps   the   name   in   Ch   should   be   Zacar 
p3T  ,  zukhur). 

(5)  Name  of  three  men  who  had  married  foreign 
wives:    (a)  son  of  Zattu  (Ezr  10  27)  =  "Sabathus" 
of    1   Esd  9  2S;     (b)  son  of  Hashum  (Ezr  10  33)  = 
"Sabanneus"  of  1  Esd  9  33;    (c)  son  of  Nebo  (Ezr 
10  43)  =  "Zabadeas"  of  1  Esd  9  35. 

DAVIU  FMAXCIS  ROBERTS 


ZABADAEANS,     /ab-a-de'anz    (Zapa8aioi,    Zn- 

bii/liiini;  AV  Zabadeans;  Ocsterley,  in  Charles, 
AJHIC,  I,  1  12,  j)refers,  on  what  seems  insufficient  evi- 
dence, to  read  "Gabadeans";  Jos  [Ant,  XIII,  v,  1()| 
f>y  an  obvious  error  has  "Nabaloans"):  According 
to  1  Mace  12  31,  an  Arabian  tribe,  defeated  and 
spoiled  by  Jonathan  after  his  victory  in  Haniath 
and  before  he  came  to  Damascus.  There  is  an 
ez-Zebedarti  about  25  miles  N.W.  of  Damascus  (now 
a  station  on  the  railway  to  Beirut),  on  the  eastern 
slope  of  the  Anti-Lebanon  range.  This  town  may 
very  well  have  preserved  the  name  of  the  Zaba- 
daeans.  and  its  situation  accords  nicely  with  Jona- 
than's movements  in  1  Mace  12. 

BTKTON  SCOTT  EASTOX 
ZABADAIAS,  zab-a-da'yas.     AV  =  RV  ZABADEAS 

(q.v.) 

ZABADEAS,  zab-a-de'as  (Za(3a8a£as,  Zabadalas; 
AV  Zabadaias) :  One  of  the  sons  of  Noorna  who  put 
away  their  foreign  wives  (1  Esd  9  3/5)  =  "Zabad" 
of  ]-:/r  10  43. 

ZABBAI,  zab'a-i,  zab'l  pST ,  zabbay,  meaning 
unknown ;  Zapov,  Zabnu) '. 

(1)  One  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives 
(Ezr  10  2Si  =  "J<,zabdus"  of  1  Esd  9  29. 

(2)  Father  of  Baruch  (Neh  3  20).     The  K-re  has 
^T,  zakkay-"Za,cca,i"  of  Ezr  2  9;   Neh  7  14. 

ZABBUD,  zab'ud  ("13T ,  zctbfmdh,  meaning  un- 
certain; Ezr  8  14,  where  Kcre  is  znkkur  nm\  Kethlbh 
is  zabhudh="Z&bud";  1  Esd  8  40  has  "Istal- 
carus";:  A  companion  of  Ezra  on  his  journey  from 
Babylon  to  Jerus. 

ZABDEUS,  zab-de'us  (ZapSalos,  Zabdaios):  In 
1  Esd  9  21  =  "Zebadiah"  of  Ezr  10  20. 

ZABDI,  zab'dl  CHIT,  zabhdl,  perhaps  "[a]  gift 
of  Jeh"  or  "my  gift"  =  NT  "Zebedee"): 

(1)  An     ancestor     of     Achan     (Josh  7  1.17. IS). 
SomeLXX  MSS  and  1  Ch  2  6  have  "Ximri"  PI^T  , 
ziHiri)',  "tht1  confusion  of  3  (b]  and  "Q  [m]  is  phonetic, 
of  "I  [d]  and  1  [r]  graphic"  (Curtis,  Chron.,  86).    See 

ZlMRI   (3). 

(2)  A  Benjamite,  son  of  Shimei  (1  Ch  8  19),  and 
possibly  a  descendant  of  Ehud  (Curtis). 

(3)  "The  Shiphmite,"  one  of  David's  officers  who 
had  charge  of  the  wine-cellars  (1  Ch  27  27).     LXX 
B  has  Zaxpei,  Zachrei  (probably  Zichri). 

(4)  An  ancestor  of  Mattaniah  (Neh  11  17).    Luc. 
and  1  Ch  9  15  have  "Zichri."     See  ZICHRI,  I,  2. 

DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 

ZABDIEL,  zab'di-el  (^SrHaT ,  zabhdl' el,  "my 
gift  is  El  [God]";  ZapS^X,  Zabdiel): 

(1)  Father  of  Jashobeam  (1  Ch  27  2),  or  rather 
Ishbaal  (Curtis,  Chron.,  290  f). 

(2)  An  overseer  of  the  priests  (Neh  11   14). 

(3)  An  Arabian  who  beheaded  Alexander  Balas 
and  sent  his  head  to  Ptolemy  (1  Mace  11  17). 

ZABUD,   zFi'bud    (TQT ,    zabhudh,   "bestowed"): 

(1)   A  son  of  Nathan  (the  prophet,  probably)  said 

in  K  to  be  chief  minister  to  Solomon  and  also  the 


3129 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zaanaim 
Zadok 


king's  friend  (1  K  4  .5;  1  Ch  2  .SO).  ARVin  h;is 
"priest"  for  "chief  minister."  Bcnzinger  (Kurz. 
Hand-Comm.,  IS)  holds  that  "this  expression  is  a 
marginal  gloss  here,"  while  Kittel  (Haitdkotnm.,  31) 
holds  it  to  be  genuine,  though  it,  is  wanting  in  LXX. 
Some  suggest  "pC  ,  sokfien  (see  SIIKBXA)  for  "~3  , 
kohen.  The;  expression  "king's  friend"  Of  2  S  15 
37;  16  10)  is,  says  Kittel,  an  old  Can.  title,  found 
also  in  the  Am  Tab. 

(2)  See  ZACCUK,  (4);  PRIESTS  AND  LEVITES. 

DAVID   FRANCIS   ROHKRTS 

ZABULON,  zab'n-lon  (Zap0uX.u>v,  Zabonlott):    (Ir 
form  of  "Zebulun"  of  Mt  4  13.10;   Rev  7  s  AV. 

ZACCAI,  zak'a-i,  zak'I.     See  ZAHMAI,  (2). 

ZACCHAEUS,  za-ke'us   (ZaKxaios,   Zakchaion, 
from  "^ST  ,  zakkny,  "pure"): 

(1)  A  publican  with  whom  Jesus  lodged  during 
His  stay  in  Jericho  (Lk  19  1-10).     He  is  not  men- 
tioned in  t  lie  other  ( Jospels.      Being  a  chief  publican, 
or  overseer,  among  the  tax-gatherers,  Zacchaeus  had 
additional  opportunity,   by   farming  the   taxes,   of 
increasing    that    wealth    for    which    his    class    was 
famous.     Yet  his  mind  was  not  entirely  engrossed 
by  material  considerations,  for  lie  joined"  the  throng 
which  gathered  to  see  Jesus  on  His  entrance  into  the 
city.     Of  little  stature,  he  was  unable  either  to  see 
over  or  to  make  his  way  through  the  press,   and 
therefore   scaled  a  sycomore   tree.     There   he   was 
singled    out    by   Jesus,   who    said    to    him.    "Zac- 
chaeus,  make  haste,  and  come  down;    for  to-day  I 
must  abide  at  thy  house"  (ver  5).     The  offer  thus 
frankly  made  by  Jesus  was  accepted  eagerly  and 
gladly  by  Zacchaeus;    and  the  murmurings  of  the 
crowd  marred  the  happiness  of  neither.     How  com- 
pletely the  new  birth  was  accomplished  in  Zacchaeus 
is  testified  by  his  vow  to  give  half  of  his  goods  to 
the  poor,  and  to  make  fourfold  restitution  where  he 
had  wrongfully  exacted.     The  incident  reveals  the 
Christian  truth  that  just  as  the  publican  Zacchaeus 
was  regarded  by  the  rest  of  the  Jews  as  a  sinner  and 
renegade  who  was  unworthy  to  be  numbered  among 
the  sons  of  Abraham,  and  was  yet  chosen  by  Our 
Lord  to  be  His  host,  so  the  social  outcast  of  modern 
life  is  still  a  son  of  God,  within  whose  heart  the  spirit 
of  Christ  is  longing  to  make  its  abode.     "For  the 
Son  of  man  came  to  seek  and  to  save  that  which 
was  lost"  (ver  10). 

(2)  An  officer  of  Judas  Maccabaeus  (2  Mace  10 
19). 

(3)  A    Zac-chaeus    is    mentioned    in    the     Clementine 
Homilies   (iii.63)    as   haying    been    a  companion    of   St. 
Peter  and  appointed   bishop  of  Caesarea. 

(4)  According   to   the   Gospel   of   the   Childhood,   by 
Thomas,  Zacchaeus  was  also  the  name  of  the  teacher  o'f 
the  boy  Jesus. 

C.   M.   KKRR 

ZACCUR,    zak'ur    ("^3~ ,  znkkur,  perhaps  "ven- 
triloquist" [Gray,  Nu,  137]j: 

(1)  Father  of  Shammua  the  Reubenite  spv  (Nu 
13  4). 

(2)  A  Simconitc  (1  Ch  4  20);   AV  "Zacchur." 

(3)  Levites:     (a)  a  Merarite   (1  Ch  24  27);    (t>) 
a    "son"    of    Asaph    (1  Ch  25  2.10;     Neh  12  3.5); 
(c)  Neh  10  12  (Heb  ver  13),  arid  probably  the  same 
as  in  Neh  13  13,  father  of  Hanan. 

(4)  A  marginal  reading  in  Ezr  8  14  for  Zabbud 
where  Kcthlbh  is  really  "Zabud";   see  ZABBUD. 

(/>)  Son  of  Imri  and  one  of  the  builders  of  Jerus 
(Neh  3  2).  DAVID  FRANCIS   ROBKRTS 

ZACCHUR,  zak'ur.     See  ZACCUR. 

ZACHARIAH,   zak-a-rl'a    (Zaxapias,    Zaclxirias; 
AV  Zacharias): 


(1)  The  son  of  Barachiah,   who,   Jesus  says,   was 
slain  between  the  temple  and  the  altar  (Alt'  23  35; 
Lk  11  .51).     The  allusion  seems  to  be  to  the  murder 
of  Zechariah,  the  son  of  Jehoiada  (2  Ch  24  20  if;. 
In  this  case  "Barachiah"  would  seem  to  be  a  gloss 
which   has  crept   into    the    text    through   confusion 
with  the  name  of  the  father  of  the  prophet  Zechariah, 
BKRKCHIAH  (q.v.). 

(2)  Set;  ZECHARIAH. 


ZACHARIAS,  zak-a-rl'as   (  Zaxaptas,   Zacti(irio.<i'): 

(1)  One  of  the  "rulers  of  the  temple"  at  the  time 
of  Josiah's  Passover   (1   Esd  1  Sj  =  "Zechariah"   of 
2  Ch  35  8. 

(2)  One  of  the   "holy  singers"  at   Josiah's  Pass- 
over  (1   Esd  1   15j;    the  name  stands  in   place  of 
"Ileman"  in  2  Ch  35   1.5. 

(3)  In   1    Esd  6   1;    7  3  =  the  prophet    Zechariah. 

(4)  One  of  the  sons  of  Pharos  who  returned  with 
Ezra    at_  the    head    of   his    family    (1   Esd  8  30)== 
"Zechariah"  of  Ezr  8  3,  and  perhaps  identical  with 
(5). 

(.5)  One  of  the  "men  of  understanding"  with 
whom  Ezra  consulted  when  he  discovered  the  ab- 
sence of  priests  and  Levites  (1  Esd  8  44;  =  "Zecha- 
riah" of  Ezr  8  10,  and  perhaps  identical  with  (0). 

(0)  Zacharias  (om.  in  AV),  who  stood  on  Ezra's 
left  hand  as  he  expounded  the  Law  (1  Esd  9  44)  = 
"Zechariah"  of  Neh  8  4. 

(7)  One  of  the  sons  of  Babi  who  went  up  at  the 
head  of  his  family  with  Ezra  (1  Esd  8  37)  = 
"Zechariah"  of  Ezr  8  11. 

(5)  One   of   the   sons   of   Elam   who    had    taken 
foreign   wives    (1  Esd  9  2  T)  -=  "Zechariah"    of    Ezr 
10  20. 

(9)  The  father  of  Joseph,  one  of  the  "leaders  of 
the  people1"  under  Judas  (1    Mace  5   IS.  ,50). 

(10)  AV  =  RV  "Zaraias"  (I  Esd  5  S). 

(11)  AV  =  RV  "Zachariah"  of  Mt  23  3.5. 

S.  ANGUS 

ZACHARIAS  (ZaXaptas,  Zacharias):  Father  of 
John  the  Baptist  (Lk  1  .5,  etc).  He  was  a  priest 
of  the  course  of  ABI.IAII  (q.v.),  of  blameless  life, 
who  in  his  old  age  was  still  childless.  But  on  one 
occasion  when  it  was  the  turn  of  the  course  of 
Abijah  to  minister  in  the  temple  (see  TEMPLE), 
Zacharias  was  chosen  by  lot  to  burn  incense.  While 
engaged  in  this  duty  he  was  visited  by  Gabriel,  who 
announced  to  him  that  he  should  become  the  father 
of  the  precursor  of  the  Messiah.  Zacharias  received 
the  promise  incredulously  and  was  punished  by 
being  stricken  dumb.  When,  however,  the  child 
was  born  and  Zacharias  had  obeyed  the  injunction 
of  (  labriel  by  insisting  on  the  name  John,  his  powers 
of  speech  returned  to  him.  According  to  Lk  1 
07-79,  Zacharias  was  the  author  of  the  hymn  Bene- 
dict us,  which  describes  God's  deliverance  of  Israel 
in  language  drawn  entirely  from  the  OT,  and  which 
is  unaffected  by  the  later  Christian  realization  that 
the  Kingdom  is  also  for  Gentiles. 

Elisabeth,  his  wife,  was  of  the  daughters  of  Aaron 
(Lk  1  .5)  and  kinswoman  of  the  Virgin  (1  30;  the 
relationship  is  altogether  obscure).  According  to 
1  42-4.5,  she  was  one  of  those  who  shared  in  the 
secret  of  the  Annunciation.  A  few  MSS  in  Lk  1 
40  ascribe  the  Magnificat  to  her,  but  this  seems 
certainly  erroneous.  See  esp.  Zahn,  Evangelium  des 
Lucas,  98-101  and  74.5-751  (1913). 

13URTON    Sc<  >TT    1^  \STON 

ZACHARY,  zak'a-ri  (Lat  Zacharias):  AV  and  RV 
in  2  Esd  1  40=  the  prophet  Zechariah. 

ZACHER,  za'ker.     See  ZECHER. 

ZADOK,  za'dok  (pi"2  ,  once  pl£  ,  fail  ft  ok  {  1  K 
1  20],  similar  to  p"1^?  ,  fdddlk,  and  p^n£  ,  cadduk. 
post-Bib.,  meaning  Justus,  "righteous";  LXX  2a5u>K, 


Zadok 
Zamoth 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3130 


fiailok):  Cheyne  in  HB  suggests  that  Z.  was  a  modi- 
fication of  :i  "ientilic  name,  that  of  the  Zidkites  in 
tlio  Negeb,  who  probably  derived  Iheir  appellation 
from  p~2  ,  f<lk,  a  secondary  tille  of  the  god  they 
worshipped.  At  the  same  time  Chcyne  admits 
that  cultivated  Israelites  may  have  interpreted 
Zadok  as  meaning  "just,"  "righteous" — a  much 
more  credible  supposition. 

(1)  Z.  the  son  of  Ahitub  (2  $  8  17)— not  of 
Ahitub  (lie  ancestor  of  Ahimeloch  (1  S  14  3)  and 
of  Abiathar,  his  son  (1  S  22  20). 

(1>)  YJ.  father  of  .Icrusha.  mother  of  Jotham,  and  wife 
of  I'z/iah  king  of  .Judah  C2  K  15  '.M;  2  Ch  27  1). 

C!)  /.  the  son  of  Ahitub  and  father  of  Shalhun  (1  Ch 
6  I-')  or  Meshullam  (.Neh  11  11),  and  the  ancestor  of 
Ezra  (7  l.L'). 

(1)  /.  tlie  son  of  Baana,  a  wall-builder  in  the  time  of 
Nehcmiall  (Xeh  31',  and  probably  one  of  the  signatories 
to  the  covenant  made  by  the  princes,  priests  and  Levitts 
of  Israel  (Xeh  10  -.'I)  in  bo(  li  places  his  name  occurring 
immediately  after  that  of  Moshczahel. 

(">)  YJ.  the  son  of  Immcr,  and,  like  the  preceding,  a 
repairer  of  the  wall  (.Nell  3  -!». 

((>)  YJ.  a  scribe  in  the  lime  of  Xehemiuh  (13  13). 
"Whether  this  was  the  same  as  either  of  the  two  preceding 
cannot  bo  determined. 

The  first  of  these  filled  a  larger  place  in  OT  history 
than  oil  her  of  the  others;  and  to  him  accordingly 

the  following  paragraphs  refer.  They  set  forth  the 
accounts  given  of  him  first  in  S  and  K  and  next  in 
Ch;  after  \\hich  they  state  and  criticize  the  critical 
theory  concerning  him. 

(1)  In    (hoc    older   sources    Z.    first    appears    in 
David's  reign,  after  Israel  and  Judah  were  united 

under    him,    as    joint     occupant    with 

1.  In  S  Ahimclcch  of  the   high   priest's   office, 
and  K  his  name  taking  precedence  of  that  of 

his    colleague    Ahimelech,    the  son   of 
Abiathar  (2  S  8  17;. 

(2)  On  David's  flight  from  Jems,  occasioned  by 
Absalom's  rebellion,  Zadok  and  Abiathar  (now  the; 
joint  high  priest),  accompanied  by  the  whole  body 
of  the  Levitcs,  followed  the  king  across  the  Kidron, 
bearing  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant,  which,  however, 
they  were  directed  to  carry  back  to  the  city,  taking 
wit  h  them  their  t  wo  sons,  Ahimaaz  (he  son  of  Zadok, 
and  Jonathan  the  son  of  Abiathar,  to  act  as  spies 
upon  the  conduct  of  the  rebels  and  send  information 
to  the  king  (2  S  15  24-3(1;    17  15.17-21). 

(3)  On  the  death  of  Absalom,  Z.  and  Abiathar 
were  employed  by  David  as  intermediaries  between 
himself  and  t  he  elders  of  Judah  to  consult  about  his 
return  to  the  city,  which  through  their  assistance 
was  successfully  brought  about  (2  S  19  11). 

(!)  When,  toward  the  end  of  David's  life,  Adoni- 
jah  the  son  of  Ilaggith,  and  therefore  the  crown 
prince,  put  forward  his  claim  to  the  throne  of  all 
Israel,  taking  counsel  with  Joab  and  Abiathar,  Z. 
along  wit  h  Henaiah,  the  son  of  Jehoiada,  and  Nathan 
the  prophet,  espoused  the  cause  of  Solomon,  Bath- 
sheba's  son,  and  acting  on  David's  instructions 
anointed  him  as  king  in  Gihon  (1  K  1  8.2(1. 32 -4")). 

(5)  Accordingly,  when  Solomon  found  himself 
established  on  the  throne,  he  put  Z.  in  the  room  of 
Abiathar,  i.e.  made  him  sole  high  priest,  while  re- 
taining Abiathar  in  the  priestly  office,  though 
deposed  from  a  position  of  coordinate  authority 
with  Z.  (IK  2  20.27.:;.-);  4  4). 

(1)  As  in   the  earlier  sources  so   in   these,   Z.'s 
father  was  Ahitub  and  his  son  Ahimaaz — the  in- 
formation being  added  that   they  were 

2.  In  Ch        all  descendants  from   Aaron   through 

Eleazar  (1  Ch  6  50-53). 

(2)  Among  the  warriors  who  came  to  Hebron  to 
turn  the  kingdom  of  Saul  to  David  was  "Z.,  a  young 
man  mighty  of  valor,"  who  was  followed  by  22  cap- 
tains of  his  father's  house  (1  Ch  12  2(1  -2S). 

(3)  Along  with  Abiathar  and  the  Levites,  Z.  was 
directed  by  David  to  bring  up  the  Ark  from  the 


house  of  Obed-edom  to  the  tent  pitched  for  it  on 
Mt.  Zion,  when  Z.  was  appointed  to  officiate  at 
Gibeon,  while  Abiathar,  it  is  presumed,  ministered  in 
Jerus  (1  Ch  15  11;  16  39). 

(4)  Toward   the   end   of   David's   reign    Z.    and 
Abimelech  the  son  of  Abiathar  acted  as  priests,  Z. 
as  before  having  precedence   (1  Ch  18  16). 

(5)  To  them  was  committed  by  the  aged  king 
the  task  of  arranging  the;  priests  and  Levites  accord- 
ing to  their  several  duties,  it  being  intimated  by 
the  narrator  that  Z.  was  of  the  sons  of  Eleazar,  and 
Ahimelech  (in  18   It),  named  Abiathar;    see  above) 
of   the  sons   of    Ithamar    (1  Ch  24  3).     In    ver   0 
Ahimelech  is  called  (he  son  of  Abiathar,  while  in  18 
](i,    Abiathar's   son   is   Abimelech — which   suggests 
that  the  letters  b  and  h  were  interchangeable  in  the 
name  of  Abiathar's  sons. 

((>)  When   Solomon  was  anointed  king,   Z.   was 
anointed    (sole)   priest   (1  Ch  29  22). 

Obviously  a  large  measure  of  agreement  exists 
between    the    two    narratives.     Yet    some    points 

demand  explanat  ion. 

3.  Harmony  (1)  The  seeming  discrepancy  be- 
of  the  tween  the  statements  in  the  earlier 

Accounts  sources,  that  Z.'s  colleague  in  (he;  high 
priest's  office  is  first  named  Ahimelech 
(2  S  8  17)  and  _ afterward  Abiathar  (2  S  15  21), 
should  occasion  lit  tie  perplexity.  Either  Ahimelech 
and  Abiathar  were  one  and  the  same  person — not 
an  unlikely  supposition  (see  above);  or,  what  is 
more  probable,  Abiathar  was  Ahimelech's  son  and 
had  succeeded  to  his  father's  office. 

(2)  Z.'s  appearance  as  a  young  soldier  among  the 
captains  who  brought  David  to  Jerus   (assuming 
that  Z.  (he  soldier  was  Z.  the  priest,  which  is  not 
absolutely  certain)  need  create  no  difficulty,  if  Z. 
was  not  then  of  age  to  succeed  his  father  in  the 
priestly  office.     The  earlier  sources  do  not  make  Z. 
an  acting  priest  till  after  David's  accession  to  the 
throne  of  all  Israel. 

(3)  Neither  should  it  prove  an  insoluble  problem 
to  explain  how,  soon  after  David's  accession  to  the 
throne  of  Judah  and  Israel,  Z.  should  be  found  en- 
gaged along  with  Abiathar  in  bringing  up  the  Ark 
to  Alt .  Zion,  as  by  this  time  Z.  had  obviously  entered 
on  the  high-prie.-t  ly  office,  either  in  succession  to 
or  as  colleague  of  his  father. 

(4)  That  Z.  was  left  to  officiate  at  Gibeon  where 
the  tabernacle  was,  while  .Abiathar  was  selected  to 
exercise  office  in  1  he  capital,  in  no  way  conflicts  wit  h 
the  earlier  account  and  seems  reasonable;  as  a  dis- 
tribution of  official  duties.     Why  Z.   was  sent  to 
Gibeon,  where  the  tabernacle  was,  and  not  kept  at 
Jerus  whither  the  Ark  had  been  brought,  he  being 
always  named  before  Abiathar  and  probably  looked 
upon  as  the  principal  high  priest,  may  have  had  its 
reason   either  in   the  fact  that  the  king  regarded 
Gibeon  as  the  central  sanctuary  for  national  wor- 
ship, the  tabernacle  being  there  (Solomon  obviously 
did;    see  2  Ch  1  3),   and  therefore  as  the  proper 
place  for  the  principal  high  priest ;  or  in  the  fact  that 
Z.  was  younger  than  Abiathar  and  therefore  less 
fitted  than  his  older  colleague  to  be  at  court,  as  an 
adviser  to  the  king. 

(5)  That  toward  the  end  of  David's  reign,  not 
Abiathar,  but  his  son  Ahimelech   (or  Abimelech), 
should  be  introduced  as  joint  high  priest  with  Z. 
will  not  be  surprising,  if  Abiathar  was  by  this  time 
an  old  man,  as  his  father  was  at  the  beginning  of 
David's    reign.     That    grandfather    and    grandson 
should  have  the  same  name  is  as  likely  to  have  been 
common  then  as  it  is  today. 

(d)  That  Z.  should  have  been  appointed  sole  high 
priest  on  Solomon's  accession  (1  Ch  29  22)  is  not- 
inconsistent  with  the  statement  (1  K  4  4)  that 
under  Solomon  Z.  and  Abiathar  were  priests. 


3131 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zadok 
Zamoth 


Abiathar  might  si  ill  he  recognized  :is  a  priest  or 
even  :is  a  high  priest,  though  no  longer  net  ing  as 
such.  Tlie  act,  of  deposition  may  have  aflectod  li1-; 
son  Ahinielech  as  well,  and  if  both  father  and  son 
were  degraded,  ]>erhaps  Ihis  was  only  to  the  extent 
of  excluding  them  from  the  chief  dignity  of  high 
priest. 


4.  The 
Higher 
Critical 
Theory 


The  higher  criticism  holds :  ( 1 )  t  hat  the  Z.  of  David's 
reign  was  not  really  an  Aaronite  descended  from 
Elea/.ar  through  Ahitub,  who  was  not 
Z.'s  father  l>nt  Ahimt  lech's  ((iray  in 
Eli,  art.  "Ahitub"),  but  an  adventurer, 
a  soldier  of  fortune  who  had  climbed  up 
into  the  priest's  office,  though  by  what 
means  is  not  known  ( Wellhauscn,  (/./,  115) ; 
(2)  that  up  till  Z.'s  appearance  the  priest- 
hood had  been  in  llhamar's  line,  though, 
according  to  the  insertion  by  a  later  writer  in  the  text  of 

1  S  2  (see  vs  -27  If),  in  Eli's  day  it  was  predicted  that  it 
should  pass  from  Eli's  house  and  be  given  to  another; 
(3)  that  when  Abiatharor  Ahinielech  or  both  wore  deposed 
and  Z.  instituted  sole  high  priest  by  Solomon,  this  ficti- 
tious   prophecy    was    fulfilled    -though    in    reality    then! 
was  neither  prophecy  nor  fulfilment;    (4)  that  during  the 
exile  K/ekicl    in   his   sketch   of   the  vision-temple  repre- 
sented the  Zadokitos  as  the  only  legitimate  priests,  while 
the  others  of  the  line  of  A.  were  degraded  to  be  Levites; 
(5)   that  in  order  to  establish  the  legitimacy  of  Z.   the 
writer  of  P  invented  his  Aaronic  descent  through  Elcazar 
and  inserted  the  fictitious  prophecy  in  1   S. 

(1)  This  theory  proceeds  upon  the  assumption,  not 
that  the  Chronicler  was  a  post-exilic  writer  (which  is 
admitted),    but   that   he   deliberately   and 
6.   Criticism  purposely  idealized  and  to  that  extent  falsi- 
nf  TViic  "tl(l  l 'H'  P;lsl-  history  of  his  people  by  ascrib- 

ing to  them  a  faithful  adherence  to  the 
Theory  Levitical  institutions  of  the  PC,  which, 

according  to  this  theory,  wen;  not  then  in 
existence — in  other  words  by  representing  the  religious 
institutions  and  observances  of  his  own  age  as  having 
existed  in  the  nation  from  the  beginning.  "Were  this 
theory  established  by  well-accredited  facts,  it  would 
doubtless  require  to  be,  accepted;  but  the  chief,  if  not 
the  only,  support  it  has  is  derived  from  a  previous  recon- 
struction of  the  sacred  text  in  accordance  with  the  theory 
it  is  called  on  to  uphold. 

02)  That  the  fatlier  of  Z.  was  not  Ahitub,  a  priest  of 
the  line  of  Eleazar,  is  arrived  at  by  declaring  the  text  in 

2  8  8  17    to    have    been    intentionally   corrupted,    pre- 
sumably by  a  late  K,  the  original  form  of  the  verse  hav- 
ing been,  according  to  criticism  (Wellhausen,  TBS,  176  f): 
"  Abiathar  the  son  of  Ahinielech,  the  son  of  Ahitub,  and 
Z.  were  priests."     But  if  this  was  the  original  form  of  the 
words  it  is  not  easy  to  explain  why  they  should  have  been 
so  completely  turned  round  as  to  say  the  opposite,  viz. 
that   Ahimelech    was    the    son    of    Abiathar,    and    that 
Ahitub  was  the  father  of  Z.,  when  in  reality  he  was  the 
father  of  Ahimelech.     If,  as  Cornill  admits  (Kinl,  ll(i), 
tin;  Chronicler  worked   "with  good,   old  historical  ma- 
terial," it  is  not  credible  that  hu  made  it  say  the  opposite 
of  what  it  meant. 

(:5)  If  Z.  was  not  originally  a  priest,  but  only  a  military 
adventurer,  why  should  David  have  made  him  a  priest  a't 
all?  Wellhausen  says  ((IT,  20)  that  when  David  came 
to  the  throne  he  "attached  importance  to  having  as 
priests  the  heirs  of  the  old  family  who  had  served  the 
Ark  at  Shiloh."  J5nt  if  so,  he  had  Abiathar  of  the  line 
of  Ithamar  at  hand,  and  did  not  need  to  go  to  the  army  for 
a  priest.  If,  however,  it  be  urged  that  in  making  Z.  a 
priest  he  gave  him  an  inferior  rank  to  Abiathar,  and  sent 
him  to  Gibeon  when;  the  tabernacle  was,  why  should 
both  sources  so  persistently  place;  Z.  before  Abiathar  ? 

(4)  If  Z.  was  originally  a  soldier  not  connected  with 
the  priesthood,  and  only  became  a  priest  after  David 
came  to  Jerus,  why  should  the  earlier  source  have  omitted 
to  record  this,  when  no  reason  existed,  so  far  as  one  can 
discover,  why  it  should  have  been  left  out?     And  why 
should  the  priestly  disposed  Chronicler  have;  incorporated 
this  in  his  narrative  when  all  his  inclinations  should  have 
moved  him  to  omit  it,  more  esn.  when  he  was  intending 
to  invent  (according  to  the  critical  theory)  for  the  young 
warrior  an  Aaronite  descent? 

(5)  That  the  prediction  of  the  fall  of  Eli's  house  (1   S 
2  27-:i(>)  was  inserted  by  a  late  writer  to  justify  its  super- 
session by  the  line  of  Z.  has  no  foundation  except  the  pre- 
supposition  that   prediction   is   impossible,    which    fair- 
minded  criticism  cannot  admit.     The  occurrence  of  the 
word    "anointed,"    it    is    contended,    presupposes    the 
monarchy.     This,  however,  it  only  predicts;   and  at  the 
most,  as  Driver  sees  (Intro,  KM),  cannot  prove  the  fic- 
titious character  of  the  prophecy,  but  merely  that  it  has 
been  "recast  by  the  narrator  and  colored  by  the  associa- 
tions with  which  he  himself  is  iamiliar";   and  even  this 
is  entirely  hypothetical. 

((>)  K/ekiel's  reference  to  Z.'s  descendants  as  the  only 
legitimate  priests  in  the  vision-temple  does  not  prove 
that  Z.  himself  was  a  soldier  who  climbed  up  into  the 
priesthood.  Even  if  the  critical  interpretation  of  the 
vision-temple  were  correct,  it  in  no  way  affects  the  per- 


sonality of  Z.,  and  (  ertainly  does  not  disprove  his  original 
connection  with  the  priesthood  or  his  descent  from 
Eleazar. 

T.  WHITELAV 

ZAHAM,  za'harn  (DHT  ,  ziihuni,  meaning  uncer- 
tain; IAX  A,Za\d.|j.,  Zaldni,  B,  'PooXXdp,,  Ji/ntnlliini)  : 
A  son  of  King  Rehobojim  (2  Cli  11  I'.M. 

ZAIN,  zil'in.     See  ZAVI.V. 

ZAIR,  za'ir  (T1"^  ,  ca'7/v  Ztio&p,  Z<-iur)  :  When 
he  invaded  Edorn,  we  are  told  that  .Joram  passed 
over  to  Zair  and  all  his  chariots  with  him  (2  K"  8 
21).  In  the  parallel  passage  (2  Ch  21  <)J,  "with 
his  captains"  ("P"}tp  D7  ,  'Zw  Narayir)  takes  1  lie  place 
of  "to  Zair"  (n"1"'"2  ,  fu'7/v7//j,  prohahly  a  copyist's 
corruption.  The  place  has  not  hooti  identified. 
SOUK;  have  thought  that  Alt  .  Seir  is  intended  ;  ot  hers 
that  it  means  the  town  of  Zoar.  Condor  suggested 
e:-Zuwcir(tli,  S.IO.  of  the  Dead  Sea.  If  Zoar  lay  in 
this  direction,  it,  is  the  way  hy  which  an  invading 
army  might  enter  Edom. 

ZALAPH,  za'laf  (?;£  ,  f  «/«/;//,  "caper-plant"): 
Father  of  Haium,  one  of  the  repairers  of  the  wall 
(Ni:h  3  30). 


ZALMON,  zal'mon  OpVEp?  ,  c<i!i/idn;  2eX|io>v, 
Rdinoii,  opos  'Ep|j.tov,  o/vw  Ertnun;  AV  Salmon  IPs 
68  14]): 

(1)  From  the  slopes  of  Mt.  Zalinon,  Ahimelech 
and  his  followers  gathered  the  wood  with  which  they 
burned  down  "the  stronghold  of  the  house  of  El- 
berith,"  which  may  have  been  the  citadel  of  Shechem 
(Jgs  9  4(5).     The  mountain  therefore  was  not  far 
from  the  city;    but  no  name  resembling  this  has 
yet  been   recovered   in   Mt.   Ephraim.     It   is   just 
possible  that  in  the  modern  Arab,  name  of  Alt  .  Ebal, 
es-Sulemlyeh,  there  may  be  an  echo  of  Zalinon.     It 
is  precisely  to  this  mountain,  esp.  to  the  western 
slopes,  that  one  would  expect  Abiinelech  and   his 
people  to  go  for  the  purpose  in  view.     The  name 
occurs  again  in  Ps  68  14,  a  passage  of  admitted 
difficulty.     Snow  in  Pal  is  mainly  associated  with 
Mt.  Hermon,  where  it  may  be  seen  nearly  all  the 
year  round;  hence  doubtless  the  Gr  reading  "Mt. 
Hermon"  in  Jgs.     But  snow  is  well  known  among 
the  uplands  in  winter;  and  the  Psalmist  may  simply 
have  meant  that  the  kings  were  scattered  like  snow- 
flakes  in  the  wind  on  Mt.  Zalmon.     We  need  not 
therefore  look  to  Bashan  or  elsewhere  for  the  moun- 
tain.    The;  locality  is  fixed  hy  the  narrative;  in  Jgs. 

(2)  One    of    David's    heroes    (2  S  23  2S).     See 
ILAI.  W.  EWING 

ZALMONAH,  zal-mf/na  (TEttbs  ,  gnlmonSOi, 
"gloomy"):  A  desert  camp  of  the  Israelites,  the 
first  after  Mt.  Hor  (Xu  33  41.42).  The  name 
"suggests  some  gloomy  valley  leading  up  to  the 
Edomite  plateau."  Sec  WAXDEKJN<;S  OF  LSUAEL. 

ZALMUNNAH,  zal-mun'a.     See  ZKKAH  AND  ZAL- 

MUXNA. 

ZAMBIS,  zam'bis:   AV  =  RV  ZAMBHI  (q.v.). 


ZAMBRI,  zam'bii  (B,  Za^peC,  Zambni,  A,  Zap.- 
Ppfe,  Znnihrits;  AV  Zambis,  from  Aldine  ZafilBis, 
Zambis)  : 

(1)  One  of  the  sons  of  Ezora  who  put  away  their 
foreign  wives  (1  Esd  9  34)  =  "Amariah"  of  Ezr  10 
42. 

(2)  AV  =  RV  "Zimri"  of  1  Mace  2  26. 

ZAMOTH,  za'moth,  zii'mdth  (Ze^oO,  Zamoth): 
The  head  of  a  family,  some  members  of  which 
married  foreign  wives  (1  Esd  9  2S)  =  "Zattu"  of 


Zamzummim 
Zebah,  Zalmunna 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Ezr  10  27;     called    "Zathui"    in     1    Esd  5   12    and 
"Zathoes"   (AV  "Zathoe")  in  8  32. 

ZAMZUMMIM,  zam-zum'im  (ZTGrET  ,  za»i- 
zuniinlni):  A  race  of  giants  who  inhabited  the  region 
E.  of  the  Jordan  afterward  occupied  by  the  Ammon- 
ites who  displaced  them.  They  are  identified  with 
the  Rephaim  (Dt  2  20).  They  may  be  the  same 
as  the  Zuzim  mentioned  in  connection  with  the 
Kephaim  in  den  14  5.  See  KKCHALM. 

ZANOAH,  za-ml'a  (TT"r  ,  zanonh;  B,  Tavii, 
T(inu,  A,  Zavto,  Zaitd): 

(1)  A  town  in  the  Judaean  Shephelah,  grouped 
with    Eshtaol,    Zorah    and    Ashnah    (Josh   15  34). 
The  Jews  reoccupied  the  ])lace  after  the  exile  (Neh 
11  30).     Here   it    is  named   between   Jarmuth   and 
Adullam.     The   inhabitants   assisted    in    rebuilding 
the  walls  of  Jerus,  repairing  the  valley  gate  (Neh  3 
13).     Onoin   places  it   at    Zanna,   in  the  district   of 
Eleutheropolis  on  the  Jerus  road.      It  is  represented 
by  the  modern  Z<n<n*a,  about    10  miles  N.  of  lii'it 
Jibrln   (Eleutheropolis). 

(2)  (B,    7ja.Kava(i/j.,    Zaktniacini  ,    A,    7,a.vu>,   ZanfTi: 
A  place  in   the   mountains    (Josh  15   ">()_)   of  which 
Jekuthiel  was  Hie  "father"  or  founder  (1   Ch  4   IS). 
It  may  be  identified  with  Zcmltu,  a  ruined  site  on  a 
hill  about  12  miles  S.  of  Hebron.  AV.  EWIXG 

ZAPHENATH-PANEAH,  zaf-e'nath-pa-ne'a, 
ZAPHNATH-PAANEAH,  zaf'nath-pa-a-ne'a  (n:?2 
HI"?  ,  nlj/l/''nntfi  ]ml&ne°h;  Egyp  Zoph-cnt-pa-ankh; 
LXX  1),  ^ovGoii^avTix.)  Psonthomphanfah,  ''the 
one  who  furnishes  the  nourishment  of  life,"  i.e. 
the  chief  steward  of  the  realm):  The  name  given 
Joseph  by  the  Egyp  king  by  whom  lie  was  promoted, 
probably  the  Ilyksos  king  Aphophis  (den  41  4/5)  . 
See  JOSEPH. 

ZAPHON,  za'foa  0;E2  ,  faphon;  B,  2a4)dv, 
Saphdn,  A,  2a<j>cuv,  Saphdn)',  A  city  on  the  E.  of 
the  Jordan  in  the  territory  of  dad  (Josh  13  27;. 
It,  is  named  again  in  Jgs  12  1  as  t  he  place  where  1  he 
elders  of  dilead  gathered  to  meet  with  Jephthah 
(fdphdnah  should  be  trd  "to  Zaphon,"  not  "north- 
ward"). It  must,  have  lain  well  to  the  N.  of  dad. 
According  to  the  Talrn  Amathus  represented 
Zaphon  (Ncubauer,  Geog.  (lit  Talni,  249).  Here  sat, 
one  of  the  Synedria  created  by  dabinius  (Ant, 
Xl\',  v,  4).  It  was  a  position  of  great  strength 
(HJ  ,  I,  iv,  2).  Onom  places  it  21  Rom  miles  S.  of 
Pella.  This  is  the  modern  Tett'Am&teh,  on  the 
south  bank  of  \\'ndtj  cr-Itujcib,  lo  miles  S.  of  Pella, 
and  nearly  f>  miles  X.  of  the  Jabbok.  Buhl  (UAP, 
259)  objects  to  the  identification  that  Tell  'Amateh 
corresponds  to  the  Asophon  of  Jos  (Ant,  XIII, 
xii,  5).  But  this  objection  does  not  seem  well 
founded.  W.  Ewix<; 

ZARA,  za'ra  (Zapd,  Zard):  AV  (Mt  1  3)  =  dr 
form  of  ZERAH  (q.v.). 

ZARACES,  zar'a-sez:    AV  =  RV  ZAHAKKS  (q.v.). 
ZARAH,  za'ra.     See  ZEUAH,  (1). 


ZARAIAS,  za-ra'yas,  za-rl'as  (Zapcuas, 

(1)  OIK;  of  the  leaders  in  the  Return  along  with 
Zerubbabel     (1  Esd  5  S)  =  "Seraiah"     of    Ezr  2  2 
and  "Azariah"  of  Neh  7  7  =  AV  ZACHAHIAS  (q.v.). 

(2)  An  ancestor  of  Ezra  in   1  Esd  8  2  (omitted 
in    B    and    Swete)  =  "Zerahiah"    of     Ezr  7  4    and 
apparently  =  "Arna"  of  2  Esd  1  2. 

(3)  The  fat  her  of  Eliaonias,  the  leader  of  the  sons 
of    Phaath     Moab     under    Ezra      (1  Esd  8  31)  = 
"Zerahiah"  of  Ezr  8  4. 


(4)   One  of  "the  sons  of  Saphatias"  who  went  up 
with  Ezra  (1    Esd  8  34)  =  "Zebadiah"  of  Kzr  8  8. 


5,  zar'a-kez  (A  and  Fritzsche,  Zapa.Kt]s, 
and     Swete,     Zdpios,    Zririox;     Vulg 


^  ZARAKES, 

Zn run  Inn;  AV  Zaraces) :  Occurs  in  the  difficult 
passage,  1  Esd  1  38,  as  the  equivalent  of  Jehoahaz 
(2  K  23  34)  and  Joahaz  (2  Ch  36  4),  the  brother 
of  Eliakim  (Jehoiakim  or  JOAKIM  [q.v.]).  Accord- 
ing to  1  Esd  1  3S,  Joakim  apparently  apprehended 
his  brother,  Zarakes,  and  brought  him  up  out  of 
Egypt,  whither  he  must  have  been  previously  taken 
by  Necoh,  whereas  2  K  and  2  Ch  only  state  that 
Necoh  took  Joahaz  (Zarakes)  to  Egypt. 

ZARDEUS,  zar-de'us  (A,  ZapScuas,  Zm-daias, 
B,  Swete  and  Fritzsche,  ZepaXias,  Zcraluis;  AV 
Sardeus):  One  of  the  sons  of  Zamoth  who  had 
married  "strange  wives"  (1  Esd  9  2S)  =  "Aziza" 
of  Ezr  10  27. 

ZAREAH,  za'rC-a,  za-re'a  (ny"l:2 ,  gor*ah):  AV 
in  Neh  11  29  for  ZORAH  (q.v.). 

ZAREATHITES,  za-re'a-thlts.     See  ZORATHITES. 

ZARED,  za'red  ("PT ,  zarctlh  [in  pause]).  See 
ZERED. 


ZAREPHATH,  zar'6-fath  (HE^S  ,  carrphath; 
2dp67TTa,  ti(ir<-/>t<t):  The  Sidonian  town  in  which 
Elijah  was  entertained  by  a  widow  after  he  left  the 
brook  Cherith  (1  K  17  9ff).  Obadiah  refers  to  it  as 
a  Can.  (probably  meaning  Phoen)  town  (ver  20).  It 
apj>ears  in  the  (!r  form  Sarepta  in  Lk  4  26  (AV), 
and  is  said  to  be  in  the  land  of  Sidon.  Jos  (Ant, 
VIII,  xiii,  2)  says  it  was  not  "far  from  Sidon  and 
Tyre,  for  it  lay  between  them."  Onom  (s.v. 
"Sarefta")  places  it  on  the  public,  road,  i.e.  the 
road  along  the  seashore.  It  can  be  no  other  than 
the  modern  Har<ifc>t<l,  about  13  miles  N.  of  Tyre, 
on  the  spur  of  the  mountain  which  divides  the  plain 
of  Tyre  from  that  of  Sidon. 

The  site  of  the  ancient  town  is  marked  by  the  ruins  on 
the  shore  to  the  S.  of  t  he  modern  village,  about  .S  miles  to 
the  S.  of  Sidon,  which  extend  along  the  shore  for  a  mile 
or  more.  They  are  in  two  distinct  groups,  one  on  a  head- 
land to  the  VV.  of  a  fountain  called  '  Ain  el-Knntara, 
which  is  not  far  from  the  shore.  Here  was  the  ancient 
harbor  which  still  alfords  .shelter  for  small  craft.  Tin: 
other  group  of  ruins  is  to  the  S.,  and  consists  of  columns, 
sarcophagi  and  marble  slabs,  indicating  a  city  of  con- 
siderable importance.  Till'  modern  village  of  Snrafend 
'\vas  built  some  time  after  the  1-Jth  cent.,  since  at  the 
time  of  the  Crusades  the  town  was  still  on  the  shore. 

It  is  conjectured  that  the  Syrophoenician  woman 
mentioned  in  Lk  4  26  was  an  inhabitant  of  Z.,  and 
it  is  possible  that  Our  Lord  visited  the  place  in  His 
journey  to  the  region  as  narrated  in  Mk  7  24-31, 
for  it  is  said  that  he  "came  through  Sidon  unto  the 
sea  of  Galilee." 

The  place  has  been  identified  by  some  with  Mis- 
rephoth-maim  of  Josh  11  8  and  13  6,  but  the  latter 
passage  would  indicate  that  Misrephoth-maim  was 
at  the  limit  of  the  territory  of  the  Sidonians,  which 
Z.  was  not  in  the  days  of  Joshua.  See  MISKEPHOTH- 
MAIM;  SIDON. 

Originally  Sidonian,  the  town  passed  to  the 
Tyrians  after  the  invasion  of  Shalmaneser  IV,  722 
BC.  It  fell  to  Sennacherib  701  BC.  The  Wely, 
or  shrine  bearing  the  name  of  el-Khudr,  the  saint  in 
whom  St.  George  is  blended  with  Elijah,  stands  near 
the  shore.  Probably  here  the  Crusaders  erected  a 
chapel  on  what  they  believed  to  be  the  site  of  the 
widow's  house.  \V.  EWINO 


ZARETAN,  zar'0-tan  Cj 
3  16  for  ZAKETHAN  (q.v.). 


S  ,  farthan):  AV  Josh 


31.33 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


ZARETHAN,  zar'f-than  Ovl?  ,  fdr-llmn):  A 
city,  according  to  Josh  3  10  (omitted,  ho\\cvor  by 
LXX)  nour  Adam,  which  is  probably  to  be  identified 
with  Tell  Ddmieh  ut  tlio  mouth  of  the  Jabbok.  In 
1  K  4  12  it  is  mentioned  in  connection  with  Beth- 
shean  and  said  to  be  "beneath  Jezreel."  In  1  K 
7  4(5,  this  is  said  to  be  at  "the  ford  of  Adamah," 
according  to  the  reading  of  some,  but  according  to 
the  Massoretic  text,  "in  the  clay  ground  between 
Succoth  and  Zarethan,"  where  the  bronze  castings 
for  the  temple  were  made  by  Solomon's  artificers. 
In  2  Ch  4  17,  the  name  appears  as  Zeredah,  which 
in  1  K  11  20  is  said  to  have  been  the  birthplace  of 
Jeroboam,  son  of  Nebat.  In  Jgs  7  22,  Ciiboon  is 
said  to  have  pursued  the  Midianitcs  "as  far  as  Beth- 
shit  tah  toward  Zererah,"  which  is  probably  a  mis- 
reading for  Zeredah,  arising  from  the  similarity  of 
the  Heb  letters  daldh  and  resh.  The  place  has  not 
been  positively  identified.  From  the  suggestion 
that  the  name  means  "the  great  [or  lofty]  rock," 
it  has  without  sufficient  reason  been  supposed  that 
it  designates  the  conspicuous  peak  of  K  urn  Surtabhch, 
which  projects  from  the  mountains  of  Eph'raim  into 
the  valley  of  the  Jordan  opposite  the  mouth  of  the 
Jabbok.  GEORGE  FREDERICK  WIUGHT 

ZARETH-SHAHAR,  za'reth-sha'har 

"iHian  ,  cercth  ha-shuhar) .    See  ZEHETH-SHAHAK 

ZARHITES,  zar'hlts.     See  ZERAH,  (1),  (-1). 

ZARTANAH,  zar-ta'na,  zar'ta-na  ( , 
far"thanah):  AV  in  1  K  4  12  for  "Zarethan'." 
The  form  is  Zarethan  with  He  locale. 

ZARTHAN,  ziir'than  (}ms ,  Qar'than}:  AV  in 
1  K  7  40  for  ZAHETHAN  (q.v.). 

ZATHOES,  zath'6-ez,  za-tho'ez  (ZaOofc,  Zathoes; 
AV  Zathoe):  Name  of  a  family,  part  of  which  re- 
turned with  Ezra  (1  Esd  8  32),  not  found  in  the 
Heb  of  Ezr  8  5;  probably  identical  with  "Zattu" 
of  Ezr  2  8;  Neh  7  13,  many  of  which  family  went 
up  with  Zerubbabel,  and  so  called  also  "Zathui" 
(1  Esd  6  12).  See  'ZATTT. 

ZATHUI,  za-thu'T  (ZaeOovC,  Zathlhoui,  LXX  B, 
Zarov,  Zatori):  In  1  Esd  6  12  =  "Zattu"  in  Ezr  2 
8;  Neh  10  14.  In  1  Esd  9  28  the  same  name  is 
"Zamoth." 

ZATTHU,  zat'thu:  In  Neh  10  14;  RV  ZVTTU 
(q.v.). 

ZATTU,  zat'u  (NTOT ,  zattu',  meaning  unknown): 
Head  of  a  large  family  that  returned  with  Zerub- 
babel to  Jems  from  Babylon  (Ezr  2  8;  10  27;  Neh 
7  13;  10  14  [15]).  According  to  Ezr  10  27,  some 
of  his  sons  had  married  foreign  wives,  and  Zattu  is 
named  in  Neh  10  14  as  one  of  the  chiefs  who  signed 
Nehemiah's  covenant.  LXX  A  also  adds  the  name 
before  that  of  Shecaniah  in  Ezr  8  5,  and  so  we 
should  read,  "And  of  the  sons  of  Zattu,  Shecaniah 
....";  so  1  Esd  8  32  has  Zatfo??s,  Zathoes.  AV 
has  "Zatthu"  in  Neh  10  14. 

ZAVAN,  za'van.     See  ZAAVAN. 

ZAYIN,  za'yin  (T):  The  7th  letter  of  the  Heb 
alphabet;  transliterated  in  this  Encyclopaedia  as 
z.  It  came  also  to  be  used  for  the  number  7.  For 
name,  etc,  see  ALPHABET. 

ZAZA,  za'za  (ST7 ,  ztiza,  meaning  unknown; 
LXX  B,  'Otdn,  Ozdm,  A,'Oi;a£a,  Ozazd):  A  Jerahme- 
elite  (1  Ch  2  33). 


Zamzummim 
Zebah,  Zalmunna 


ZEALOT,  zel'ut,  ZEALOTS,  zel'uts:  Simon,  one  of 
Hie  apostles,  was  called  "the  Zealot"  (/^X^r^s, 
ZeldttSjfrom  fr\6w,  zclod  "to  rival,"  "emulate,"  "be 
jealous,"  "admire,"  "desire  greatly,"  Lk  6  15;  Acts 
1  13,  AV  "Zelotes").  In  Mt  10  4  and  Mk  3  18  he 
is  called  "the  Cananaean"  (so  RV  correctly;  not 
'the  Canaanito,"  as  AV  says,  following  inferior 
MSS),  6  Kavavaws,  ho  Kaitanaiox.  From  the  time  of 
the  Maccabees  there;  existed  among  the  Jews  a  party 
who  professed  great  zeal  for  the  observance  of  the 
"law."  According  to  Jos  (11J ',  IV,  iii,  9;  v,  1;  VII, 
viii,  1)  they  resorted  to  violence  and  assassination  in 
their  hatred  of  the  foreigner,  being  at  many  points 
similar  to  the  Chinese  Boxers.  It  is  not  improbable 
that  the  "Assassins"  (see  ASSASSINS)  of  Acts  21  38 
were  identical,  or  at  least  closely  associated,  with 
this  body  of  "Zealots,"  to  which  we  must  conclude 
that  Simon  had  belonged  before  he  became  one  of 
the  Twelve.  See,  further,  SI.MOX  THK  ZEALOT. 

WILLIAM  ARTHUR  HEIDEL 

ZEBADIAH,  zeb-a-di'a  ([1]  IPTpT  ,  z'bhadhyahu, 
2]  «T^~3T  ,  z'bhadhyah,  "Jeh  has  bestowed";  the  form 
[1]  is  the  Hob  name  in  [1],  [„},  [}>},  [2],  below;  the 
form  [2]  in  the  rest.  Some  MSS  have  "Zechariah" 
in  [1],  [a],  [b],  [3];  cfZAUDi;  ZABDIEL): 

(1)  Levites:  (a)  a  Korahite  doorkeeper  of  David's 
reign  (1  Ch  26  2);    (b)  one  of  the  Levites  sent  by 
King  Jehoshaphat  to  teach  the  Torah  in  Judah  (2 
Ch  17  8). 

(2)  Son  of  Ishmael  (2  Ch  19  11);    "ruler  of  the 
house  of  Judah   in   all   the   king's   [Jehoshaphat's] 
matters,"  i.e.  judge  in  civil  cases,  the  "controversies" 
of  ver  8. 

(3)  Benjamites,   perhaps  descended   from   Ehud 
(see  Curtis,  Chron.,  158  ff):    (a)  In  1  Ch  8  15;    (b) 
in  ver  17,  where  the  name  may  be  a  dittography 
from  ver  15. 

(4)  A  Benjamite  recruit   of   David  at  Ziklag  (1 
Ch^L2  7  [Heb  ver  8]). 

(5)  One  of  David's  army  officers,  son  and  succes- 
sor of  Asahel  (1   Ch  27  7). 

(0)  One  of  those  who  returned  from  Rain-Ion  to 
Jerus  with  Ezra  (Ezr  8  8)  =  "Zaraias"  of  l'  Esd  8 
34. 

(7)  One  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives 
(Ezr  10  20)  =  "Zabdeus"  of  1  Esd  9  21.  ' 

DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 

ZEBAH,  ze'ba  (HIT,  zcbhah,  "victim"),  AND 
ZALMUNNA,  zal-mun'a  (*?$?,  falmunna\  "pro- 
tection refused"):  Two  Midianite  kings  or  chiefs 
whom  Gideon  slew  (Jgs  8  4-21;  Ps  83  11  [Heb 
ver  12]).  The  name  zcbhah  (Ze?/3ee,  Zebce)  is  very 
much  like  that  of  ze'ebh  (ZjJ3,  Ztb,  "Zeeb"  in  LXX) 
Moore  (Jgs,  220)  says  that  falmunna1-  is  probably 
"a  genuine  Midianite  name";  Noldoke  conjectured 
that  it  contains  that  of  a  deity  (Cbs ,  g[u]lni),  and 
a  compound  form  aittJ'abi ,  flmshzbh,  is  found  in 
an  inscription  from  Teima,  a  place  E.  of  the  Midi- 
anite capital  (CI8,  II,  cxiiif). 

The  narrative  of  Jgs  8  4-21  is  not  to  he  connected 
with  that  of  8  1-3.  Budde  (Kurzer  Hand-Comm  -  AT 
XXII)  would  join  8  4  to  6  :M :  Moore  (ICC)  following 
Budde  s  earlier  work  (ISOOj  would  connect  it  with  a  part 
of  7  226,  describing  tlie  din-ction  of  the  flight,  while 
Nowack  (Hand-Komm.)  regards  the  battle  of  8  11  as 
the  same  as  that  of  7  1 1  if;  lie  then  takes  the  latter 
part  of  8  11  to  refer  to  the  place-  of  the  camp  at  night 
1  here  are  many  difficulties  in  forming  a  natural  connec- 
tion for  the  verses.  It  may  be  noted  that  in  8  l.sf 
Gideon  is  not  "the  least  in  my  father's  house,"  as  he  rep- 
resents himself  to  be  in  6  15. 

The  whole  section  tolls  of  a  daring  raid  made  by 
Gideon  upon  the  Midianites.  Some  of  his  own  kin 
had  been  slain  by  Midianite  hordes  at  Ophrah  (8 
18  f),  and,  stirred  by  this,  C!  id  eon  went  in  hot  pur- 
suit with  300  men  (ver  4j.  He  requested  provisions 
for  his  men  from  the  people  of  Succoth  and  I'enuel, 
but  was  refused  this.  He  then  went  on  and  caught 


Zebaim 
Zechariah 


TIIK  IXTKIJXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3134 


the  Midianites  unawares  :it  Karkor  (ver  10)  and 
ruptured  their  two  chiefs.  He  I  lien  had  his  revenge 
on  the  t\vo  towns,  and  returned  probably  to  his 
homo  with  the  two  notable  prisoners.  These  ho 
determined  to  slay  to  avenge  the  death  of  his  own 
kinsmen,  and  called  upon  his  eldest  son  to  perform 
this  solemn  public  duly  that  he  owed  to  the  dead. 
His  son,  apparently  only  a  boy,  hesitated,  and  he 
did  the  deed  himself.  \V.  K.  Smith  (Lectures  on 
the  l\il.  of  the  ,S'<///.,2d  od,  417,  n.)  compares  with 
this  call  to  ('.idoon's  son  the  choice  of  young  men 
or  lads  as  sacrilicers  in  Kx  24  ~>,  and  says  that  the 
Saracens  also  charged  lads  with  the  execution  of 
their  rapt  IVCS. 

The  narrative  reminds  one  of  David's  romantic 
life  in  1  S  25,  27,  30.  It,  is  throughout  a  character- 
istic picture  of  the  life  of  the  curly  Hebrews  in  Pal, 
for  whom  it.,  was  a  sacred  duty  to  avenge  Hie  dead. 
It  affords  a  splendid  illustration  of  what  is  meant 
by  the  spirit  of  .leh  coming  upon,  or  rather  ''clothing 
itself  with"  (RVm)  (iideon  (6  3h;  of  also  Saul's 
call  to  action  (1  S  11  1  LI),  and  also  Jgs  19  f. 

DAVID  FRANCIS  KOHKKTS 

ZEBAIM,  zo-bfi'im.    See  POCHKUKTH-HA//KHAIM. 

ZEBEDEE,  zob'e-de  0  v?T  ,  zilM'i,  "the  gift 
of  God";  ZepcScuos,  Zcbcdnloit'):  The  father  of  the 
apostles  James  and  John  (Mk  1  I'D  and  :i  fisher- 
man on  the  Sea  of  (  lalilee  (  Mk  1  20),  the  husband 
of  Salome  (Ml  27  Ati;  cf  Mk  16  l>.  See  JAM  KS, 
Sox  OF  ZKISKDKK;  SALOME. 

ZEBIDAH,  /.n-bl'da,  /ob'i-da  (n^lT  ,  i.e.  ~~*-T  , 
z'hhwlhnli,  K'To,  whence  AV  "Zebudah,"  whereas 
IV'tlilbh  is  FTPyt  ,  zebhldhak;  ihc  lyre  means  "be- 
stowed" an<!  'is  the  fern,  of  Zabud):  Dauglitor  of 
Pedaialiof  Rumah,  and  mother  of  King  Jehoiakim 
of  Judah  (2  K  23  3<>).  LXX  B  has,  however,  'IcXXa 
OvydTtjp  'Eoe/X  €K  Kpot'/xd,  I  (/lit  Hi  nt/iiler  K<I<U  <k 
Kroinna,  A,  Kie\oa</>  0.  Et'eootXd  e/c  'I'i'.ud,  Eielddph 
(It.  Eieddild  tic  Ilhnmn.  In  2  Ch  36  f)  MT  lacks 
these  names,  but  LXX  B  has  Zex<«va  0.  Sripclov  en 
'Pa^d,  Z<  chord  th.  \rn-ioin-k  Rlunnd;  here  the  name 
of  the  king's  mot  her=  Hel)  ~T-I  >  z''kliurdli,  duo  to 
a  confusion  of  D  with  H  (It  and  l>)  and  "1  with  *1 
(r  and  d),  and  thus  we  find  support  for  the  K"re 
z''!>hwlhnh  (••Zebudah,"  in  2  K  23  30  AV).  Luc. 
lias  confused  the  names  here  with  those  of  2  K  24 
IS,  and  has  as  there,  "Aniital,  the  daughter  of  Jere- 
miah of  Libnah."  DAVID  FUANCIS  ROBKKTS. 

ZEBINA,  zS-bi'na  (S:"QT  ,  zrU,ina,  "bought"): 
One  of  those  who  had  married  foreign  wives  (Kzr 
10  43);  the  name  is  not  in  1  F.sd  9  3"),  and  is 
omitted  by  LXX  A  in  Ezr. 

ZEBOIIM,  ze-boi'im  (""ll^  ,  fhltdyhn;  LXX 
uniformly  2epio[e]i|i,  Kehd[e]un;  AV  Zeboim)  :  One 
of  the  cities  in  the  Vale  of  Siddim,  destroyed  with 
Sodom  and  Gomorrah.  It  is  always  mentioned 
next  to  Admah  ((Ji-n  10  11);  14  2.S;  Dt  29  23; 
IIos  11  8).  It  is  not  to  be  confounded  with  Zeboim 
mentioned  in  1  S  13  IS  and  Xeh  11  34.  The  site 
has  not  been  positively  identified,  but  must  bo  de- 
termined by  the  general  questions  connected  with 
the  Vale  of  Siddim.  See  SIDDIM,  VALE  OF. 


ZEBOIM,  ze-bo'lm  ([1]  nnrilS  ,  fbho'lm;  2«P<o€£jA, 
Scbdnm  [Xeh  11  34);  [2]  C^SH  ^  ,  <J<'  ha-g'- 
bho'lm;  Fed  TTJV  SapttCv,  did  ten  Samein  [1  S  13 
18]): 

(1)  A  Benjamite  town  mentioned  as  between 
HADID  (q.v.)  and  NEHALLAT  (q.v.),  and  therefore  in 
the  maritime  plain  near  Lydda;  the  site  is  lost  (Neh 
11  34).  (2)  The  Valley  of  Zeboim,  "the  valley  of 


hyenas,"  one  of  throe  companies  of  the  Philistines 
left  their  cam])  at  Michmash  and  "turned  the  way 
of  the  border  that  looketh  down  upon  the  valley  of 
Zeboim  toward  the  wilderness"  (1  S  13  18). 
There  are  several  valleys  with  names  derived  from 
the  hyena,  .so  common  in  those  parts.  There  is  a 
small  branch  valley  called  Shakkcd  dalSa,  "ravine 
of  the  hyenas,"  N.  of  the  Wddy  kdt  (Grove),  a 
Wddij  aim  dtilSd,  "valley  of  the  father  of  hyenas," 
which  joins  the  Wddy  kdt  from  the  S.  (Marti),  and 
a  large  and  well-known  Wwly  dafSd,  "valley  of  hy- 
enas," which  runs  parallel  with  the  Wddij  kdt,  some 
3  miles  farther  S.,  and  ends  at  the  Dead  Sea.  The 
first  of  these,  which  apparently  leads  to  Muhhmas 
itself,  seems  the  most  probable.  See  Conder'a 
llanilhooh,  241.  E.  ^'.  G.  MASTERMAN 

ZEBUDAH,  zn-bu'da.     See  ZEBIDAII. 

ZEBUL,  ze'bid  (bit ,  z°l>hul,  perhaps  "exalted"; 
ZepovX,  Zehoui):  In  Jgs  9  2(1  ff.  He  is  called  in 
ver  'M  K(tr  hn-'lr,  "the  ruler  of  the  city,"  a  phrase  trd 
"the  governor  of  the  city"  in  1  K  22  26  =  2  Ch 
18  2r>;  2  K  23  8;  2  Ch  34  8;  he  was  "com- 
mandant of  the  town"  of  Shoehorn.  In  vor  28  he 
is  referred  to  as  the  pakldh,  "officer,"  or,  more  cor- 
rectly, "deputy"  of  Abimoloch.  This  verse  is  a 
little  difficult,  but  if  we  read  "served"  for  "serve 
ye,"  it  becomes  fairly  clear  in  meaning.  \Yith 
'Moore  (Jf/x,  2f>">  if)  we  may  translate  it  thus:  "\\  ho 
is  Abimelech?  and  who  is  Shechem,  that  we  should 
servo  him  [i.e.  Abimelech]?  Did  not  the  son  of 
Jerubbaal  and  Zebul  his  deputy  [formerly]  serve  the 
people  of  Hamor  [the  father  of  Shechem]?  \\hy 
then  should  we  servo  him  [Abimelech]?"  This  ^is 
also  the  way  Buddo  (Kurzcr  Hand-Comm.  z.  AT, 
7"))  takes  the  verso.  And  further  in  ver  29  for  "and 
he  said"  many  read  with  LXX  "then  would  I 
say." 

The  position  of  Zebul  is  here  that  of  a  deputy  to 
Ahimoloeh,  who  lived  in  Arumah  (ver  41).  When 
Gaal  came  to  Shoehorn,  a  newcomer  with  a  band  of 
men,  he  sei/ed  the  opportunity  at  a  vintage  feast 
to  attack  Abimolech  and  express  a  desire  to  lead  a 
revolt  against  him  (vs  20-29).  Zebul  heard  these 
words  and  reported  the  matter  to  his  master,  ad- 
vising him  to  make  a  sudden  rush  upon  the  city 
(vs  30-33).  This  Abimoloeh  does,  and  Gaal,  on 
noticing  the  troops,  tells  Zebul,  who  turns  upon  him 
and  bids  him  make  good  his  bragging  words.  Gaal 
is  thus  forced  to  go  out  and  light  Abimelech,  and  is 
defeated  (vs  34-40). 

If  this  bo  the  correct  interpretation  of  tho  narrative 
so  far  it  is  fuirly  simple  and  clear.  Some,  however, 
maintain  that  the' words  of  dial  about  Zebul  in  ver  2S 
are  meant  as  an  insult  to  the  governor  of  the  city;  this 
is  the  view  of  \Vellhausen  (Compos.,  :i")3  f.  n.)  and 
Xowack  (Hunilkomm.;  cf  also  his  Archdoloyie,  I,  H04, 
:«)S  for  the  meaning  of  ,sar).  Zebul  is,  according  to  t  hern, 
head  of  the  Shechemite  community,  and  Wellhausen 
and  Kittel  (IH*t  of  Ilch,  II,  <Sf))  believe  him  to  have  had 
something  to  do  with  the  revolt  of  9  2:5-2.).  For  the 
latter  view  there  is  no  proof;  possibly  Zebul  was  the  head 
of  the  community  of  Shechem,  but  as  he  was  a  subject  of 
Abimelech,  who  was  the,  king  or  prince  of  Shechem, 
there  could  not  be  much  .sting  in  calling  him  the  "  deputy  " 
of  his  master. 

The  questions  that  arise  from  vs  41  ff  need  only  bo 
referred  to  here.  Many  critics  have  seen  in  9  22-45 
more  than  one  source.  Moore  groups  the  verses  thus: 
(1)  vs  22-23.25.42  It  as  due  to  K,  with  ver  24  from 
UN:-  (2)  vs  20-41  due  to  J.  It  is  doubtful  if  the  division 
is  as  clear  as  this.  There  seem  however  to  bo  parallels: 
(1)  The  plans  of  Abimelech  in  vs  34-40  are  very  similar 
to  those  in  42  ff.  (2)  Ver  416  seems  to  give  in  short 
what  we  find  related  in  vs  34-40.  (3)  LXX  in  9  31 
has  suggested  to  many  that  wo  should  read  there,  and 
he  sent  messengers  unto  Abimelech  in  .1  ru  inah , ' '  instead  of 
reading  "craftily."  We  would  thus  have  a  parallel  to 
ver  4 la.  It  may  be  suggested  therefore  that  if  the 
account  bo  double  (and  it  is  strange  that  Abimelech 
should  again  attack  the  city  by  almost  the  same  methods 
as  before,  when  the  revolters  had  been  already  got  rid 
of),  the  narratives  would  be  in  this  order: 


3135 


Till]  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zebaim 
Zechariah 


Introductory.  9  L'.'i  L'.">  ;  then  vs  2(1  !>'.».  :«)  common  to 
both,  and  so  possibly  part  of  vs  3  1  and  3L'  f.  Then  wo 
have  two  accounts  of  the  event  :  (a)  vs  31  (part).  34-40: 
(t>)  vs  41-45,  followed  by  vs  4(1  If. 

DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 

ZEBULONITE,  zeb'fl-lon-lt.     Sec  /KHI-LI:NITKH. 

ZEBULUN,  /eb'n-lun  (V^3T  ,  z'MMn,  al.so 
written  "j^^QT  and  "p5IlT  ;  the  first  form  occurs 
only  in  Jgs  1  30;  the  other  two  are  frequent,  and 
are  used  interchangeably;  ZapovXcov,  Zuboidon)  :  In 
Gen  30  20  Leah  exclaims,  "(iod  hath  endowed  me 
with  a  flood  dowry,"  which  suggests  a  derivation 
of  Zebulun  from  zabhudh,  "to  bestow,"  the  "I  (d) 
being  replaced  by  5  (I).  Again  she  says,  "Now  will 
my  husband  dwell  with  me  [or  "honor  me"]:  and 
she  called  his  name  Zebulun";  the  derivation  being 
from  zabhal,  "to  exalt"  or  "honor"  (OIIL,  s.v.). 

Zebulun  was  the  10th  son  of  Jacob,  the  Oth  borne 
to  him  by  Leah  in  Paddan-aram.  Nothing  is 
known  of  this  patriarch's  life,  save  in  so  far  as  it 
coincides  with  that  of  his  brethren.  Tg  Pseudojon 
says  that  he  first  of  the  five  brethren  was  presented 
to  Pharaoh  by  Joseph,  when  Israel  and  his  house 
arrived  in  Egypt  (Gen  47  2).  Three  sons,  Sered, 
Elon  and  Jahleel,  were  born  to  him  in  Canaan,  and 
these  became  the  ancestors  of  the  three  main  divi- 
sions of  the  tribe  (Gen  46  14). 

The  position  of  the  tribe  of  Zebulun  in  the  wilder- 
ness was  with  the  standard  of  the  camp  of  Judah  on 
the  east  side  of  the  tabernacle  (Nu  2  7).  This 
camp  moved  foremost  on  the  march  (ver  9).  At 
the  first  census  Zebulun  numbered  57,400  men  of 
war  (1  30),  the  prince  of  the  tribe  being  Eliab,  son 
of  Helon  (ver  9).  At  the  second  census  the  men  of 
war  numbered  00,500  (Nu  26  27);  see,  however, 
NUMBERS.  Among  the  spies  Zebulun  was  repre- 
sented by  Gaddiel  son  of  Sodi  (13  10).  To  assist 
in  the  division  of  the  land  Elizaphan  son  of  Parnach 
was  chosen  (34  25).  At  Shechem  Zebulun,  the 
descendants  of  Leah's  youngest  son,  stood  along 
with  Reuben,  whose  disgrace  carried  with  it  that  of 
his  tribe,  and  the  descendants  of  the  sons  of  the 
handmaids,  over  against  the  other  six,  who  traced 
their  descent  to  Rachel  and  Leah  (Dt  27  13).  At 
the  second  division  of  territory  the  lot  of  Zebulun 
came  up  third,  and  assigned  to  him  a  beautifully 
diversified  stretch  of  country  in  the  N.  The  area  of 
his  possession  is  in  general  clear  enough,  but  it  is 
impossible  to  define  the  boundaries  exactly  (Josh 
19  10-10).  It  "marched"  with  Naphtali  on  the 
10.  and  S.E.,  and  with  Asher  on  the  W.  and  N.W. 
The  line  ran  northward  from  Alt.  Tabor,  keeping 
on  the  heights  W.  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  on  to 
Kcfr  *Anan  (Hannathon).  It  turned  westward 
along  the  base  of  the  mountain,  and  reached  the 
border  of  Asher,  probably  by  the  vale  of  *Abilin. 
It  then  proceeded  southward  to  the  Kishon  oppo- 
site Tdl  Kniinun  (Jokneam).  As  the  plain  belonged 
to  Issachar,  the  south  border  would  skirt  its  north- 
ern edge,  terminating  again  at  Tabor,  probably 
near  Deburiyeh  (Daberath),  which  belonged  to  Is- 
sachar (21  28). 

The  details  given  are  confusing.  It  is  to  be  observed 
that  this  does  not  bring  Zebulun  into  touch  with  tho 
sea,  and  so  is  in  apparent  contradiction  with  Gen  49  13 
and  also  with  Jos  (Ant,  V,  i,  22;  BJ,  III,  iii,  1),  who  says 
the  lot  of  Zebulun  included  the  land  which  "lay  as  far 
as  the  Lake  of  Gennesareth,  and  that  which  belonged 
to  Carmel  and  the  sea."  Perhaps,  however,  the  limits 
changed  from  time  to  time.  So  far  as  the  words  in  (ion 
49  13  are  concerned,  Delitzsch  thinks  they  do  not  neces- 
sarily imply  actual  contact  with  the  sea;  but  only  that 
his  position  should  enable  him  to  profit  by  maritime 


trade.  This  it  certainly  did;  the;  great  caravan  route, 
via  marix,  passing  through  his  territory.  Thus  ho  could 
"suck  the  treasures  of  the  sea."  See  also  TABOK, 
MOUNT.  Within  the  boundaries  thus  roughly  indicated 
were  all  varieties  of  mountain  and  plain,  rough  upland 
country,  shady  wood  and  fruitful  valley.  What  is  said 
of  the  territory  of  Naphtali  applies  generally  to  this. 


Olive  groves  and  vineyards  are  plentiful  <;.>od  harvests 
are  gatherrid  on  the  sunny  slopes,  and  on  the  rich  levels 
of  the  Plain  of  Asochis  (,:l-U<i/tauf). 

Elon  the  Zebulunite  was  the  only  leader  given 
by  the  tribe  to  Israel  of  whom  we  have  any  record 
(Jgs  12  llf);  but  the  people  were  brave  and  skilful 
in  war,  furnishing,  according  t  o  ( he  Song  of  Deborah, 
"[them]  that  handle  the  marshal's  staff"  (6  14)! 
The  tribe  sent  50,000  single-hearted  warriors,  capa- 
ble ^and  well  equipped,  to  David  at  Hebron  (1  Ch 
12  33).  From  their  rich  land  they  brought  stores 
of  provisions  (ver  40).  Over  Zebulun  in  David's 
time  was  Ishmaiah,  son  of  Obadiah  (27  19).  Al- 
though they  had  fallen  away,  He/ekiah  proved  that 
many  of  them  were  capable;  of  warm  response  to  the 
appeal  of  religious  duty  and  privilege  (2  Ch  30 
10  f.18  ff).  They  are  not  named,  but  it  is  probable 
that  Zebulun  suffered  along  with  Naphtali  in  the 
invasion  of  Tiglath-pileser  (2  K  15  29).  In  later 
days  the  men  from  these  breezy  uplands  lent 
strength  and  enterprise  to  the  Jewish  armies.  Jota- 
pata  (Tdl  Jifdt),  the  scene  of  Josephus'  heroic  de- 
fence, was  in  Zebulun.  So  was  Sepphoris  (Seffuri- 
yeh),  which  was  for  a  time  the  capital  of  Galilee 
(Ant,  XVIII,  ii,  1;  7*7,  VII;  III,  ii,  4).  Nazareth, 
the  home  of  our  Saviour's  boyhood,  is  sheltered 
among  its  lower  hills.  W.  EWINQ 

ZEBULUNITES,  zeb'u-lun-its  C^iTH ,  ha- 
z'bhulom;  Za(3ov\c&v,  Zaboulon):  Members  of  the 
tribe  of  Zebulun  (Nu  26  27;  Jgs  12  llf). 

ZECHARIAH,  zek-a-ri'a  (IPVnDT,  g'kharyahu, 
or  rnnDT,  z'kharyah;  LNX  Zaxap£a[s],  Zacha- 

rln[s]) :  A  very  common  name  in  the  ( )T.  The  form, 
esp.  the  longer  form,  of  the  name  would  suggest  for 
its  meaning,  "Jeh  remembers"  or  "Jell  is  renowned," 
and  the  name  was  doubtless  understood  in  this  sense 
in  later  times.  But  the  analogies  with  ZACCUR, 
ZECHER,  ZICHKI  (q.v.),  etc,  make  some  original 
ethnic  derivation  probable. 

(1)  King    of    Israel,    son    of   Jeroboam    II    (AV 
"Zachariah").     See  next  article. 

(2)  The  grandfather  of  King  Hezekiah,  through 
Hczekiah's  mother  Abi  (2  K  18  2,  AV  "Zachariah" 
!i  2  Ch  29  1). 

(3)  A  contemporary  of  Isaiah,  taken  by  Isaiah 
as  a  trustworthy  witness  in  the  matter  of 'the  sign 
Maher-shalal-hash-baz    (Isa  8   1).     As   his   father's 
name  was  Jeberechiah,  some  support  seems  to   be 
offered  to  the  theories  of   those  who  would   make 
him  the  author  of  certain  portions  of  Zee.     But  see 
ZECHARIAH,  BOOK  OF. 

(4)  A  Reubenite  of  the  time  of  Israel's  captivitv 
(1  Ch  5  7). 

(5)  A  Benjamite,  living  in  Gideon   (1   Ch  9  37; 
called  "Zecher"  in  8  31).     He  was  the  brother  of 
Kish  and  hence  the  uncle  of  Saul. 

(0)  A  Manassite  of  Gilead,  at  the  time  of  David 
(1  Ch  27  21). 

(7)  The  third  son  of  Jehoshaphat   (2  Ch  21  2). 
He  was  slain  by  Jehoram  (ver  4) . 

(8)  A     "prince"     whom     Jehoshaphat     sent     to 
"teach"  in  the  cities  of  Judah   (2  Ch  17  7).     As 
this  "teaching"  was  in  connection  with  the  estab- 
lishing of  the  Law,  Zechariah  was  primarily  a  judge. 

(9)  A  prophet  who  was   influential  in 'the  early 
days  of  Uzziah  (2  Ch  26  5).     lie  is  characterized 
as  ha-mebh  In  bire'oth  (beyir'ath[?])  ha-'Slo/n/u,  which 
phrase  is  usually  understood  to  mean  that   he  had 
instructed  (RVm)  the  king  in  the  fear  of  God.     As 
long  as  he  lived  the  king  profited  by  his  instruction 
and  advice. 

The  following  eight  are  all  Levites: 

(10)  A  doorkeeper  at  the  time  of  David,  who  was 
made  a  singer  "of  the  second  degree"  (1  Ch  15   18; 


Zechariah 
Zechariah,  Book  of 


TIIK   IXTKHXATIOXAL  STAXDAHD   BIBI.K  KXCYCL*  >PAKDl  A 


313C. 


the  text  is  confused).  He  was  a  player  on  :i  "psal- 
tery" (ver  20)  ami  took  part  in  the  thanksgiving 
when  the  Ark  was  brought  to  .lerus  (16  5). 

(11)  A  son  of  Isshiah  (1   Ch  24  25). 

(12)  A  son  of  Aleshelemiah,  a  "porter  of  the  door 
of  the  lent  of  meeting"  al  the  time  of  David  (.1    Ch 
9  21;    26  2.14).      In  26    1-1  called  "u  discreet  coun- 
sellor." 

(13)  V  son  of  Ilosah,  a  Merante,  :dso  at   David  s 
time  (1  Ch  26   11). 

(14)  The  father  of  the  prophet,  JAIIAZIKL  (q.v.) 
(2  Ch  20  14). 

(15)  A  son  of  Asaph,  who  assisted  in  the  purifi- 
cation of  the  Temple  at  the  time  of  He/ekiah  (2  Ch 
29  13). 

(1C))  A  Kohathite,  who  assisted  in  the  repair  of 
the  Temple  at  the  time  of  .Josiah  (2  Ch  34  12). 

(17)  A  son  of  Jonathan,  an  Asaphite,  one  of  the 
musicians  at  ihe  dedication  of  the  wall  at  the  time 
of  Xehemiah  (Xeh  12  35). 

The  following  are  all  priests: 

(IS)  A  trumpeter  at  the  time  of  David  (1  Ch 
15  24). 

(l'.)j  A  son  of  Jehoiada,  at  the  time  of  Joash.  lie 
rebuked  the.  people  publicly  for  their  apostasy,  and 
was  stoned  by  them,  .loash  consenting  to  their 
act  (2  Ch  24  20  22).  As  2  Ch  is  the  last  book  in 
the  Heb  OT,  Zechariah  was  regarded  as  the  la>t  of 
the  OT  martyrs,  and  hence  is  coupled  with  Abel 
(the  first  martyr)  in  Alt  23  35  Lk  11  51.  The 
words  "son  of  Harachiah"  in  Alt  are  due  to  confusing 
this  Zechariah  with  the  prophet.  See  ZACHAKIAH. 

(20)  One  of  the  "rulers  of  the  house  of  (5od"  at 
the  time  of  Josiah  (2  Ch  35  S). 

(21)  A  son  of  Pashhur,  212  of  whose  descendants 
as  "chiefs  of  fathers'  houses"  dwelt   in  .lerus  at   the 
time  of  Xehemiah  (Xeh  11  13). 

(22)  A  trumpeter  at    the  dedication  of  the  wall 
at  the  time  of  Nehemiah  (Xeh  12  41). 

(23)  The  prophet    (K/r  51;    611;     Xeh  12   Hi; 
Zee  1  1.7;     7  l.S;     1  Ksd  6  1;     7  3).     See  Zi:m- 

AH1AH,     BOOK    OF. 

The  following  are  all  returned  exiles  or  are  men- 
tioned only  as  ancestors  of  such: 

(24)  A  son  of  Parosh  (K/r  8  3;    1    K-d   8  30  has 
"Zacharias"  here  and  elsewhere). 

(25)  A  son  of  Bebai  (K/r  8  11;   1   Ksd  8  37). 

(26)  Ono  of  the  "chief  men"  dispatched  by  K/ra 
to  bring  priests  from  Casiphia  (Ezr  8   Ifi;    1   Ksd  8 
44).      Doubtless  the  same  as  (21)  or  (25),  above. 

(27)  One  of  the  persons  \\lio  stood  by    K/ra  at 
the  reading  of  the  Law   (Xeh  8  4;    1   Ksd  9  44); 
almost  certainly  identical  with  (2ti). 

(2S)  A  son  of  Klam,  who  had  taken  a  foreign 
wife  (K/r  10  2fi;  1  Ksd  9  27). 

(21 »  A  son  of  Amariah,  a  Judahite,  the  ancestor 
of  certain  persons  dwelling  in  Jems  (Xeh  11  4). 

(30)  A  son  of  "the  Shilouite,"  the  ancestor  of 
certain  persons  dwelling  in  Jerus  (Xeh  11  5). 

BritTo.v  SCOTT  K ASTON" 

ZECHARIAH  (rP^T ,  z'kharyah,  *rP-=7 , 
z'klutryaliu,  "Jeh  has  rememl)ered"  [2  K  14  211; 
15  8-12];  Zaxapias,  Z<tch<iri<iK;  AV  Zachariah): 
Son  of  Jeroboam  11,  and  1  1th  king  of  Israel.  He 
was  the  4th  of  the  line  of  Jehu,  and  reigned  six 
months.  Zechariah  succeeded  to  a  splendid  _  in- 
heritance, as  he  was  king,  not  only  of  the  ten  tribes 
of  Israel,  but  of  the  Syrian  state  of  Damascus,  which 
his  father  had  subdued.  In  the  unusual  wealth  and 
dignity  of  this  position  lay  his  peril.  Also  then- 
were  two  dark  shadows  falling  across  his  path, 
though  both  probably  unseen  by  him.  One  was 
the  promise  to  Jehu,  as  the  reward  of  his  destroying 
the  worship  of  Baal  in  Israel,  that  his  sons  should 
sit  on  the  throne  of  Israel  to  the  4th  generation  (2  K 
10  30;  15  12).  Zechariah  was  Jehu's  great-great- 


grandson.  The  other  was  the  word  of  Amos  to  the 
priest  of  Bethel:  "Then  said  the  Lord  ....  1  will 
rise  against  the  house  of  Jeroboam  with  the  sword" 
(Am  7  8.9) . 

The  only  brief  notice  of  Zechariah  personal  to 
himself  is  that  he  gave  his  support  to  the  worship 
of  the  calves,  since  Jeroboam  1  established  the 
religion  of  the  state.  He  hardly  had  time,  however, 
to  identify  himself  with  this  or  any  institution  before 
he  was  publicly  a>sassinated  by  Shallum,  the  son^of 
Jabesh  (he  "smote  him  before  the  people").  The 
prophet  llosea  was  then  alive,  and  there  is  probably 
allusion  to  this  crime  when,  addressing  Ephraim,  he 
says:  "Where  is  thy  king,  that  he  may  save  thee 
in'all  thy  cities?  .  .  .  .  I  have  given  thee  a  king  in 
mine  anger,  and  have  taken  him  away  in  my  wrath" 
(Hos  13  10.11;  cf  1  4). 

There  has  long  been  difficulty  with  the  chronology 
of  this  period.  Archbishop  I'ssher  assumed  an 
interregnum  of  11  years  between  the  death  ot_ Jero- 
boam II  and  Zechariah's  accession.  This  is  ac- 
cepted as  probable  by  a  recent  writer,  who  sees  "at 
least  10  years  of  incessant  conflict  between  rival 
claimants  to  the  throne  on  Jeroboam's  death"  (see 
art.  "Zechariah"  in  IIDH,  IV).  It  seems  more 
likely  that  there  is  error  in  certain  of  the  synchro- 
nisms. The  year  of  Zechariah's  accession  was  prob- 
ably 750  BC  (some  put  it  later),  and  the  6  months  of 
his  reign,  with  that  given  to  Shallum,  may  be  in- 
cluded in  the  10  years  of  Menahem,  who  followed 
them  (2  K  15  17).  Sec;  CIIKO\OLO<;Y  OF  THK  OT. 
W.  SHAW  CALDECOTT 

ZECHARIAH,  BOOK  OF: 

1.   The  Prophet 

12.   His  Times  and  Mission 

;i.   Contents  and  Analysis 

-t.  The  Critical  Question  Involved 

f).  The  I'nity  of  tin-  Book 

(i.   Conclusion 


Few  books  of  the  OT  are  as  difficult  of  interpre- 
tation as  the  Book  of  Zechariah;  no  other  book  is 
as  Messianic.  Jewish  expositors  like  Abarbanel 
and  .jarchi,  and  Chri>t  ian  expositors  such  as  Jerome, 
are  forced  to  concede  that  they  have  failed  "to 
find  their  hands"  in  the  exposition  of  it,  and  that 
h  their  investigations  they  passed  from  one  laby- 
rinth to  another,  and  from  one  cloud  into  another, 
until  they  lost  themselves  in  trying  to  discover  the 
prophet's  meaning.  The  scope  of  Zechariah's 
vision  and  the  profundity  of  his  thought  are  almost 
without  a  parallel.  In  the  present,  writer's  judg- 
ment, his  book  is  the  most  Messianic,  the  most  truly 
apocalyptic  and  eschatological,  of  all  the  writings 
of  the'OT. 

Zechariah   was    the   son    of    Berechiah,    and    the 

grandson   of    Iddo     (.Zee  1  1.7).  _   The    same   Iddo 

seems    to    be    mentioned    among    the 

1.  The  priests  who  returned  from  exile  under 
Prophet          Zerubbabel    and    Joshua    in    the   year 

53C,  BC  (Xeh  12  4;  K/r  2  2).  If  so, 
Zechariah  was  a  priest  as  well  as  a  prophet,  and  pre- 
sumably a  young  man  when  he  began  to  preach. 
Tradition,  on  the  contrary,  declares  that  he  was 
well  advanced  in  years.  He  apparently  survived 
Haggai,  his  contemporary  (K/r  5  1;  6  14).  He 
was  a  poet  as  well  as  a  prophet.  Nothing  is  known 
of  his  end.  The  Tg  says  he  died  a  martyr. 

The  earliest  date  in  his  book  is  the  2d  year  (520 
BC)  of  the  reign  of  Darius  Hystaspis,  and  the  latest, 

the  4th  year  of  the  same  king's  reign 

2.  His  (1  1.7;    7  1).     Though  these  are  the 
Times  and     only  dates  given  in  his  writings,  it  is 
Mission          possible  of  course  that  he  may  have 

continued  active  for  several  additional 
years.  Otherwise,  he  preached  barely  two  years. 
The  conditions  under  which  he  labored  were  similar 


3137 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zechariah 
Zechariah,  Book  of 


to  those;  in  Ilaggai's  times.  Indeed,  Tlaggai  had 
begun  to  preach  just  two  months  before  Zechariah 
was  called.  At  that  time  there  were  upheavals  and 
commotions  in  different  parts  of  the  Pers  empire, 
esp.  in  the  N.E.  Jeremiah's  prophecies  regarding 
the  domination  of  Babylon  for  70  years  had  been 
fulfilled  (Jer  15  11;  29  10).  The  returned  cap- 
tives were  becoming  disheartened  and  depressed 
because  Jeh  had  not  made  it  possible  to  restore  Zion 
and  rebuild  the  temple.  The  foundations  of  the 
latter  had  been  already  laid,  but  as  yet.  there  was  no 
superstructure  (Ezr  3  8-10;  Zee  1  16).  The  altar 
of  burnt  offering  was  set  up  upon  its  old  site,  but 
as  yet  there  were  no  priests  worthy  to  officiate  in 
the  ritual  of  sacrifice  (E/r  3  2.3;  Zee  3  3).  The 
people  had  fallen  into  apathy,  and  needed  to  be 
aroused  to  their  opportunity.  Haggai  had  given 
them  real  initiative,  for  within  24  days  after  he 
began  to  preach  the  people  began  to  \\ork  (flag  1 
1.15).  .It  was  left  for  Zechariah  to  bring  the  task 
of  temple-building  to  completion.  This  Zechariah 
did  ^successfully;  this,  indeed,  was  his  primary 
mission  and  work. 

The  prophecies  of  Zechariah  naturally  fall  into 
two  parts,  chs  1-8  and  9-14,  both  of  which  begin 
with    the    present    and    look    forward 
3.  Contents  into_1he  distant  future.     (1)  Chs  1-8, 
and  consisting   of  three   distinct  messages 

Analysis  delivered  on  three  different  occasions: 
(a)  1  1-0,  an  introduction,  delivered 
in  the  8th  month  of  t  he  2d  year  of  Darius  Hystaspis 
(520  BC).  These  words,  having  been  spoken  three 
months  before  the  prophecies  which  follow,  are  ob- 
viously a  general  introduction.  They  are  decidedly 
spiritual  and  strike  the  keynote  of  the  entire  col- 
lection. In  them  the  prophet  issues  one  of  the 
strongest  and  most  intensely  spiritual  calls  to 
repentance  to  be  found  in  the  OT.  (/>)  1  7 — £  15, 
a  series  of  eight  night  visions,  followed  by  a  corona- 
tion scene,  all  delivered  on  the  24th  day  of  the  llth 
month  of  the  same  2d  year  of  Darius  (520  BC),  or 
exactly  two  months  after  the  corner  stone  of  the 
temple  had  been  laid  (Hag  2  IS;  Zee  1  7).  These 
visions  were  intended  to  encourage  the  people  to 
rebuild  God's  house.  They  are  eight  in  number, 
and  teach  severally  the  following  lessons; 

(a)  The  vision  of  the  horses  (1  7-17),  teaching 
God's  special  care  for  and  interest  in  his  people: 
"My  house  shall  be  built"  (ver  10).  (J8)  The  four 
horns  and  four  smiths  (1  18-21),  teaching  that, 
Israel's  foes  have  finally  been  destroyed;  in  fact 
that  they  have  destroyed  themselves.  There  is  no 
longer,  therefore,  any  opposition  to  building  God's 
house.  (7)  The  man  with  a  measuring  line  (ch  2), 
teaching  that  God  will  re-people,  protect  and  dwell 
in  Jerus  as  soon  as  the;  sacred  edifice  has  been  built . 
The  city  itself  will  expand  till  it  becomes  a  great 
metropolis  without  walls;  Jeh  will  be  a  wall  of  fire 
round  about  it.  (5)  Joshua,  the  high  priest,  clad 
in  filthy  garments,  and  bearing  the  sins  both  of  him- 
self and  the  people  (ch  3);  but  cleansed,  continued 
and  made  typical  of  the  Messiah-Branch  to  come, 
(e)  The  candelabrum  and  the  two  olive  trees  (ch  4), 
teaching  that  the  visible  must,  give  place  to  the 
spiritual,  and  that,  through  "the  two  sons  of  oil," 
Zerubbabel  the  layman,  and  Joshua  the  priest  (ver 
14),  the  light  of  God's  church  will  continue  to  burn 
with  ever-flaming  brightness.  For  it  is  "not  by 
might"  but  by  Jeh's  Spirit,  i.e.  by  Divine  life  and 
animation,  by  Divine  vigor  and  vivacity,  by  Di- 
vine disposition  and  courage,  by  Divine  executive 
ability  and  technical  skill,  that  God's  house  shall 
be  built  and  supplied  with  spiritual  life  (ver  0). 
({")  The  flying  roll  (5  1-4),  teaching  that  when  the 
temple  is  built  and  God's  law  is  taught  the  land  shall 
be  purified  from  outward  wickedness.  (77)  The 
Ephah  (5  5-11);  wickedness  personified  is  borne 


away  back  to  the  land  of  Sliinar,  teaching  that  when 
the  temple  is  rebuilt  wickedness  shall  be  actually 
removed  from  the  land.  (0)  The  four  chariots 
(6  US),  teaching  (hat  God's  protecting  providence 
will  be  over  Jfis  sanctuary,  and  that  His  people, 
purified  from  sin,  shall  rest  secure  in  Him.  These 
eight  visions  are  followed  by  a  coronation  scene, 
in  which  Joshua  the  high  priest  is  crowned  and  made 
typical  of  the  Messiah-Priest-King,  whose  name  is 
Branch  (6  9  15).  (c)  Chs  7,  8,  Zechariah's  answer 
to  the  Bethel  deputation  concerning  fasting;  de- 
livered on  the  4th  day  of  the  9th  month  of  the  4th 
year  of  Darius  (518  BC).  The  Jews  had  been 
accustomed  to  fast  on  the  anniversaries  of  the 
following  four  great  outstanding  events  in  the  his- 
tory of  their  capital:  (a)  when  Nebuchadne/zar 
took_ Jerus,  in  the  4th  month  (Jer  52  0);  (/3)  when 
the  Temple  was  burned  in  the  5th  month  (Jer  52 
12);  (7)  when  Gedaliah  was  murdered  in  the  7th 
month  (Jer  41  2);  and  (5)  when  the  siege  of  Jerus 
was  begun  in  the  10th  month  (2  K  25  1). 

_  There  are  four  sections  to  the  prophet's  answer 
divided  by  the  slightly  varying  formula,  "The  word 
of  Jeh  came  unto  me"  (7  4.8;  8  1.  IS),  and  teaching: 
(a)  Easting  affects  only  yourselves;  God  requires 
j  obedience  (7  4-7).  (>>)  Look  at  the  lesson  from 
your  fathers;  they  forsook  justice  and  compassion 
and  God  punished  them  (7  8-14).  (c)  Jeh  is  now 
waiting  to  return  to  Jerus  to  save  His  people  in 
truth  and  holiness.  In  the  future,  instead  of  a 
curse  God  will  send  blessing,  instead  of  evil,  good 
(8  1-17).  (d)  In  fact,  your  fasts  shall  be  changed 
into  festivals,  and  many  nations  shall  in  that  day 
seek  Jeh  of  hosts  in  Jerus  (8  18-23). 

(2)  Chs  9-14,  consisting  of  two  oracles,  without 
dates;  (a)  chs  9-11,  an  oracle  of  promise  to  the  new 
theocracy.  _  This  section  contains  promises  of  a 
land  in  which  to  dwell,  a  return  from  exile,  victory 
over  a  hostile  world-power,  temporal  blessings  and 
national  strength,  closing  with  a  parable  of  judg- 
ment brought  on  by  Israel's  rejection  of  Jeh  as  their 
shepherd;  thus  Judah  and  Ephraim  restored, 
united  and  made  victorious  over  their  enemies,  are 
promised  a  land  and  a  king  (ch  9);  Israel  shall  be 
saved  and  strengthened  (ch  10);  Israel  shall  be 
punished  for  rejecting  the  shepherding  care  of  Jeh 
(ch  11);  (b)  chs  12-14,  an  oracle  describing  the 
victories  of  the  new  theocracy,  and  the  coming  day 
of  Jeli.  This  section  is  strongly  eschatological, 
presenting  three  distinct  apocalyptic  pictures:  thus, 
how  Jerus  shall  be  besieged  by  her  enemies,  but 
saved  by  Jeh  (ch  12);  how  a  remnant  of  Israel 
purified  and  refined  shall  be  saved  (ch  13);  closing 
with  a  grand  apocalyptic  vision  of  judgment  and 
redemption — the  nations  streaming  up  to  Jerus  to 
keep  the  joyous  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  and  every- 
thing in  that  day  becoming  holy  to  Jeh. 

There  are  two  opposing  schools  of  criticism  in 
regard  to  the  origin  of  chs  9-14;  one  holds  what  is 
known  as  the  preexilic  hypothesis, 
4.  Critical  according  to  which  chs  9-14  were 
Question  written  before  the  downfall  of  Jerus; 
Involved  more  specifically,  that  chs  9-11  and 
13  7-9  spring  from  the  8th  cent. 
BC,  having  been  composed  perhaps  by  Zechariah, 
the  son  of  Jeberechiah  mentioned  in  Isa  8  2; 
whereas  chs  12-14,  excepting  13  7-9,  were  com- 
posed by  some  unknown  contemporary  of  Jeremiah 
in  the  7th  cent.  BC.  On  the  other  hand,  there  are 
also  those  who  advocate  a  late  post-Zecharian  origin 
for  chs  9-14,  somewhere  about  the  3d  cent.  BC. 
The  latter  hypothesis,  is  today  the  more  popular. 
Over  against  these  the  traditional  view,  of  course,  is 
that  Zechariah,  near  the  close  of  the  Oth  cent., 
wrote  the  entire  book  ascribed  to  him.  Only  chs 
9-14  are  in  dispute.  No  one  doubts  the  genuine- 
ness of  chs  1-8. 


Zechariah.Bookof     Till-]  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


The  following  arc  (lie  main  arguments  of  those  \vlio 
advocate  a  prcexil'c  origin  for  these  oracles:  (1)  11  s. 
"  \iid  I  cut  olf  Hie  three  shepherds  in  one  month. 
These  "three  shepherds"  ;uv  identified  with  certain 
kin-'*  \vlio  reigned  but  a  short,  time  each  in  (lie  Northern 
Kingdom;  for  example,  /echariah.  Slialhnn  and  Mena- 
hem"(2  K  15  s  ll>.  But  the  difficulty  with  this  argu- 
ment is  that,  they  were  not  cut  olT  "in  one  month"; 


(2  K  23  '-'•>'.    ^  (' 


I5ut   sun''.v  tll(1  mournin 
been  remembered  for  a 


-•. 

of  Judah  for  Josiah  might,  have  been  remembered  for  a 
century  from  r.O'.t  BO  till  5is  BO.  (:•!)  14  5,  referring 
to  the  "earthquake"  in  the  days  of  I  zziah,  is  another 


passage  fastened  upon  to  prove  the  preexilic  origin  of 
these'  prophecies.  But  the  earthquake  which  is  here 
alluded  to  took  place  at  least  a  century  and  a  half  before 
the  date  assigned  for  the  composition  of  ch  14.  And 
snre-lv  if  an  earthquake  can  be  alluded  to  by  an  author 
150  ve-ars  after  it  occurs,  /echariah.  who  lived  less  than 
a'  century  later,  might  have  alluded  to  it  also.  (4)  A 
much  stronger  argument  in  favor  of  a  preexilie  origin  of 
these  prophecies  is  the  names  given  to  the  theocracy, 
eg  "Kphraim"  and  "Jerusalem"  (9  10),  "Judah"  and 
"Kphraim"  (9  13),  "house  of  Judah"  and  "house  of 
Joseph"  (10  0).  "Judah  and  Israel"  (11  14),  implying 
that  the  kingdoms  of  Israel  and  Judah  are;  still  standing. 
But  subsequent  to  the  captivity  the  Jews  ever  regarded 
themselves  as  representatives  of  the  12  tribes,  as  is  ob- 
vious from  their  offering  12  sacrifices  (Ezr  617;  8  35). 
More-over  old  names  such  as  "Israel"  and  "Judah" 
long  survived  (cf  Jer  31  27-31;  Ze-e  8  13).  (5)  14  10, 
which  defines  the  area  occupied  by  Judah  as  extending 
"from  Ge-ba  to  Rimmon,"  which  corresponds,  it  is 
alleged  with  the  conditions  which  prevailed  just  prior  to 
the.  captivity.  But  it  satisfies  equally  we'll  the  con- 
elitions  after  the  exile  in  Zechariah's  own  time-.  (0) 
V'ain  it  is  argueel  that  the  national  sins,  the-  prevailing 
sins,  'idolatry,  teraphim  and  false'  prophecy  (10  2; 
13  2-6),  are;'  the>se  of  preexilic  time's.  But  the  same 
sins"  persisted  in  the-  post-e-xilic  congregation  (Ne-h  6 
7  14-  Mai  2  11;  3  5),  and  there  is  no  special  emphasis 
laid  upon  the-m  he-re.  (7)  Finally,  it  is  argued  that  the 
e-ne-mies  of  lsrae-1  mentioned  in  chs  9  14  are  those-  e>f  pre-- 
e-xilie-  times,  Assyria  and  Kgypt  (10  10.11),  Syria,  Pheu-ni- 
cia  anel  Philistia  (9  1-7).  But  forms  of  expression  are 
slow  in  changing:  the  name  "Assyrians"  eureurs  in  Lam 
5  (I.  anel  "Assyria"  is  employed  instead  e>f  "Persia" 
in  k/;i-  6  22.  Jeremiah  prophesied  against  Damascus 
anel  Hamath  long  after  their  leiss  e>f  independence 
(49  23-27).  After  the'  e-xile-,  the  Philis  resisted  lsrae-1's 
return  (Neb,  4  7.S).  In  short  all  the-se-  nations  we-rei 
Israe-1's  he-re-elitary  foes,  and,  therefore,  judgments  pro- 
nenmce-el  against  the'in  we're;  always  in  plae-e.  Further- 
more, it  may  be-  saiel  in  gene-nil  that  there-  are-  reasons 
fe>r  thinking  that,  in  both  halves  e>f  the  Boejk  e>f  Ze-e-,  the; 
e-xile-  is  represented  as  an  e-vent  e>f  the-  past,  anel  that  the 
reste>ratiem  from  e-xile-  be>th  e>f  Kphraim  anel  Judah,  though 
incomple-te-,  has  alreaely  be-gun.  This  is  unquestionably 
true  e>f  chs  1-8  (1  I'-J;  2  0-12;  6  10;  7  5;  8  7.8).  The 
exile;  is  tre-ate-d  as  a  fact.  It  is  almost  equally  true-  e>f 
chs9-14(e-f9  S.ll;  10  0.8-10).  Moreover,  it  may  with 
jnstie-e-  be;  elaimeel  that  the  alle-ge-ei  authors  e>f  ehs  9-14 
elissoe-iate-  themselves  fmm  any  definitely  name-el  pe-rson 
e>r  any  spen-ifie:  e-vent  known  te>  be  pree'-xilie-.  (ioel  alone; 
is  described  as  Ruler  e>f  His  pe'e>ple.  The  only  king  men- 
tioned is  the-  Messiah-King  (9  0.10;  14  0).  The; 
"house-  e>f  Daviel"  mentioned  in  12  7-12;  13  1,  is  never 
de-scribed  as  in  possessiem  e>f  the;  threme-.  It  is  David's 
"house-,"  anel  not  any  earthly  ruler  in  it,  eif  which  the; 
pmphet  speaks.  Further,  there-  are-  passages,  inele-e-el, 
in  ehs  9-14  which,  if  pre-exilic  in  e>rigin,  wemlel  have-  ))e-e-n 
obscure  anel  even  misle-aeling  to  a  people  confronted  by  the 
catastrophes  e>f  722  and  580  BC.  No  specific  enemy  is 
allnele-el  to.  Xe>  ele-linite-  army  is  name-el  as  approaching. 
Instead  of  Assyria,  Javan  is  painted  as  the  e>pposing 
e-ne-my  e>f  the-  theocracy  (9  13),  anel  even  she  is  ne>t  yet 
raise-el  up  e>r  e've'ii  threatening.  On  the  other  hand,  in  chs 
12-14,  it  is  ne>t  the-  Chaldaeans  under  Nebuchadnezzar, 
but  "  all  natie)iis,"  who  are  described  as  ee>ming  up  against 
Jerus  (122.3;  142).  Moreover,  victory  and  not  defeat 
is  premiised  (9  8.14.10;  12  4.7.8).  The  preexilie:  proph- 
e-ts  Amos.  He>sea  anel  Jeremiah  he-lel  emt  ne>  such  hopes. 
The'se  e)rae-le-s,  heiweve-r,  promise-  e-ve-n  temporal  prosperity 
anel  abundance  (9  17;  10  1.8.12;  12  S;  14  2.14); 
and  they  exhort  the  p_eople  te)  re-joico  rather  than  te>  fear 
(9  0;  10  7);  while  in  14  10-19  all  natie>ns  are  repre- 
sent e-d  as  ge>ing  up  to  Jerus  to  kee-p  the  Feast  e>f  Tabe-r- 
nacle-s,  which  was  the  most  joyous  feast  e>f  the  Ileb  calen- 
dar. All  this  is  quite  the-  e>pposite  e)f  what  the  pre-exilic 
prophets  (who  are  known  to  have-  been  preexilic)  actually 
prophesie-d.  In  Zee  9-14>  there  is  sounded  forth  not  one 
clear  note  of  alarm  e_>r  warning;  judgment  rather  gives 
place  to  hope,  warning  to  encouragement,  threatening 
to  je>y  and  gladness,  all  of  which  is  most  inconsistent  with 
the  idea  that  these  chapters  are  of  preexilie  origin.  On 
the  other  hand,  they  are  perfe-ctly  consistent  with  the 
conditions  and  promises  of  post-exilic  times. 


The  other  hypothesis  remaining  to  be  discussed 
is  that  known  as  the  post-Zecharian.  This  may  be 
said  lo  represent  the  prevailing  critical  view  at  the 
present,  time.  But  it,  like,  the  preexilic  hypothesis, 
is  based  upon  ;i  too  literalistic  and  mechanical  view 
of  prophecy.  Those,  like  Stade,  Wellhausen, 
Kuenen,  Marti,  Kaut/sch,  Cornill,  Chcyne,  Driver, 
Kuipcr,  Echardt  and  Mitchell,  who  advocate  this 
view,  employ  the  same  critical  methods  as  those 
whose  views  we  have  just  discussed,  but  arrive  at 
diametrically  opposite  conclusions.  Indeed,  no 
two  critics  agree  as  to  the  historical  circumstances 
which  produced  these;  oracles.  Most  an;  of  the 
opinion,  however,  that  these  chapters  were  com- 
posed during  the  Cr  period,  i.e.  after  333  BC.  In 
examining  the  arguments  urged  by  the  representa- 
tives of  this  school  special  caution  is  needed  in  dis- 
tinguishing between  the  grounds  advanced  in  sup- 
port of  a  post-exilic  and  those  which  argue  a  post- 
Zecharian  date.  The  former  we  may  for  the  most 
part  accept,  as  Zechariah  was  himself  a  post-exilic 
prophet;  the  latter  we  must  first  examine.  In 
favor  of  a  very  late  or  (Irecian  origin  for  chs  9-14, 
the  chief  and  nil-important  passage,  and  the  one 
upon  which  more  emphasis  is  placed  than  upon  all 
others  together,  is  9  13,  ''For  I  have  bent  Judah  for 
me,  1  have  filled  the  bow  with  Ephraim;  and  I  will 
stir  tip  thy  sons,  ()  Zion,  against  thy  sons,  ()  Oreecc, 
and  will  make  thee  as  the  sword  of  a  mighty  man." 
Kuiper  in  summing  up  throws  the  whole  weight  of 
his  argument  in  favor  of  a  Cir  date  on  this  verse. 
Wellhausen  makes  it  decide  the  dale  of  these 
prophecies;  while  Stade  declares  t hat  t he  announce- 
ment of  the  "sons  of  Javan"  is  alone  sullicient  to 
prove  that  these  prophecies  are  after  333  BC.  Two 
thinii's  are  esp.  emphasized  by  critics  in  connection 
with  this  important  passage:  (1)  that  the  sons  of 
Javan  are  the  world-power  of  the  author's  day, 
viz.  the  Gr-Maccabean  world-power;  and  (2)  that 
they  are  the  enemies  of  Zion.  But  in  opposition 
to  these  claims  it  should  be  observed  (1)  that  the 
sons  of  Javan  are  but  one  of  several  world-powers 
within  the  range  of  the  prophet's  horizon  (9  1-7, 
Syria,  Phoenicia,  Philistia;  12  2  f;  14  2  f,  all 
nations;  and  10  10.11,  Assyria  and  Egypt);  and 
(2)  that  the  Creeks  under  Alexander  were  not  the 
enemies  of  Zion,  and  did  not  fight  against  the  Jews, 
but  against  the  Persians.  Assuming  the  genuine- 
ness of  the  passage  (9  13),  the  following  consid- 
erations point  to  the  Pcrs  period  as  its  probable 
historical  background:  (<i)  The  prophecy  would-be 
vague  and  meaningless  if  uttered  after  the  invasion 
of  Alexander.  (//)  The  passage  does  not  describe 
a  victory  for  the  sons  of  Javan,  but  rather  a  defeat, 
(r)  It  is  introduced  by  an  appeal  to  those  still  in 
exile  to  return,  which  would  have  been  quite  mean- 
ingless after  Alexander's  conquest.  ('/)  In  short, 
9  13-17,  as  a  whole,  is  not  a  picture  of  actual  war, 
but  rather  an  apocalyptic  vision  of  the  struggle;  of 
Israel  with  the  world-power  of  the  West,  hence  its 
indefiniteness  and  figurative  language. 

Furthermore,  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  in  Zechariah's 
own  day  the  (! reeks  were  rapidly  becoming  a  menacing 
world-power.  In  the  first  3  years  (521-519  BC)  of 
Darius'  reign,  12  different  revolts  took  place,  principally 
in  the  N.  and  K.  But,  in  51S,  Darius  was  compelled  to 
move  westward  at  the  head  of  his  royal  armies;  Darius' 
visit  to  Kgypt  in  517  BO  was  cut  short  by  the  disturb- 
ances of  the  Ci reeks  (cf  Wiedemann,  GYxr/i.,  230).  In  the 
year  510  BO  the  (i reeks  of  the  Hellespont  and  Bosporus, 
with  the  island  of  Samos,  were  made  to  submit  to  Pers 
rule.  The  next  year  (515  BC),  Darius  led  an  expedition 
against  the  Scythians  across  the  Danube,  the  failure  of 
which  encouraged  the  lonians  subsequently  to  revolt. 
In  500  BO  the  great  Ionian  revolt  actually  took  place. 
In  499  BO  Sardis.  the  most  important  stronghold  for 
Persia  in  Asia  Minor,  was  burned  by  the  Athenians.  In 
490  BC  Marathon  was  fought  and  Persia  was  conquered. 
In  4SO  BO  Xerxes  was  defeated  at  Salamis.  But  it  is 
unnecessary  to  sketch  t  he  rise  of  Javan  f  urt  her.  Enough 
has  been  related  to  show  that  already  in  the  reign  of 


3139 


THE  IXTKRXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA     Zechariah,  Book  of 


Darius  Hystaspis — in  whoso  reign  Zechariah  is  known  to 
have  lived  and  prophesied — the  sons  of  Greece  worts  a  ris- 
ing world-power,  and  a  threatening  world-power.  This  is 
all  really  that  is  required  by  the  passage.  The  sons  of 
.lavan  were  but  one  of  Israel's  enemies  in  Zechariah's 
day;  but  they  were  of  such  importance  that  victory  over 
them  carried  with  it  momentous  Messianic  interests. 
The  language  of  ch  9  is  vague,  and,  in  our  judgment,  too 
vague  and  too  indefinite  to  have  been,  uttered  after 
Marathon  (4<)0  IK"),  or  even  after  the  burning  of  Sardis 
(500  HC1);  for,  in  that  case,  the  author  would  have  been 
influenced  more  by  Greece  and  less  by  the  movements  and 
commotions  of  the  nations. 

Other  arguments  advanced  by  the  post-Zecharian 
school  are:  (1)  14  9,  "And  Jeh  shall  be  King  over 
all  the  earth:  in  that  day  shall  Jeh  be  one,  and 
his  name  one."  To  Sta.de  this  passage  contains  a 
polemic  against,  the  conditions  in  (!r  times  when  all 
gods  were  conceived  of  as  only  different  representa- 
tions of  one  and  the  same  god.  But,  on  the  con- 
trary, the  post -exilic  congregation  was  as  truly  a 
theocracy  in  (he  days  of  Darius  Hystaspis  as  in  the 
period  subsequent  to  Alexander's  conquest.  The 
Jewish  colony  of  1  he  Restoration  was  a  religious  sect , 
not  a  political  organization.  Zechariah  often  pic- 
tures (he  close  relation  of  Jeh  to  His  people  (2  10- 
13;  8  3.23),  and  (he  author  of  chs  9-14  describes 
.similar  conditions.  The  "yearning  for  a  fuller 
theocracy,"  which  Cheyne  (Bampton  Lectures,  120) 
discovers  in  Zee  9-14,  is  thoroughly  consistent  with 
the  yearning  of  a  struggling  congregation  in  a  land 
of  forsaken  idols  shortly,  after  the  return  from  exile. 
(2)  12  2b,  interpreted  to  mean  that  "Judah  also, 
forced  by  the  enemy,  shall  be  in  (he  siege  against 
Jerus,"  is  a  proof,  it  is  alleged,  that  the  children  of 
the  Diaspora  had  served  as  soldiers.  The  verse, 
accordingly,  is  said  to  be  a  description  of  the  hostile 
relations  which  actually  exist ed  between  Jerus  and 
Judah  in  the  beginning  of  the  Maccabean  struggle. 
The  validity  of  these  claims,  however,  is  vitiated 
by  a  correct  exegesis  of  the  passage  in  hand.  The 
(ext  is  apparently  corrupt.  In  order  to  obtain  a 
subject  for  "shall  be,"  the  preposition  before  Judah 
had  bet  t  er  be  stricken  out,  as  in  t  he  Tg.  The  passage 
then  trd  reads,  "And  Judah  also  shall  be  in  the  siege 
against  Jerus."  But  this  is  ambiguous.  It  may 
mean  (hat  Judah  shall  fight  against  Jerus,  or  it  may 
mean  t  hat  Judah,  too,  shall  be  besieged.  The  latter 
is  obviously  the  true  meaning  of  the  passage,  as  ver 
7  indicates.  For,  as  one  nation  might  besiege 
Jerus  (a  city),  so  all  nations,  coming  up  are  prac- 
tically going  to  besiege  Judah.  The  LXX  favors 
(his  interpretation;  likewise  (he  Coptic  VS;  and 
Zee  14  14.  Wellhausen  frankly  concedes  that  "no 
characteristic  of  the  prophecy  under  discussion  in 
reality  agrees  with  the  conditions  of  the  Maccabean 
time.  The  Maccabees  were  not  the  Jews  of  the 
lowland,  and  they  ditl  not  join  themselves  with  the 
heathen  out  of  hatred  to  (he  city  of  Jerus,  in  order 
finally  to  fall  treacherously  upon  their  companions 
in  war.  There  is  not  the  slightest  hint  in  our  pas- 
sage of  religious  persecution;  that  alone  decides, 
and  hence  the  most  important  sign  of  Maccabean 
times  is  wanting."  (3)  10  10.11,  which  mentions 
"Egypt"  and  "Assyria"  (and  which,  strange  to  say, 
is  also  one  of  the  strongest  proofs  in  support  of  the 
preexilic  hypothesis),  is  singularly  enough  inter- 
preted to  refer  respectively  to  the  Ptolemies  of 
Egypt  and  (he  Seleucidae  of  Syria.  But  this  is 
quite  impossible,  and  esp.  so  in  view  of  the  promi- 
nence which  is  given  to  Egypt  in  14  10,  which  points 
to  Pers  rather  than  (!r  conditions;  for  (hen  Egypt, 
in  consequence  of  her  perpetual  efforts  to  throw  off 
the  Pers  yoke,  was  naturally  brought  under  the 
observat  ion  of  the  Jews  in  Pal,  who  repeatedly  beheld 
(lie  Pers  armies  passing  on  their  way  to  the  valley 
of  the  Xile. 

(4)  Still  another  argument  advanced  in  favor  of  a 
late  post-Zecharian  date  for  these  oracles  is  that  from 
language  and  style:  Aramaisms,  m-riptio  i>l<<nn,  the  pre- 


ponderance of  the  shorter  form  of  the  personal  pronoun 
"I,"  this  He!)  ending  on,  the  frequent  use  of  the  notn 
accusative,  esp.  with  suffixes,  the  omission  of  the  article, 
the  use  of  the  infinitive  absolute,  and  the  clumsy  diction 
and  weary  repetition  of  these  prophecies  are  pointed 
to  as  evidence  of  their  origin  in  (irecian  times.  But  in 
opposition  to  these  claims,  it  may  be  remarked  in  general 
that  their  force;  is  greatly  weakened  by  two  considerations: 
(a)  the  fact  that  the  author  of  chs  9  14  depends  so  largely 
on  older  prophecies  for  his  thoughts,  and  consequently 
more  or  less  for  his  language;  and  (h)  the  fact  that  these 
prophecies  are  so  very  brief.  There  is  no  mode  of 
reasoning  so  treacherous  as  that  from  language  and  style. 
(For  the  technical  discussion  of  this  point,  see  the  present 
writer's  Tke  Prophecies  of  Zcchanak,  54-59.) 

Among  the  further  objections  made  to  the  genu- 
ineness of  chs  9-14,  and  consequently  (o  the  unity 

of  the  book,  1  he  following  are  the  chief: 
5.  The  (1)  There  are  no  "visions"  in  these 

Unity  of  oracles  as  in  chs  1-6.  But  there  are 
the  Book  none  either  in  chs  7,  8,  and  yet  these 

latter  are  not  denied  to  Zechariah. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  however,  visions  do  actually 
occur  in  chs  9-14,  only  of  a  histories-parabolic 
(11  4-17)  and  eschatological  character  (9  13-17; 
chs  12,  14).  (2)  There  are  "no  dates,"  as  in 
1  1.7;  7  1.  But  dates  are  seldom  attached  to 
"oracles"  (Isa  13  1;  15  1;  Nah  1  1;  Hab  1  1; 
Mai  1  1).  There  is  but  one  instance  in  the  entire 
OT  (Isa  14  28m);  whereas  "visions"  are  frequently 
dated.  (3)  There  is  "no  Satan."  But  Satan  is 
never  mentioned  elsewhere  in  any  prophetic  book 
of  the  OT.  (4)  There  is  "no  interpreting  angel" 
in  chs  9-14.  But  "oracles"  need  no  interpreting 
angel.  On  the  other  hand,  "the  Angel  of  Jeh"  is 
mentioned  in  both  parts  (3  1  ff;  12  8),  a  fact  which 
is  far  more  noteworthy,  (o)  Proper  names  are 
wanting  in  chs  9-14,  e.g.  Zerubbabel  and  Joshua. 
But  neither  do  these  names  occur  in  chs  7,  8.  (ti) 
The  sins  alluded  to  arc  different,  e.g.  theft  and  false 
swearing  in  5  3.4;  while  in  10  2  seeking  teraphim 
and  in  13  2  ff  false  prophecy  are  named.  But, 
these  sins  may  have  existed  side  by  side.  What  is 
far  more  noteworthy,  in  both  parts  the  prophet 
declares  that  all  these  evils  shall  be  taken  away  and 
removed  out  of  the  land  (39;  5  9-11;  13  1.2). 
(7)  The  Messianic  pictures  are  different,  e.g.  in  chs 
1-8  the  Messiah  is  spoken  of  as  Branch-Priest  (3 
8.9;  6  12.13);  whereas  in  chs  9-14,  as  King  (9 
9.10).  But  in  6  13  it  is  expressly  stated  that  the 
Branch-Priest  "shall  sit  and  rule  upon  his  throne." 
Of  far  greater  moment  is  (he  picture  of  the  nations 
coming  to  Zion  to  worship  Jeh.  This  remarkable 
picture  recurs  in  all  the  different  sections  of  the 
book  (6  12.13.15;  8  20-23;  12  6;  14  1(5-19). 

On  the  other  hand,  the  following  are  some  of  the 
arguments  which  favor  the  genuineness  of  these 
disputed  chapters:  (1)  The  fundamental  ideas  of 
both  parts  are  the  same.  By  this  we  mean  that  the 
deeper  we  go  the  nearer  we  approach  unity.  As 
Dr.  G.  A.  Smith  argues  against  Graetz,  who  di- 
vides IIos  1-3  from  Hos  4-14,  "in  both  parts  there 
are  the  same  religious  principles  and  the  same  urgent 
and  jealous  temper";  the  same  is  equally  true  of 
Zee  1-8  and  Zee  9-14.  Certain  similarities  are 
esp.  noteworthy,  e.g.  («)  an  unusually  deep,  spiritual 
tone  pervades  the  entire  book.  The  call  to  a  true 
repentance,  first  sounded  forth  in  the  introduction 
(1  1-7),  is  developed  more  and  more  throughout 
the  entire  14  chs;  thus,  in  the  sanctifying  of 
Joshua  (3  4),  in  the  message  to  Zerubbabel,  "not 
by  might,  nor  by  power,  but  by  my  Spirit"  (4  6), 
in  the  conditions  of  future  blessing  (6  I/)),  in  the 
answer  to  the  Bethel  deputation  (7  f>-9;  8  16  ff); 
and  in  chs  9-14,  in  the  consecration  of  the  remnant 
of  the  Philis  (9  7),  in  the  blessings  to  Ephraim  (10 
12),  in  (liel)ap(ism  of  grace  upon  Jerus  (12  10),  in 
the  fountain  for  sin  (13  1),  in  (lie  worship  of  Jeh 
(13  9),  in  the  living  waters  going  forth  from  Jerus 
(14  8),  and  in  the  dedication  of  everything  as  holy 


Zechariah,  Book  of 
Zedekiah 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3140 


unto  the  Lord  (14  20.21).  The  tone  which  tempers 
these  propherie.-  is  an  extraordinarily  deep  and 
spiritual  one  throughout.  And  this  argument 
cannot,  be  set.  aside  by  rejecting  wholesale  certain 
passages  as  later  interpolations,  as  is  done  by 
Mitchell  (ICC,  242-44).  (/<)  Then;  is  a  similar 
attitude  of  hope  and  expectation  in  both  parts. 
This  is  esp.  important.  .For  example,  (a)  the 
return  of  the  whole  nation  is  a  prevailing  idea  of 
happiness  in  both  parts  (2  (i.K);  8  7.S;  9  12;  10 
67)  (/3)  The  expectation  that  Jems  shall  be  in- 
habited (1  10.17;  2  4;  8  3.S;  12  6;  14  10.11), 
(7)  and  that  the  temple  shall  be  built  and  become 
the  center  of  the  nation's  religious  life  (1  10.17; 

3  7;  6  If);   7  2.:};   9  <S;    14  20.21).     (5)  Messianic 
hope  is  peculiarly-  strong  in  both   (3  8.0;    6  12.13; 
9  1)  If);  11  12.13;  12  10;  13  1.7-9).     («)  Peace  and 
prosperity  are  expected  (1  17;  3  10;  6  i:j;  8  12.19; 
9  10.12-17;    10  1.7.8.10.12;    12  8;    14  11.16-19). 
(T)  The  idea  of  (iod's  providence  as  extending  to 
the  whole  earth  (1  14-17;  2  0.12;  4  10;  6  5;  9  1. 
s.14;  10  3.0.9.12;  12  2-4. S;  13  7;  14  3.9).    Again, 
(c)  the  prophet's  attitude  toward  Judah  is  the  same 
in  both  parts.     It  is  an  attitude  of  .supreme  regard 
for  Judah's  interests,  making  them  second  only  to 
the  capital  (2  2.4.10;  8  19;   1  12;  8  13.15;   12  2; 
14  14;  10  3;  12  4.0.7;  14  21;  9  9.13;  10  0:  11  14; 
14  5).     The  prophet's  attitude  toward  the  nations, 
the  enemies  of  the  theocracy,  is  the  same  in  both 
parts.     The  whole  assembled  world  are  the  enemies 
of  Israel.     But  though  they  have  scattered  Judah, 
Israel  and  Jems  (1   11),  and  are  still  coming  up  to 
besiege  Jeru.s  (12  2;  14  2),  yet  they  shall  be  joined 
to  the  Lord  in  t  hat  day  (2   11)  and  worship  Jeh  like 
the  Jews  (8  20-23;  14  16-19).     These  are  all  striking 
instances  of  similarity  iu  the  fundamental  ideas  of 
the  two  parts  of  1  he  book. 

(2)  There  are  peculiarities  of  thought  common  to 
both  parts:  e.tr.  (")  the  habit  of  dwelling  ou  the  same 
thought  (21.4.5.11;  612.13;  84.5;  821.22; 
11  8:  l  13  3;  14  5. 10.18. I'D;  (M  the  habit  of  ex- 
panding one  fundamental  thought,  into  a  series  of 
clauses  (6  13;  9  5.7;  1  17;  3  8.9;  12  4j;  (O  the 
habit  of  referring  to  a  thought  already  introduced: 
e.g.  to  the  "Branch"  (3  S;  6  12 1;  "eyes"  (3  9; 

4  10);    measuring  "line"    (1  10;    2  5.0);    choosing 
Jerus  (1  17;    2  12;    3  2);   removing  iniquity  (3  9; 

5  3fT;    13  2);    measurements  (5  2;   14  10) ;  colors 
of   horses    (1  8;     6  2.0);     the   idea   of    Israel   as    a 
"flock"  (9  10;    10  2;    11  4  f;    13  7);    idols  (10  2; 
132);     shepherds    (11  3  ff;     137);     and    of    "all 
nations"    (1110;     12  3  IT;     142iT);     Mitchell    in 
attempting    to    answer    this    argument    has    failed 
utterly  to  grasp  the,  point  ([<'<',  213);    (</)  the  use 
made  of  the   cardinal  number   "two";     thus,   two 
olive  trees  (4  3);  two  women  (5  9);  two  mountains 
(6  1);  two  staves  (11  7j;  two  parts  (14  2.4);   with 
which  compare  6  13;    9  12;    14  8;    (r)  the  resort 
in    each    part    of    the    book    to    symbolic    actions 
as  a  mode  of  instruction;    e.g.  the  coronation  scene 
in  6  9-15,  and  the  breaking  of  the  two  staves  in 

(3)  Certain  peculiarities  of  diction  and  style  favor 
unity  of  authorship;  e.g.  the  phrase  "no  man  passed 
through  nor  returned"  (7  14;  9  8)  never  occurs 
elsewhere  in  the  OT.  The  author's  preference  tor 
and  frequent  use  of  vocatives  (2  7.10;  3  2.8;  4  7; 
99.13;  11  1.2;  13  7j;  and  esp.  the  frequent  alter- 
nation of  the  scn'titio  />l<-na  and  the  xcriptio  ilifcctira 
orthography  in  the  Ileb  (cf  1  2.5  with  1  4.0  and 
8  14;  2  11  with  5  7;  1  11  with  7  7;  9  5  with  10 
5.11;  and  10  4  \\ith9  9). 

Accordingly,  we  conclude,  (1)  that  cha  9-14  are 
of  post-exilic  origin;  (2)  that  they  are  not,  however, 
late  post-exilic;  (3)  that  they  had  their  origin  in  the 
period  just,  before  the  completion  of  the  temple,  510 
BC,  and  (4)  that  they  were  probably  composed  by 


Zechariah  himself.  This  conclusion  is  based  upon 
the  text  taken  as  a  whole,  without  an  arbitrary  dis- 
section of  the  prophecies  in  the  inter- 
6.  Conclu-  ests  of  a  false  theory.  Mitchell  (ICC, 
sion  258-59),  after  eliminating  numerous 

individual  passages,  arrives  at  the  con- 
clusion that  chs  9-14  were  written  by  four  differ- 
ent writers;  (1)  9  1-10,  soon  after  333  BC;  (2)  9 
11—11  3,  about,  247-222  BC;  (3)  11  4-17  and  13 
7  9,  between  217  and  204  BC;  and  (4)  12  1—13  0 
and  eh  14,  about  the  same  time.  Tradition  points 
to  a  .saner  and  securer  conclusion,  that  these  oracles 
were  written  by  Zechariah  himself;  which  in  turn 
is  corroborated  by  internal  evidence,  as  has  been 
shown  above.  One  wonders  why  these  oracles, 
written  so  late  in  Israel's  history,  should  have 
been  appended  by  the  collectors  of  the  Canon 
to  the  genuine  prophecies  of  Zechariah,  if,  as  is 
alleged,  that  prophet  had  nothing  whatever  to  do 
with  them! 

LITERATURE. — -(1)  Those  who  defend  the.  unity  of  the 
book:  C.  H.  II.  \Vrinllt.  Zeehariah  and  His  Prophecies 
(Hampton  !.<•<  -tun  -s) ,  London,  1S70;  G.  L.  Robinson, 
The  Prophecies  of  Z <.•<•,  with  Special  Reference  to  the 
(>ri<iin  and  Date  <>f  Chs  9-74,  Leipzig  Dissertation, 
reprinted  from  .l./Xf.,  XT1,  1806;  \V.  H.  Lowe,  Ileb 
Student's  Comm.  on  Zee,  11<I>  nnd  LXX,  London,  1RS2; 
C.  .1.  Brod'.-nkamp,  Der  Prophet  Saeh.,  Erklart,  1870; 
Marcus  Dods,  The  ]'<>st-Exili,in  Prophets:  Has;.,  Zerh., 
}fal  (."Handbook  for  Bib.  Classes";,  Edinburgh,  1879; 
K.  B.  Pnsey,  Minor  Prophets,  1S77;  W.  Drake,  "Comm. 
on  /ec"  (Speaker's  Comm.),  1S76;  T.  \V.  Chambers, 
•'The  Book  of  /cc"  (LniK/e^s  Hi  hie,  Work),  1874;  A. 
Van  Tlouaack.  r.  in  Revue  Bihlinnc,  1002,  1(U  ff;  idem, 
leu  doii-f,  petit*  prophetes,  100S;  AVm.  Mocller,  art. 
"/ochariah"  in  The  111  unrated  Bible  Diet.,  edited  by  W. 
C.  I'HTcy,  1908. 

(L!)  Those  who  ddrorate  a  prei'.rilic  origin  for  chs  9-14: 
Hit/iir-SiriniT,  Die  z wolf  kleinen  Propheten,  1881;  Samuel 
Davidson,  An  Intro  to  the  OT,  18(i2-t>:5;  VV.  Pressel, 
( 'om  mi  ntar  :n  den  Schriften  der  Prophet  en.  Haw/ai,  Sacharja 
und  \faleaehi,  1S70;  C.  A.  Bruston,  Ilistoire  critique  tie.  la 
litterature  prophctique  den  ffebreujc,  1 SS 1 ;  Samuel  Sharpe, 
History  of  the.  Ilih  \nli"n,  Literature  and  Chronology, 
1SS2;  C.  von  Oivlli,  Das  Bueh  Ezechiel  it.  die  zwolf 
kleinen  1'rophi  ten ,  1SSS;  Ferd.  Montct,  f'.tnde  critique  sur 
In  date  axsiunable  an.r  six  d<rnierx  chnpltres  de  Zne,  1SS2; 
H.  I,.  Strack,  Einleitnng  in  das  A  T.  ls<j.'>;  F.  W.  F'arrar. 
Minor  Prophets,  in  "  Men  of  the  Biblo"  series. 

(:?)  Those  irfio  adroeatr  a  pnst-Zeeharian  origin  for  chs 
9-14-  B.  Stado,  "  Deuterozacliarja,  eino  krit.  Studio," 
in  7.  1  7'  It',  tssi  -,S2;  T.  K.  Chrync,  "The  Dato  of  Zee 
9-14  "  in  JQK,  I,  1SSO;  C.  H.  Cornill,  Einleitung  in  das 
A  T.  1891;  S.  K.  Driver,  Intro  to  the  Literature  oftheOT, 
1010;  ,J.  Wcllliausi'ii,  Die,  kleinen  Proiihete.n  iihersetzt, 
1S'):5-  N  I.  Rubinkam,  The.  Second  Part  of  the  Book  of 
Zee  iv.»2;  Karl  Marti,  I),  r  Prophet  Saeharja,  1S92;  A.  F. 
Kirk  pat  rick.  Doctrine  of  the  Prophets.  1S'.)2;  ]i.  Eckardt, 
"l>rr  Sprachgcbrauch  von  Xacb  9  14,"  ZATW,  is1.).'?, 
7ti  10!);  A.  K.  Kuiper,  Zaeharja  9 -14;  fine  exege.tise.h- 
cril^clie,  Stii'lie,  1804;  J.  W.  Rot  listein,  Die  A'aeht- 
uesichte  des  Sacharja,  1010;  ('..  A.  Smitll  in  Expositor's 
Bible  1S<M1-07;  S.' K.  Driver  in  tho  New  Century  B\ble; 
II.  (i.  Mitchell,  ICC,  1012. 

GEORGE  L.  ROBINSON 

ZECHER,  ze'ker  O"  ,  zukhcr,  pausal  form  for 
"""  ,  zi'kher,  " memorial";  A\'Zacher):  In  1  Ch  8 
3l'=  "Zechariah"  of  1  Ch  9  37.  See  ZECHARIAH,  (5). 

ZECHRIAS,  zek-n'as  (B,  ZcxpCas,  Zechrins,  A 
and  Frit/sche,  'E^epias,  K:<rifix;  AV  Ezerias) :  An 
ancestor  of  Kzra  (\.  1'Isd  8  l)  =  "Azariah"  of  Ezr 
7  1. 

ZEDAD,  ze'dad  (•"»""? ,  q'dhadliilh,  only  found 
with  lie  locale;  Sam  ""IT  ,  c'Tadhah;  LXX  2apa- 
8eiK,  tidruddk,  SaSaSaK,  Xadtiddk,  SaSSaK,  tiudddk): 
A  town  or  district  named  in  Nu  34  8;  Ezk  47 
15  as  on  the  ideal  northern  boundary  of  Israel. 
The  uncertainty  of  the  reading  has  led  to  two 
different  identifications  being  proposed.  The  form 
"Zerad"  was  accepted  by  von  Kasteren,  and  his 
identification  was  Klu'rbct  Scrada  in  theMerj^Ayun, 
W.  of  the  Hasbany  branch  of  the  Jordan  and  N.  of 
'•Abil.  This  identification,  however,  would  compel 
us  to  draw  the  ideal  boundary  along  the  Qasmiyeh 
valley  and  thence  eastward  to  Hermon,  and  that 


3141  THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA    Zechariah.Bookof 

APnplriflh 


is  much  loo  fur  S.  If  with  Dillmann,  Wetzstein, 
Muehlau  and  others  we  read  "Zedad,"  then  it  is 
clearly  identical  with  S<nl<t<l,  a  village  on  the  road 
between  Ribleh  and  Kuri/clai/i.  It,  ha.s  been  ob- 
jected that  i^a/lti/l  is  too  far  to  the  E.;  but  here,  as 
in  (lie  tribal  boundaries  also,  the  references  are 
rattier  to  (lie  district  or  lands  possessed  than  to 
their  central  town  or  village.  W.  AI.  CHKISTIK 


ZEDECHIAS,  zed-n-kl'a 
"Sedekias." 


1  Esd  1    10  AV=HV 


ZEDEKIAH,  zed-6-ki'a,  OirPp-3: ,  giM 
r^P"^  ,  gidhklyah,  "Jeh  my  righteousness"; 
Kid,  St'ih'kiii,  ZeSsKias,  Sedekias)'. 

(1)  The  son  of  Chenaunah  (1    K  22  11.24;  2  Ch 
18   10.2:i).     Zedekiah    was    apparently    the    leader 
and  spokesman  of  the  400  prophets  attached  to  the 
court  in  Samaria  whom  Ahab  summoned  in  response 
to    Jehoshaphat  's    request'    that,    n    prophet    of    Jeh 
should  be  consulted  concerning  the  projected  cam- 
paign against   Ramoth-gilead.     In  order  the  better 
to    impress    his   audience   Zedekiah   ])rodiiced    iron 
horns,  and  said  to  Ahab,   "With  these  shalt  thou 
push  the  Syrians,   until  they  be  consumed."     JIe 
also  endeavored  to  weaken  the  influence  of  Micaiah 
ben    Imlah   upon    the   kings    by  asking  ironically, 
''\Vhich  way  went    the  Spirit  of  Jeh  from   me  to 
speak  unto  thee?" 

In  Jos  (Ant,  VIII.  xv,  -1)  there  is  an  interesting  re- 
arrangement and  embellishment  of  the  Bib.  narrative. 
There  /edekiah  is  represented  as  arguing  that  since 
Micaiah  contradicts  Klijah's  prediction  as  to  the  place  of 
Ahab's  death,  lie  must  be  regarded  as  a  false,  prophet. 
Then,  smiting  his  opponent,  he  prayed  that  if  he  were 
In  the  wrong  his  right  hand  might  forthwith  be  withered. 
Ahab.  sec-ing  that  no  harm  befell  the  hand  that  had  smit- 
ten Micaiah,  was  convinced;  whereupon  Zedekiah  com- 
pleted his  triumph  by  the  incident  of  the  horns  mentioned 
above. 

(2)  The    son    of    Maaseiah    (Jer  29  21-23).     A 
false    prophet    who,    in    association    \\ilh    another, 
Ahab   by   name,    prophesied   among   the   exiles   in 
Babylon,   and  foretold  an   early  return  from  cap- 
tivity.    Jeremiah  sternly  denounced  them,  not  only 
for  their  false  and  reckless  predictions,  but  also  for 
their  foul  and  adulterous  lives,  and  declared  that 
their  fate  at  the  hands  of  Nebuchadnezzar  should 
become  proverbial  in  Israel. 

(3)  The  son  of  llananiah   (Jer  36  12).     One  of 
the  princes  of  Judah  before  whom  Jeremiah's  roll 
was  read  in  the  5th  year  of  Jehoiakim. 

(4)  One  of  the  officials  who  sealed  the  renewed 
covenant   (Neh  10  1,  AV   "Zid-kijah").     The  fact 
that  his  name  is  couplet  1  with  Nehemiah's  suggests 
that  he  was  a  person  of  importance.     But  nothing 
further  is  known  of  him. 

(5)  The  last  king  of  Judah  (see  following  art.). 

Joii.v  A.  LKES 

ZEDEKIAH  FirP£-2  ,  ^dhku/ah u,  ' '.] eh  my 
righteousness";  name  changed  from  Maftaniah 
(rPlFVE  ,  mattanyali,  "gift  of  Jeh";  SeSeidas,  Scdc- 
ki(is) '. 

I.      SoiTUCES    FOR   His    UlCKi.V    AM)    T 1  M  K 

1.  Annalist ic 

'2.  Prophetic 
II.    Tin:  ADMINISTRATION  OK  THK  LAST  KINO  OF  JUUAII 

1.  The  Situation 

2.  The  Parvenu  Temper 

3.  Inconsistencies 

4.  Pharactcr  of  the  King 

5.  His  Fate 

6.  Doom  of  the  Nation 

The  last  king  of  Judah,  uncle;  and  successor  of 
Jehoiachin;  reigned  11  years,  from  5(.)7  to  f>!Sl>,  and 
was  curried  captive  to  Babylon. 

/.  Sources  for  His  Reign  and  Time. — Neither  of 
the  accounts  in  2  K  24  IS— 25  7  and  2  Ch  36 
11-21  refers,  as  is  the  usual  custom,  to  state  annals; 


these  ran  out  with  the  reign  of  Jehoiakim.  The 
history  in  2  K  is  purely  scribal  and  annalist  ic  in 

tone;  2  Ch,  esp.  as  it  goes  on  to  the 
1.  Annal-  captivity,  is  more  fervid  and  homiletic. 
istic  Bot  h  have  a  common  prophet  ic  origin; 

and  indeed  the  last  chapter  of  Jer  (52), 
which  is  put  as  an  appendix  to  the  book  of  his 
prophecy,  tells  t  he  story  of  t  he  reign  and  subsequent 
events,  much  as  does  2  K,  but.  in  somewhat  fuller 
detail. 

Two  prophets  are  watching  witli  keen  ey»s  the  progress 
of  l  his  reign,  both  wit  h  the  poignant  sense  1  hat  the  etui  of 

the  Judaean  state  is  imminent:     Jeremiah 

o     prnnViptiV 'lv  -'eras  and  Ezekiel,   one  of  1  lie  captives 

lcin    the    deportation    with    Jehoiachiii,    in 

Babylon.  Dales  are  supplied  with  tin; 
prophecies  of  both:  Jeremiah's  numbered  from  the 
beginning  of  the  reign  and  not  consecutive;  K/rkicl's 
numbered  from  the  beginning  of  the  first,  captivitv,  and 
so  coinciding  with  Jeremiah's.  From  these  'dated 
prophecies  the  principal  ideas  are  to  be  formed  of  the  real 
inwardness  of  the  time  and  the  character  of  the  adminis- 
tration. The  prophetic  passages  identifiable  witli  this 
reign,  counted  by  its  years,  are:  Jer  24,  after  the  deporta- 
tion of  Jehoiachin  (Jeconiah) — the  inferior  classes  left 
with  Zedekiah  (cf  Ezk  11  15;  17  12-14);  Jer  27-29, 
beginning  of  reiirn — false  hopes  of  return  of  captives  and 
futile  diplomacies  with  neighboring  nations;  Jer  51  o'.', 
4th  year — /.'s  visit  to  Babylon;  Ezk  47,  5th  year — 
symbolic  prophecies  of  the  coming  end  of  Judah;  Ezk 
8  12,  iltli  year — quasi-clairvoyant  view  of  the  idolatrous 
corruptions  in  Jerus;  Ezk  17  11-21,  same  year — Z.'s 
treacherous  intrigues  with  Egypt;  Ezk  21  18-23,  7th 
year — Nebuchadnezzar  casting  a  divination  to  deter- 
mine his  invasion  of  Judah:  Jer  21,  undated  but  soon 
after — deputation  from  the  king  to  the  prophet  inquiring 
Jeh's  purpose;  Jer  34  1-7,  undated — the  prophet's 
word  to  the  king  while  Nebuchadnezzar's  invasion  is  still 
among  the  cities  of  the  land;  Ezk  24  1.2,  9th  year — 
telepathic  awareness  of  the  beginning  of  the  siege,  syn- 
chronistic with  Jer  39  1-10;  2  K  25  1-7;  Jer  37/38, 
undated,  but  soon  after — prophecies  connected1  with  the 
temporary  raising  of  the  siege  and  the  false  faith  of  the 
ruling  classes;  Jer  32,  10th  year — Jeremiah's  redemption 
of  his  Anathoth  property  in  the;  midst  of  siege,  and  the 
good  presage  of  the  act;  Jer  39,  llth  year — annalistic 
account  of  the  breaching  of  the  city  wall  and  the  flight 
and  eventual  fate  of  the  king.  A  year  and  a  half  later 
Ezekiel  (33  21.22)  hears  the  news  from  a  fugitive. 

II.    The   Administration    of    the    Last   King   of 
Judah. — When  Nebuchadnezzar  took  away  Jehoia- 
chin, and  withhimall  themcn  of  weight 

1.  The  and  character  (see  under  JEHOIACHIN), 
Situation        his  object  was  plain:   to  leave  a  people 

so  broken  in  resources  and  spirit  that 
they  would  not  be  moved  to  rebellion  (see  Ezk  17 
14).  But  this  measure  of  his  effected  a  segmenta- 
tion of  the  nation  which  the  prophets  immediately 
recognized  as  virtually  separating  out  their  spiritual 
"remnant"  to  go  to  Babylon,  while  the  worldly  and 
inferior  grades  remained  in  Jerus.  These  are  sharply 
distinguished  from  each  other  by  Jeremiah  in  his 
parable  of  the  Figs  (ch  24),  published  soon  after  the 
first  deportation.  The  people  that  were  left  were 
probably  of  the  same  sort  that  Zephaniah  described 
a  few  years  before,  those  who  had  "settled  on  their 
lees"  (1  12),  a  godless  and  inert  element  in  religion 
and  state.  Their  religious  disposition  is  portrayed 
by  Ezekiel  in  Z.'s  Gth  year,  in  his  clairvoyant  vision 
of  the  uncouth  temple  rites,  as  it  were  a  cesspool  of 
idolatry,  maintained  under  the  pretext  that  Jeh 
had  forsaken  the  land  (see  Ezk  8).  Clearly  these 
were  not  of  the  prophetic  stamp.  It  was  over  such 
an  inferior  grade  of  people  that  Z.  was  appointed 
to  a  thankless  and  tragic  reign. 

For  a  people  so  raw  and  inexperienced  in  administra- 
tion the  prophets  recognized  one  clear  duty:    to  keep 
the  oath  which  they  had  given  to  Nebu- 

2.  The  cliadne/zar     (see     Ezk     17     14-10).      But 
p'  they  acted  like  men  intoxicated  with  new 
J^arven  power;     their   accession    to   property   and 
Temper             unwonted     position     turned     their     heads. 

Soon  after  the,  beginning  of  the  reign  we 
find  Jeremiah  giving  emphatic  warning  both  to  his  nation 
and  the  ambassadors  of  neighboring  nations  against  a 
rebellious  coalition  (Jer  27  mistakenly  dated  in  the  4th 
year  of  Jehoiakim;  cf  vs  3.12);  he  has  also  an  encounter 
with  prophets  who,  in  contradiction  of  his  consistent 


Zedekiah 
Zenas 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3142 


message,  predict  the  speedy  restoration  of  Jehoiachin  and 
the,  temple  vessels.  The  king's  visit  to  Babylon  (.'er  51 
f>9)  was  probably  made  to  clear  himself  of  complicity  in 
treasonable  plot's.  Their  evil  genius,  Egypt,  however, 
is  busy  with  the  too  headstrong  upstart  rulers;  and  about 
the  middle  of  the  reign  7.  breaks  his  covenant  with  his 
over-lord  and,  relying  on  Egypt,  embarks  on  rebellion. 
The  prophetic:  view  of  this  movement  is,  that  it  is  a 
moral  outrage;  it  is  breaking  a  sworn  word  (Kzk  17  lu- 
ll)), and  thus  falsifying  the  truth  of  .Jeh. 

This  act  of  rebellion  against  the  king  of  Babylon 

\vas  not.  the  only  despite  done  to  "Jell's  oath."     Its 

immediate    effect,    of    course,    was    to 

3.  Incon-       precipitate  the  invasion  of  the  Chal- 
sistencies       daean  forces,  apparently  from  Riblah 

on  the  Orontes,  \vhere  for  several  years 
Nebuchadnezzar  had  his  headquarters.  E/k  has 
a  striking  description  of  his  approach,  halting  to 
determine  by  arrow  divination  whether  to  proceed 
against.  Judah  or  Animon  (21  1X-23).  Before  lay- 
ing siege  to  Jerus,  however,  he  seems  to  have  spent 
some  time  reducing  outlying  fortresses  (cf  Jer  34 
1-7);  and  during  the  suspense  of  this  lime  the  king 
sent,  a  deputation  to  Jeremiah  to  inquire  whether 
Jell  would  not  do  "according  to  all  his  wondrous 
works,"  evidently  hoping  for  some  such  miraculous 
deliverance  as  had  taken  place  in  the  time  of  Sen- 
nacherib (Jer  21  Iff).  The  prophet  gives  his  uniform 
answer,  that  the  city  must  fall;  advising  the  house 
of  David  also  to  "execute  justice  and  righteousness." 
Setting  about,  this  counsel  as  if  they  would  bribe 
Jeh's  favor,  the  king  then  entered  into  an  agreement 
with  his  people  to  free  all  their  Hebrew  bond-slaves 
(Jer  34  S  10),  and  sent  back  a  deputation  to  the 
prophet  entreating  his  intercession  (Jer  37  3),  as  if, 
having  bribed  Jeh,  t  hey  might  work  some  kind  of  a 
charm  on  the  Divine  will.  Nebuchadnezzar  had 
meanwhile  invested  the  city;  but  just  then  the  Egyp 
army  approached  to  aid  Judah,  and  the  Bab  king 
raised  the  siege  long  enough  to  drive  the  Egyptians 
back  to  their  own  land;  at  which,  judging  that 
Jeh  had  interfered  as  of  old,  the  people  caused  their 
slaves  to  return  to  their  bondage  (34  11).  This 
treachery  called  forth  a  trenchant  prophecy  from 
Jeremiah,  predicting  not  only  the  speedy  return  of 
the  Chaldaean  army  (Jer  37  (5-10),  but  the  cap- 
tivity of  the  king  and  the  destruction  of  the  city 
(Jer  34  17-22).  It,  was  during  thin  temporary 
cessation  of  the  siege  that  Jeremiah,  attempting  to 
go  to  Anathoth  to  redeem  his  family  property,  was 
seized  on  the  pretext  of  deserting  to  the  enemy,  and 
put  in  prison  (37  ll-lf». 

During  the  siege,  which  was  soon  resumed,  Z.'s 

character,  on  its  good  and  bad  sides,  was  revealed 

through  his  frequent  contact  with  the; 

4.  Character  prophet    Jeremiah.     The    latter    was 
of  the  King   a  prisoner  most  of  the  time;    and  the 

indignities  which  lie  suffered,  and 
which  the  king  heedlessly  allowed,  show  how  the 
prophet's  word  and  office  had  fallen  in  respect  (cf 
the  treatment  he  received,  Jer  26  1(5-19  with  37 
l.">;  38  0).  The  king,  however,  was  not  arrogant 
and  heartless  like  his  brother  Jehoiakim;  he  was 
weak  and  without  consistent  principles ;  besides,  he 
was  rather  helpless  and  timid  in  the  hands  of  his 
headstrong  officials  (cf  38  f>. 24-2(5).  His  regard  for 
the  word  of  prophecy  was  rather  superstitious  than 
religions:  while  the  prophet's  message  and  counsel 
were  uniformly  consistent,  he  could  not  bring  him- 
self to  follow  the  will  of  Jeh,  and  seemed  to  think 
that  Jeh  could  somehow  be  persuaded  to  change 
his  plans  (see  Jer  37  17;  38  14-10).  His  position 
was  an  exceedingly  diflicult  one;  but  even  so,  he 
had  not  the  firmness,  the  wisdom,  the  consistency 


In  his  siege  of  the  city  Nebuchadnezzar  depended 
mainly  on  starving  it  into  surrender;  and  we  can- 
not withhold  a  measure  of  admiration  for  a  body 
of  defenders  who,  in  spite  of  the  steadily  decreasing 


food   supply  and   the  ravages   of    pestilence,    held 

the  city  for  a  year  and  a  half.     During  this  time 

Jeremiah's  counsel  was  well  known :  the 

5.  His  Fate  counsel  of  surrender,  arid  the  promise 

that  so  they  could  save  their  lives 
(Jer  21  9;  38  2).  It  was  for  this,  indeed,  that  he 
was  imprisoned,  on  the  plea  that  he  "weakened  the 
hands"  of  the  defenders;  and  it  was  due  to  the 
mercy  of  a  foreign  slave  that  he  did  not  suffer  death 
(38  7-9J.  At  length  in  the  llth  year  of  Z.'s  reign, 
just  as  the  supply  of  food  in  the  city  was  exhausted, 
the  Chaldaean  army  effected  a  breach  in  the  wall, 
and  the  king  of  Babylon  with  his  high  officials  came 
in  and  sat  in  the  middle  gate.  Z.  and  his  men  of 
war,  seeing  this,  fled  by  night,  taking  the  ill-advised 
route  by  the  road  to  Jericho;  were  pursued  and 
captured  in  the  plains  of  the  Jordan;  and  Z.  was 
brought  before  the  king  of  Babylon  at  Riblah. 
After  putting  to  death  Z.'s  sons  and  the  nobles  of 
Judah  before  his  eyes,  the  king  of  Babylon  then 
put  out  the  eyes  of  Z.  and  carried  him  captive  to 
Babylon,  where,  it  is  uncertain  how  long  after,  he 
died.  Jeremiah  had  prophesied  that  he  would  die 
in  peace  and  have  a  state  mourning  (Jer  34  4.5); 
Ezekiol's  prophecy  of  his  doom  is  enigmatic:  "I 
will  bring  him  to  Babylon  to  the  land  of  the  Chal- 
deans; yet  shall  he  not  see  it,  though  he  shall  die 
there"  (Ezk  12  13). 

The  cruelly  devised  humiliation  of  the  king  was 
only  an  episode  in  the  tragic  doom  of  the  city  and 

nation.      Nebuchadnezzar      was      not 

6.  Doom  of  minded     to    leave;    so    stubborn    and 
the  Nation     treacherous  a  fortress  on  his  path  of 

conquest  toward  Egypt.  A  month 
after  the  event  at  Riblah  his  deputy,  Nebuzaradan, 
entered  upon  the  reduction  of  the  city:  burning  the 
temple  and  all  the  principal  houses,  breaking  down 
the  walls,  carrying  away  the  temple  treasures  still 
unpillaged,  including  the  bronze  work  which  was 
broken  into  scrap  metal,  and  deporting  the  people 
who  were  left  after  the  desperate  resistance  and 
those  who  had  voluntarily  surrendered.  _  The  re- 
ligious and  state  officials  were  taken  to  Riblah  and 
put  to  death.  "So,"  the  historian  concludes, 
"Judah  was  carried  away  captive  out  of  his  land" 
(Jer  62  27).  This  was  in  5SO  BC.  This,  however, 
was  only  the  political  date  of  the  Bab  exile,  the 
retributive  limit  for  those  leavings  of  Israel  who 
for  1 1  years  had  played  an  insincere  game  of  admin- 
istration and  failed.  The  prophetic  date,  from  which 
Ezekiel  reckons  the  years  of  exile,  and  from  which  the 
prophetic  eye  is  kept,  on  the  fortunes  and  character 
of  the  people  who  are  to  be  redeemed,  was  f)(.)7,  when 
Jehoiachin's  long  imprisonment  began  and  when 
the  flower  of  Israel,  transplanted  to  a  foreign  home, 
began  its  term  of  submission  to  the  word  and  will 
of  Jeh.  It  was  this  saving  element  in  Israel  who 
still  had  a  recognized  king  and  a  promised  future. 
By  both  Jeremiah  and  Ezekiel,  Z.  was  regarded  not 
as  Jeh's  anointed  but  as  the  one  whom  Nebuchad- 
nezzar "had  made  king"  (Jer  37  1;  Ezk  17  10), 
"the  king  that  sitteth  upon  the  throne  of  David" 
(.In-  29  10).  The  real  last  king  of  Judah  was 
Jehoiachin;  Ezekicl's  title  for  Z.  is  "prince"  (Ezk 

12    10).  J()H\    FllAN'KLI.V    (llCXUXG 

ZEEB,  ze'el),  zeb.     See  OIIKH  AND  ZEEII. 

ZELA,  ZELAH,  ze'la  (752,  oe/«<  [2  S  21  14]): 
A  city  in  the  territory  of  Benjamin  (Josh  18  2S; 
LXX  here  omits).  Here  was  the  burying-place  of 
the  family  of  Saul,  whither  the  bones  of  the  king 
and  of  Jonathan  were  brought  for  burial  (2  S  21 
14;  LXX  here  reads  en  tt,  ple.nrd,  translating  qchl\ 
"side").  The  place  is  not  identified.  It  may  be 
the  Zilu  of  the  Am  Tab. 


3113 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zedekiah 
Zenas 


ZELEK,  ze'lek  (p?^  ,  f''/rA\  meaning  unknown)  : 
An  Ammonite,  one  of  David's  mighty  men  (2  S 
23  37;  1  Ch  11  39). 

ZELOPHEHAD,  zft-lo'fWuul  OnS5$  ,  r*«M- 
hadh,  meaning  unknown)  :  Head  of  a  Manassitc 
family  who  died  without  male  issue  (Xu  26  33; 
27  1.7;  36  2.0.10.11;  Josh  17  3;  1  Ch  7  lf>j. 
Hi.s  daughters  came  to  Moses  and  Eleazar  and  suc- 
cessfully pleaded  for  a  possession  for  themselves 
(Xu  27  1  i'f).  This  became  the  occasion  for  a  law 
providing  that  in  the  case  of  a  man  dying  without 
sons,  the  inheritance  was  to  pass  to  his  daughters 
if  lie  had  any.  A  further  request  is  made  (Xu  36 
2ff)  by  the  heads  of  the  Gileadite  houses  that  the 
women  who  were  given  this  right  of  inheritance 
should  be  compelled  to  marry  members  of  their  own 
tribe,  so  that  the  tribe  may  not  lose  them  and  their 
property.  This  is  granted  and  becomes  law  among 
the  Hebrews. 

Cray  says  (ICC  on  Nu  26  33)  that  the  "daughters" 
of  Zelophehad  are  towns  or  clans. 

DAVID   FRANTIS  ROBERTS 

ZELOTES,  zO-lo'tez  (Z^Xwrris,  Zclolcs).  See 
SI.MOX  THE  ZEALOT;  ZEALOT,  ZEALOTS. 


ZELZAH,  zel'za 
|ie-yd\a,  hallomenous  megdla)'.  A  place  where  Samuel 
told  Saul  he  would  meet  two  men  with  news  that 
the  asses  were  found.  Its  position  is  defined  as 
"by  Rachel's  sepulchre,  in  the  border  of  Benjamin" 
(1  "S  10  2).  It  has  been  thought  that  the  place  of 
meeting  was  sufficiently  indicated  without  the  word 
lf<^<l<;ah,  which  is  trd  ''at  Zelzah,"  and  that  this  can- 
not therefore  be  u  place-name.  The  LXX  "leaping 
mightily"  or  "in  great  haste"  (Ewald)  points  to  a 
different  text.  Whether  the  Or  can  be  so  trd  is  also 
a  question,  as  mcgola  does  not  elsewhere  occur  as 
an  advb.  Some  corruption  of  the  text  is  probable. 
The  border  of  Benjamin  may  be  roughly  determined, 
but  the  tomb  of  Rachel  is  now  unknown.  Xo  name 
like  Zelzah.  has  been  recovered  in  the  district. 
Smith  ("Samuel,"  ICC,  ad  loc.)  suggests  that  we 
should  read  "Zela"  for  "Zelzah"  (252,  geltf,  for 

W.  EWIXG 


ZEMARAIM,  zem-a-ra'im  p"H^¥  ,  (fmarnyitn; 
B,  2apd,  Sard,  A,  5U|j.pi[A,  tfcniritn'):  A  city  in  the 
territory  of  Benjamin.  It  is  named  between  Beth- 
arabah  and  Bethel  (Josh  18  22),  and  is  probably 
to  be  sought  E.  of  the  latter  city.  It  is  usual  to 
identify  it  with  es-Samra,  a  ruin  about  4  miles  X. 
of  Jericho.  Mt.  Zemaraim  probably  derived  its 
name  from  the  city,  and  must  be  sought,  in  the 
neighborhood.  On  this  height,  which  is  said  to  be 
in  Mt.  Ephraim,  Abijah,  king  of  Judah,  stood  when 
making  his  appeal  to  the  men  of  Israel  under  Jero- 
boam (2  Ch  13  4).  If  the  identification  with  es- 
Samra  is  correct,  this  hill  must  be  in  the  uplands 
to  the  \V.,  r.s-.SV/.wm  being  on  the  floor  of  the  valley. 
Dillmann  (Joxh,  ad  loc.)  thinks  Zemaraim  cannot 
be  so  far  E.  of  Bethel,  but  may  be  found  somewhere 
to  the  S.  of  that  town.  \V.  Ewix<; 


ZEMARITE,  zem'a-rlt  PTElSn  ,  ha-tfmarl; 
6  2a(iapaios,  ho  Samaraios)  '.  A  Can.  people  named 
inden  10  IS;  I  Ch  1  16.  The  occurrence  of  the 
name  between  Arvadite  and  Hamathite  gives  a  hint 
as  to  locality.  A  place  called  Sumur  is  mentioned 
in  the  Am  Tab  along  with  Arvad.  The  name  prob- 
ably survives  in  that,  of  tiunira,  a  village  on  the 
seacoast  between  Tripolis  and  Rmi'dd,  about  l.V 
miles  X.  of  Natir  <l-I\c\nr.  We  may  with  some  cer- 
tainty identify  this  modern  village  with  Hie  site  of 
the  town  from  which  Hie  inhabitants  were  named 
"Zemarites." 


ZEMIRAH,  ze-ml'ra  (rn^'CT ,  z'nnra/t,  me;tning 
uncertain;  LXX  B,  'A(xapias,  Aintir'/ux,  A,  Za.|i,a- 
p£as,  Zanurr'inx;  AV  Zemira):  A  descendant  of  Ben- 
jamin (1  Ch  7  S),  but  more  probably  of  Zebulun 
(Curtis,  Chron.,  145  ff). 

ZENAN,  ze'nan.     See  ZAAXAX. 

ZENAS,    ze'nas    CZ^vas,    Zf-nu*   [Til    3   13];     the 

name    in    full    would    probably    be    Zenodorus,    lit. 

meaning  "the  gift  of  Zeus") :  Paul  calls 

1.  A  Jewish  Zenas  "the  lawyer."     The  meaning  of 
Lawyer  this  is,  that,  previous  to  his  becoming 

a  Christian,  lie  had  been  a  .Jewish 
lawyer.  The  lawyers  were  that  class  of  Jewish 
teachers  who  were  specially  learned  in  the  Mosaic 
Law,  and  who  interpreted  that  Law,  and  taught  it 
to  the  people. 

They  are  met  with  again  and  again  in  tlie  Compels, 
where  they  frequently  came  into  contact  with  Christ, 
usually  in  a  manner  hostile  to  Him.  For  example,  "A 
certain  lawyer  stood  up  and  made  trial  of  him.  saying, 
Teacher,  what  shall  I  do  to  inherit  eternal  life'.'"  (  Lk 
10  25).  Our  Lord  replied  to  him  on  his  own  ground, 
asking,  "  What  is  written  ///  tin'  la  »• .'  how  readest  thou  '.'  " 
Regarding  this  class  of  teachers  as  a  whole,  it  is  recorded 
that  "the  Pharisees  and  lawyers  rejected  for  themselves 
the  counsel  of  (!od"  (Lk  7  30).  The  term  immikd*, 
"lawyer,"  applied  to  Zenas,  is  in,  tho  Cospels  varied  by 
nomodiddskalos,  "a  teacher  of  the  law,"  and  by  /jram- 
iiKitcux,  "a  scribe":  all  three  terms  describe  the  same 
persons.  Before  his  conversion  to  Christ,  Zenas  had  been 
a  lawyer,  0110  of  the  recognized  expounders  of  the  Law  of 
Moses. 

A  different  view  of  Zenas'  occupation  is  taken  by  Zalm 
(Intro  to  the  \T ,  II,  54;,  who  says  that  in  itself  lunnikox 
could  denote  a  rabbi,  quoting  Ambrosiaster,  "Because 
Zenas  had  been  of  this  profession  in  the  synagogue. 
Paul  calls  him  by  this  name."  But  Zahn  gives  his  own 
opinion  that  "since  the  Jewish  scribe  who  became  a 
Christian,  by  that  very  act  separated  himself  from  the 
rabbinic  body,  and  since  the  retention  of  rabbinic 
methods  and  ways  of  thinking  was  anything  but  a  recom- 
mendation, in  Paul's  eyes  (1  Tim  1  7).  Zenas  is  here 
characterized,  not  as  icui*  (Mosaicae),  tlm-tor,  but  as 
juris  pi'i-itua.  The  word  denotes  not  an  oflice,  but  usu- 
ally the  practical  lawyer,  through  whose  assistance 
e.g'.  a  will  is  made,  or  a  lawsuit  carried  on.  Plutarch 
applies  this  name  to  the  renowned  jurist  Mucius  .Scae- 
vola." 

The  ordinary  meaning  seems  preferable,  which 
sees  in  Zenas  one  who  previous  to  his  conversion 
had  been  a  Jewish  rabbi. 

It  is  not  certain  where  Paul  was  when  he  wrote 

the  Ep.  to  Titus.     But  he  directs  Titus  to  come  to 

him  to  Xicopolis,  where  he  had  resolved 

2.  Paul's        to    spend    the    ensuing    winter.     And 
Wishes  he  adds  the  injunction  that  he  desires 
regarding       him  to  "bring  Zenas  the  lawyer  and 
Zenas  Apollos" — Paul's  old  friend  from  Alex- 
andria— with    him    "on   their  journey 

diligently,  that  nothing  be  wanting  unto  them" 
(AV).  This  may  mean  that  Paul  wished  to  have 
Zenas  and  Apollos  with  him  at  Xicopolis;  but,  on 
the  other  hand,  it  may  not  have  this  meaning.  For 
the  AV  in  translating  "bring"  is  in  error.  The  word 
signifies,  as  given  in  RV,  "set  forward"  on  their 
journey,  that  is,  furnish  them  with  all  that  they 
need  for  the  journey.  But  even  supposing  Paul  is 
not  instructing  Titus  to  bring  Zenas  and  Apollos 
to  Xicopolis — though  this  is  perhaps  what  he  means 
— yet  it  is  most  interesting  to  find  these  two  friends 
of 'the  apostle  mentioned  in  this  particular  way,  and 
esp.  at  a  time  so  near  to  the  close  of  his  life.  Paul 
was  unselfish  as  ever,  solicitous  that  Zenas  and 
Apollos  be  comfortably  provided  for  on  their  in- 
tended journey.  lie  is  full  of  affectionate  regard 
for  them,  interested  in  their  welfare  at  every  step; 
while  he  himself  is  far  distant  in  another  country, 
he  remembers  them  with  tender  and  sympathetic 
friendship.  Doubtless  the  two  friends  reciprocated 
his  affect  ion. 

Xot hing  more  is  known  of  Zenas  than  is  contained 
in  this  passage.  Joiix  RrTMEiu-viu) 


Zend-Avesta 
Zeph,  Book  of 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3144 


ZEND-AVESTA,     zend-a-ves'ta.     See     PKKSIAN 
RELIGION;  ZOKOASTKIANISM. 

ZEPHANIAH,  /el'-a-nl'a   (H^ES  ,  fphanyah, 
'.i"PIE2£  ,  Qephanyahu,  "Jeh  hath  treasured'  ): 

(1)  The  prophet.     See  ZKPIIANIAH,  BOOK  OF. 

(2)  A   Levite  or  priest    (1   Ch  6  oO  [Ileb  6  '2\}\ 
called    in    some    genealogies    "Triel"     (.1  Ch  6  24;    i 
15  5.11). 

(3)  Judaean    father    or    fathers    of    various    con- 
temporaries   of    Zechariah,     the    prophet     (.Zee  6 
10.14). 

(4)  A  priest,  the  second  in  rank  in  the  days  of 
Jeremiah.      lie    was    a    leader    of    the    "patriotic" 
party  which  opposed   Jeremiah.      Nevertheless,   he 
was   sent    to   the   prophet    as   a   messenger  of    King 
Zedekiah    when     Nebuchadnezzar    was    about     to 
attack  the  city   (Jer  21    1)   and  at   other  crises   (Jer 
37  :!:  cf  29  2.V2<>;  2  K  25   IS).     That  he  continued 
to  adhere  to  the  policy  of  resistance  against    Bab 
authority  is  indicated  by  tin-  fact  that  he  was  amona; 
the  leaders  of  Israel  taken  by  Nelni/aradan  before 
the  king  of  Babylon,  and  killed  at  Riblah  (2   K  25 
IS  ||  Jer  52  21).  NATHAN   ISAACS 

ZEPHANIAH,  APOCALYPSE  OF:  A  (probably 
Jewish  apocrvphal  work  of  this  name  is  mentioned 
in   the  Sticho/niirij  of  Nicephorus  and   another  list    ; 
practically  identical  with  this;  a  quotation  from  it  is   j 
also  preserved  by  Clement  of  Alexandria  iStroni..  v. 
11.  77).      Dr.  Charles  thinks  this  indicates  a  Chris- 
tian   revision    (Enc    liril,     II.    art.    "Apocalypse");    ; 
ot  hers  suppose  it  to  point  to  a  Christian,  rather  than    ' 
a  Jewish,  origin.     Se  •  Schiirer,  //,//',  div  11.  vol  III, 
pp.  120-27,  1.T2;  f/./P.  Ill,  M07-0'). 

ZEPHANIAH,  BOOK  OF: 

I.     THK    ACTIIOH 

1.  Name 

2.  Ancestry 
:<.    Life 

II.     TIMI: 

1.  Date 

2.  Political    Situation 

',<,.   Moral  and  Religious  Conditions 

BOOK 

1.  Contents 

2.  Integrity 


III. 
IV. 


1.  The  Day  of  Jehovah 

2.  I'nivcrsalism 

H.   Messianic  Prophecy 
LITEKATUKE 

/.    The  Author.  —  The  name  "Zephaniah"  (TTIEjT  , 

("/>//>!  nijCih;     'Zotjiovia.';.  Sophonias),   which    is    borne 

by   three  other  men   mentioned   in   the 

1.  Name         ()T,    means   ''Jell   hides,"   or   "Jeh    has 

hidden"  or  "treasured."  ''It  sug- 
gests," says  (i.  A.  Smith,  "the  prophet's  birth  in 
the  killing  time  of  Manasseh"  ('2  K  21  10). 

The  ancestry  of  the  prophet  is  carried  back  four 

generations  (1  1),  which  is  unusual  in  theOT  (cf  Isa 

1  1;    Hos  1   lj;    hence   it    is   thought, 

2.  Ancestry  not    without    reason    (Eiselen,    Minor 

Pro/tliftx,  ">()")),  that,  the  last  -mentioned 
ancestor,  Hex.ckiah,  must  have  been  a  prominent 
man  —  indeed,  no  other  than  King  He/okiah  of 
Judah,  the  contemporary  of  Isaiah  and  Alicah.  If 
Zephaniah  was  of  royal  blood,  his  condemnation  of 
the  royal  princes  (1  S)  becomes  of  great  interest. 
In  a  similar  manner  did  Isaiah,  who  in  all  prob- 
ability was  of  royal  blood,  condemn  without  hesita- 
tion the  shortcomings  and  vices  of  the  rulers  and 
the  court.  An  ancient  tradition  declares  that  Z. 
was  of  the  tribe  of  Simeon,  which  would  make  it 
impossible  for  him  to  be  of  royal  blood;  but  the 
origin  and  value  of  this  tradition  are  uncertain. 

Zephaniah  lived  in  Judah;    that   he  lived  in  Jerus 
is  made  probable  by  the  statement  in  1  4,  'T  will 


cut    off   ....  from   tliix  place,"  as  well  as  by  his 
intimate  knowledge  of  the  topography  of  the  city 

(1  10.11).  For  how  long  he  continued 
3.  Life  his  prophetic  activity  we  do  not  know, 

but  it  is  not  improbable  that,  as  in  the 
case  of  Amos,  his  public  activity  was  short,  and 
that,  after  delivering  his  message  of  judgment  in 
connection  with  a  great  political  crisis,  he  retired 
to  private  life,  though  his  interest  in  reforms  may 
have  continued  (2  K  23  2). 

//.  Time.  -The  title  (1  1)  places  the  prophetic- 
activity  of  Zephaniah  somewhere  within  the  reign 

of  Josiah,  that  is,  between  03<)  and  OOS 

1.  Date  BC.      Most   scholars  accept  this  state- 

ment as  historically  correct.  The  most 
important  exception  is  E.  Koenig  (Einl,  2f>2  IT), 
who  places  it  in  the  decade  following  the  death 
of  Josiah.  Koenig's  arguments  are  altogether  in- 
conclusive, while  all  the  internal  evidence  points 
toward  the  reign  of  Josiah  as  the  period  of  Zepha- 
niah's  activity.  Can  the  ministry  of  the  prophet 
be  more  definitely  located  within  the  ',i\  years  of 
Josiah?  The  latter's  reign  falls  naturally  into  two 
parts,  separated  by  the  great  reform  of  021.  Does 
the  work  of  Zephaniah  belong  to  the  earlier  or  the 
later  period? 

The  more  important  arguments  in  favor  of  the  later 
period  arc:  (a)  1)1  28  29 . 30  is  quoted  in  Zeph  1  i:-!.  !.">.  1  7. 
in  a  manner  which  shows  that  the  former  hook  was 
well  known,  but.  according  to  the  modern  view,  the 
Deutcronomic  Code  was  not  known  until  021,  because 
it  was  lost  (2  K  22  8).  (.'•)  The  "remnant  of  Baal" 
(1  4>  points  to  a  period  when  much  of  the  Baal-worship 
had  been  removed,  which  means  subsequent  to  021. 
(c)  The  condemnation  of  the  "kind's  sons"  (1  S)  pre- 
supposes that  at  the  time  of  the  utterance  they  had 
reached  the  atre  of  moral  responsibility;  this  awiin  points 
to  the  later  period.  These  arguments  are  inconclusive: 
(«)  Then-semblances  between  1H  and  Zeph  are  of  such  a 
general  character  that  dependence  of  either  passage  on 
the  other  is  improbable.  (/>)  The  expression  in  1  4 
bears  an  interpretation  which  made  its  use  quite  appro- 
priate before  021  (Kiselen.  Minor  I'ruplu-tx.  f>OX).  (,•; 
"Kind's  sons"  may  be  equivalent  to  "royal  princes." 
referring  not  to  Josiah's  children  at  all.  The  last  two 
objections  lose  all  force  if  the  LXX  readings  are  accepted 
Cl'-t,  "names  of  Baal";  1  S,  "  hnu.ie  of  the  king"). 

On  the  other  hand,  there  are  several  considera- 
tions pointing  to  the  earlier  date:  (a)  The  youth  of 
the  king  would  make  it  easy  for  the  royal  princes 
to  go  to  the  excesses  condemned  in  1  <S.(J.  (l>)  The 
idolatrous  practices  condemned  by  Zephaniah  (1 
;j-">)  are  precisely  those  abolished  in  (121.  (c)  The 
temper  described  in  1  12  is  explicable  before  021 
and  after  t  he  deal  h  of  Josiah  in  OOS,  but  not  between 
021  and  (HIS,  when  religious  enthusiasm  was  wide- 
spread. (//,)  Only  the  earlier  part  of  Josiah's  reign 
furnishes  a  suitable-  occasion  for  the  prophecy. 
Evidently  at  the  time  of  its  delivery  an  enemy  was 
threatening  the  borders  of  Judah  and  of  the  sur- 
rounding nations.  But  the  only  foes  of  Judah  during 
the  latter  part  of  the  7th  cent,  meeting  all  the  con- 
ditions are  the  Scythians,  who  swept  over  Western 
Asia  about  02")  BC.  At  the  time  the  prophecy  was 
delivered  their  advance  against  Egypt  seems  to 
have  been  still  in  the  future,  but  imminent  (1  14); 
hence  the  prophet's  activity  may  be  placed  between 
0:>()  and  02."),  perhaps  in  020.  If  this  date  is  cor- 
rect, Zephaniah  and  Jeremiah  began  their  minis- 
tries in  the  same  year. 

Lit  tie  can  be  said  about  the  political  conditions 

in  Judah  during  the  reign  of  Josiah,  because  the 

Bib.  books  are  silent,  concerning  them. 

2.  Political    Josiah   seems   to   have  remained  loyal 
Situation        to  his  Assyr  lord  to  the  very  end,  even 

when  the  latter's  prestige  had  begun 
to  wane,  and  this  loyalty  cost  him  his  life  (2  K 
23  29).  As  already  suggested,  the  advance  of  the 
Scythians  furnished  the  occasion  of  the  prophecy. 
Many  questions  concerning  these  Scythians  remain 
still  unanswered,  but  this  much  is  clear,  that  they 


3145 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zend-Avesta 
Zeph,  Book  of 


wore  :i  non-Sem  race1  of  barbarians,  which  swept  in 
great  hordes  over  Western  Asia  during  the  7th  cent. 
BC  (see  SCYTHIANS).  The  prophet,  looked  upon 
the  Scythians  as  the  executioners  of  the  Divine 
judgment  upon  his  sinful  countrymen  and  upon 
the  surrounding  nations;  and  he  saw  in  the  coining 
of  the  mysterious  host  the  harbinger  of  the  day 
of  Jeh. 

The  Book  of  Zeph,  the  early  discourses  of  Jer, 
and  2  K  21-23  furnish  a  vivid  picture  of  the  social, 
moral,  and  religious  conditions  in 
3.  Moral  Judah  at  the  time  Zephaniah  prophe- 
and  Reli-  sied.  Social  injustice  and  moral  cor- 
gious  Con-  ruption  were  widespread  (3  1.3.7). 
ditions  Luxury  and  extravagance  might  be 

seen  on  every  hand;  fortunes  were 
heaped  up  by  oppressing  the  poor  (1  8.9).  The 
religious  situation  was  equally  bad.  The  reac- 
tion under  Manasseh  came  near  making  an  end  of 
Jeh-worship  (2  K  21).  Amon  followed  in  the  foot- 
steps of  his  father,  and  the  outlook  was  exceedingly 
dark  when  Josiali  came  to  the  throne.  Fortunately 
the  young  king  came  under  prophetic  influence 
from  the  beginning,  and  soon  undertook  a  religious 
reform,  which  reached  its  culmination  in  the  18th 
year  of  his  reign.  When  Zcphaniah  preached,  this 
reform  was  still  in  the  future.  The  Baalim  were 
still  worshipped,  and  the  high  places  were  flourish- 
ing (1  4);  the  hosts  of  heaven  were  adored  upon  the 
housetops  (1  5);  a  half-hearted  Jeh-worship,  which 
in  reality  was  idolatry,  was  widespread  (1  5);  great 
multitudes  had  turned  entirely  from  following  Jeh 
(1  6).  When  the  cruel  Manasseh  was  allowed  to 
sit  undisturbed  upon  the  throne  for  more  than  50 
years,  many  grew  skeptical  and  questioned  whether 
Jeh  was  taking  any  interest  in  the  affairs  of  the 
nation;  they  began  to  say  in  their  hearts,  ''Jeh 
will  not  do  good,  neither  will  he  do  evil"  (1  12). 
Conditions  could  hardly  be  otherwise,  when  the 
religious  leaders  had  become  misleaders  (3  4).  The 
few  who,  amid  the  general  corruption,  remained 
faithful  would  be  insufficient  to  avert  the  awful 
judgment  upon  the  nation,  though  they  themselves 
might  be  "hid  in  the  day  of  Jeh's  anger"  (2  3). 

///.  The  Book.  — The'Book  of  Zeph  falls  nat  urally 
into  two  parts  of  unequal  length.  The  first  part 
(1  2 — 3  8)  contains,  almost  exclusively, 
1.  Contents  denunciations  and  threats;  the  second 
(3  9-20),  a  promise  of  salvation  and 
glorification.  The  prophecy  opens  with  the  an- 
nouncement of  a  world  judgment  (1  2.3),  which 
will  be  particularly  severe  upon  Judah  and  Jerus, 
because  of  idolatry  (vs  4-0).  The  ungodly  nobles 
will  suffer  most,  because  they  are  the  leaders  in  crime 
(vs  S.'.)).  The  judgment  is  imminent  (ver  7);  when 
it  arrives  there  will  be  wailing  on  every  hand  (vs  10. 
11).  No  one  will  escape,  even  the  indifferent  skep- 
tics will  be  aroused  (vs  12.13).  In  the  closing  verses 
of  ch  1,  the  imminence  and  terribleness  of  the  day 
of  Jeh  are  emphasized,  from  which  there  can  be  no 
escape,  because  Jeh  has  determined  to  make  a  "ter- 
rible end  of  all  them  that  dwell  in  the  land"  (vs  14- 
18).  A  way  of  escape  is  offered  to  the  meek;  if 
they  seek  Jeh,  they  may  be  "hid  in  the  day  of  Jeh" 
(2  1-3).  Zeph  2  4-1")  contains  threats  upon  5  na- 
tions, Philistia  (vs  4-7),  Moab  and  Amrnon  (vs  8- 
11),  Ethiopia  (ver  12),  Assyria  (vs  13-15).  In  3  1 
the  prophet  turns  once  more  to  Jerus.  Leaders,  bot  h 
civil  and  religious,  and  people  are  hopelessly  cor- 
rupt (vs  1-4),  and  continue  so  in  spite  of  Jell's  many 
attempts  to  win  the  city  back  to  purity  (vs  5-7); 
hence  the  judgment  which  will  involve  all  nations 
has  become  inevitable  (ver  8).  A  remnant  of  the 
nations  and  of  Judah  will  escape1  and  find  rest  and 
peace  in  Jeh  (vs  9-13).  The  closing  section  (vs  14 - 
20)  pictures  the  joy  and  exaltation  of  the  redeemed 
daughter  of  Zion. 


The  authenticity  of  ever}''  verse;  in  chs  2  and  3,  and 
of  several  verses  in  ch  1,  has  been  questioned  by 
one  or  more  scholars,  but  the  passages 
2.  Integrity  rejected  or  questioned  with  greatest 
persistency  an;  2  1-3.4-15  (esp.  vs  8- 
11);  3  9.10.14-20.  The  principal  objection  to  2 
1-3  is  the  presence  in  2  3  of  the  expressions  "meek 
of  the  earth,"  and  "seek  meekness."  It  is  claimed 
that  "meek"  and  "meekness"  as  religious  terms  an; 
post-exilic.  There  can  be  no  question  that  the 
words  occur  more  frequently  in  post -exilic  psalms 
and  proverbs  than  in  preexilic  writings,  but  it 
cannot  be  proved,  or  even  shown  to  be  probable, 
that  the  words  might,  not  have  been  used  in  Zepha- 
niah'sday  (cf  Ex  10  3;  Nu  12  3;  Isa  2  Off;  Alic 
6  8).  A  second  objection  is  seen  in  the  difference 
of  tone  between  these  verses  and  ch  1.  The  latter, 
from  beginning  to  end,  speaks  of  the  terrors  of 
judgment;  2  1-3  weakens  this  by  offering  a  way 
of  escape.  But  surely,  judgment  cannot  have  been 
the  last  word  of  the  prophets;  in  their  thought, 
judgment  always  serves  a  disciplinary  purpose. 
They  are  accustomed  to  offer  hope;  to  a  remnant. 
Hence  2  1-3  seems  to  form  the  necessary  comple- 
tion of  ch  1. 

The  objections  against  2  ^1-15  as  a  whole  are  equally 
inconclusive.  For  vs  13-15.  a  date  preceding  the  fall 
of  Xineveh  seems  most  suitable.  The  threat  against 
Philistia  (vs  4-7)  also  is  quite  intelligible  in  the  days  of 
Zcphaniah,  for  the  Scythians  passed  right  through  the 
Phili  territory.  If  Ethiopia  stands  for  Egypt,  ver  12 
cati  easily  be  accounted  for  as  coining  from  Zephaniah, 
for  the  enemies  who  were  going  along  the  Mediterranean 
coast  must  inevitably  reach  Egypt.  But  if  it  is  insisted 
upon  that  the  reference  is  to  Ethiopia  proper,  again  no 
difliculty  exists,  for  in  speaking  of  a  world  judgment 
Zephaniah  might  mention  Ethiopia  as  the  representative 
of  the  far  south.  Against  vs  8—11  the  following  objec- 
tions are  raised:  (<i)  Moab  and  Animon  were  far  removed 
from  the  route  taken  by  the  Scythians.  (I/)  The  "re- 
proaches" of  2  8.10  presuppose  the  destruction  of  Jerus 
(E/k  25  3.0.8).  (,•)  The  attitude  of  the  prophet  toward 
Judah  (vs  9.10)  is  the  exact,  opposite  of  that  expressed  in 
ch  1.  (il)  The  klnCih  meter,  which  predominates  in  the 
rest  of  the  section,  is  absent  from  vs  8-11.  (<•')  Ver  12  is 
the  natural  continuation  of  ver  9.  These  five  arguments 
are  by  no  means  conclusive:  (a)  The  prophet  is  announ- 
cing a  world  judgment.  Could  this  be  executed  by  the 
Scythians  if  they  confined  themselves  to  the  territory 
along  the  Mediterranean  Sea?  (b)  Is  it  true  that  the 
"reproaches"  of  2  8.10  presuppose  the  destruction  of 
Jerus?  (c)  The  promises  in  2  7.8-10  are  only  to  a 
remnant,  which  presupposes  a  judgment  such  as  is  an- 
nounced in  ch  1.  (il)  Have  we  a  right  to  demand  con- 
sistency in  the  use  of  a  certain  meter  in  oratory,  and,  if 
so,  may  not  the  apparent  inconsistency  be  due  to  cor- 
ruption of  the  text,  or  to  a  later  expansion  of  an  authentic 
oracle  ?  (e)  Vs  8-11  can  be  said  to  interrupt  the  thought 
only  if  it  is  assumed  that  the  prophet  meant  to  enumerate 
the  nations  in  the  order  in  which  the  Scythians  naturally 
would  reach  their  territory.  From  Philistia  they  would 
naturally  pass  to  Egypt.  But  is  this  assumption  war- 
ranted? While  the  objections  against  the  entire  para- 
graph are  inconclusive,  it  cannot  be  denied  that  ver  12 
seems  the  natural  continuation  of  ver  9,  and  since  vs 
10  and  11  differ  in  other  respects  from  those  preceding, 
suspicion  of  the  originality  of  these  two  verses  cannot  be 
suppressed. 

Zeph  3  1-8  is  so  similar  to  ch  1  that,  its  originality 
cannot  be  seriously  quest  ioned,  but,  vs  1-8  carry  with 
them  vs  9-13,  which  describe  the  purifying  effects 
of  the  judgment  announced  in  vs  1-8.  The  present 
text  of  ver  10  may  be  corrupt,  but  if  properly 
emended  there  remains  insufficient  reason  for  ques- 
tioning vs  10  and  11.  The  authenticity  of  3  14-20 
is  more  doubtful  than  that  of  any  other  section  of 
Zeph.  The  buoyant  tone  of  the  passage  forms  a 
marked  contrast  to  the  somber,  quiet  strain  of  vs 
11-13;  the  judgments  upon  Judah  appear  to  be  in 
the  past;  vs  18-20  seem  to  presuppose  a  scattering 
of  the  people  of  Judah,  while  the  purifying  judgment 
of  vs  11-13  falls  upon  the  people  in  their  own  land; 
hence  there  is  much  justice  in  Davidson's  remark 
that  "the  historical  situation  presupposed  is  that  of 
Isa  40  if."  On  the  other  hand,  it  must  be  borne 
in  mind  that  the  passage  is  highly  poetic,  that  it 
presents  an  ideal  picture  of  the  future,  in  the  drawing 


Zephath 
Zerubbabel 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


31-16 


of  which  imagination  must  have  played  some  part, 
and  it  may  he  difficult  to  assert  that  the  composi- 
tion of  this  poem  was  entirely  beyond  the  power  of 
Zephaniah's  enlightened  imagination.  But  while 
the  bare  possibility  of  Zephaniah's  authorship  may 
be  admitted,  it  is  not  impossible  that  3  14-120  con- 
tains a  "new  song  from  God,"  added  to  the  utter- 
ances of  Zephaniah  at  a  period  subsequent  to  the 
fall  of  Jerus. 

IV.  Teaching.  —  The  teaching  of  Zephaniah  closely 
resembles  that  of  the  earlier  prophetic  books.  Jeh 
is  the  Clod  of  the  universe,  a  (lod  of  righteousness 
and  holiness,  who  expects  of  His  worshippers  a  life 
in  accord  with  His  will.  Israel  are  His  chosen  people, 
but  on  account  of  rebellion  they  must  suffer  severe 
punishment.  Wholesale  conversion  seems  out  of 
the  question,  but  a  remnant  may  escape,  to  be 
exalted  among  the  nations.  He  adds  little,  but 
attempts  with  much  moral  and  spiritual  fervor  to 
impress  upon  his  contemporaries  the  fundamental 
truths  of  the  religion  of  Jeh.  Only  a  few  points 
deserve  special  mention. 

Earlier  prophets  had  spoken   of  the  day  of  Jeh; 

Amos  (5  18-20)  had  described  it  in  language  similar 

to  that  employed  by  Zephaniah;   but 

1.  The  Day  the  latter  surpasses  all  his  predecessors 
of  Jehovah    in   the  emphasis  he  places  upon   this 

terrible  manifestation  of  Jeh  (see 
ESCHATOLOGY  OF  THE  OT).  His  entire  teaching 
centers  around  this  day;  and  in  the  Book  of  Zeph 
we  find  the  perms  of  the  apocalyptic  visions  which 
become  so  common  in  later  prophecies  of  an  escha- 
tological  character.  Concerning  this  day  he  says 
(<i)  that  it  is  a  day  of  terror  (1  15),  (h)  it  is  immi- 
nent (1  14),  (c)  it  is  a  judgment  for  sin  (1  17),  ('/) 
it  falls  upon  all  creation  (1  2.:)>;  2  4-15;  3  S), 
(V)  it  is  accompanied  by  great  convulsions  in  Nature 
(1  15),  (/)  a  remnant  of  redeemed  Hebrews  and 
foreigners  will  escape  from  its  terrors  (2  3;  3  9-1  3j. 
The  vision  of  the  book  is  world-wide.  The  ter- 
rors of  the  day  of  Jeh  will  fall  upon  all.  In  the  same 
manner  from  all  nations  converts  will 

2.  Univer-     be  won  to  Jeh    (3  9.10).     These  \\ill 
salism  not    be    compelled    to   come   to    Jerus 

to  worship  Jeh  (Tsa  2  2;  Mic  4  1); 
they  may  worship  Him  ''every  one  from  his  place" 
(2  11),  which  is  a  step  in  the  direction  of  the  utter- 
ance of  Jesus  in  Jn  421. 

The  Messianic  King  is  not  mentioned  by  Zephaniah. 

Though  lie  draws  a  sublime  picture  of  the  glories  of  the 

Messianic    a  ire    (3   14-20),    there    is    not    a 

3.  Mes-  '\vord   concerning   the   person   of   the    Mes- 

sianic King.      Whatever  is  done  is  accom- 

plished by  Jell  Himself. 
Prophecy  LITKKATI-IU:.  —  Comms.    on    the    Minor 

Prophets  by  1C  \vald,  Pusey,  Keil,  Orelli, 
G.  A.  Smith  (Expositor's  Bibb);  Driver  (New  Cent.}; 
Eiselen;  A.  H.  Davidson.  Comm.  mi  Xufi,  lint,,  ,ni<l  /.,  />h 
(Ciimhridae  liibli-);  A.  F.  Kirkpatrick,  Doctrint  of  the 
]'r«i>/ti/x;  Kiselen,  Projtlifni  and  tin-  l'rt>i>/it  ?.<;  F.  AY. 
Farrar,  "Minor  Prophets,"  Men  of  the  Bihl,  ;  S.  K.  Driver, 
LOT;  I1DB,  art.  "Zeph,  Book  of";  EU,  art.  "Zeph." 

F.   C.   EISKLEX 
ZEPHATH,  ze'fath.     See  HOKMAII. 


ZEPHATHAH,  zef'a-tha,  VALLEY  OF 
nriE?  ,  (/c'fphuthuh;  LNN  Kara  (3oppdv,  kntd  borrdn, 
reading  npDS  ,  pphondh,  instead  of  HPS?  ,  fphd- 
thah):  This  is  the  place  where  Asa  met  and  defeated 
the  Ethiopians  under  Zerah  (2  Ch  14  10).  It  is  said 
to  be  at  Mareshah.  No  name  resembling  this  has 
been  recovered  there.  Possibly,  therefore,  the  LXX 
rendering  is  right,  "in  the  ravine  to  the  N.  of  Mare- 
shah."  In  that  case  the  battle  may  have  been 
fought  in  Wtidy  d-\\fr<n/j. 

ZEPHI,  ze'fl,  ZEPHO,  ze'fd  pB2  .  f/>/,7,  perhaps 
"gaze,"  or  "gazing,"  in  1  (  'h  1  31  >;  1S2  ,  r''/tho. 
the  same  meaning  in  Gen  36  11.15):  A  duke  of 


Edom.  LXX  has  Sw^dp,  Sophar,  which  Skinner 
((Hen,  431)  says  may  be  the  original  of  Job's  kind 
friend.  In  Gen  36  43  LXX  has  Za0we£,  Zaphoci 
(  =  1E2,  i.e.  Zepho),  for  Iram.  Skinner  holds  it 
probable  that  the  two  names,  Zepho  and  Irani,  were 
in  the  original  text,  thus  making  the  number  12 
(cf  Lagarde,  Sept-Stud.,  II,  10,  1.  17K;  37,  1.  270; 
Nestle,  Margin..,  12).  Luc.  has  I,u<pd.p,  Sop/tar,  in 
Gen  36  11.15;  2e7r0oi*T7,  Sepphoue,  in  1  Ch  1  37, 
and  2a0unV,  Saphoin,  in  Gen  36  43. 

DAVID  FHAXCIS  ROBERTS 
ZEPHON,  ze'fon.     See  Zii-mox. 

ZEPHONITES,  ze'fon-Its,  ze>fo'mts  ( ^ISSn  , 
ha-gephonl;  6  2ac|>u>v£,  h<>  Saphoni,  A  omits):  A 
family  of  Gadites  descended  from  Zephon  (Nu  26 
15),  who  is  called  "Ziphion"  in  Gen  46  1.6. 

ZER,  zer,  zer  (12  ,  qcr;  in  LXX  the  verse  [Josh  19 
35]  reads  Kal  ai  ir6\«is  rei^-ripeis  TUJV  Tvpitov,  K.T.\., 

L'n'i  /mi  //olii.-:  ii  iel/en  As1  ton  Tur'/on,  which  implies  a 
Ileb  text  with  D'HSTH ,  fid-ranni,  "Tyrians";  this 
must  be  an  error):  One  of  the  fortified  cities  in 
Naphtali,  named  between  Ziddim  (llatiln)  and 
Hammath  (el-llamineh,  S.  of  Tiberias).  If  the  text 
is  correct,  it  must  have  lain  on  the  slopes  W.  of  the 
Sea  of  Galilee.  It  is  not  identified. 

ZERAH,  ze'ra  (HPT,  zcrah,  meaning  uncertain): 

(1)  In  Gen  38  30;  '46  12;   Nu  26  20;   Josh  7  1. 
1S.21;   22  20;    1  Ch  2  4.6;   9  (>;    Neh  11  24;    Mt 
1  3,  younger  twin-son  of  Judah  and  Tamar,  and  an 
ancestor  of  Achan.     In  Nu  26  20;    Josh  7  17  f  he 
is  the  head  of  the  Zerahites  (also  1  Ch  27  11.13). 
AV  has  "Zarah"  in   Gen  38  30;    46  12,  and  "Zar- 
liites"  for  "Zerahites"  in  Nu,  Josh  and  1  Ch.     See 
Curtis  (Chron.,  84  f)  for  identification  of  Ezrahite 
with  Zerah  it  e. 

(2)  Edomites:     (a)    an    Edomite    chief     (Gen  36 
13.17;    1  Ch  1  37);    (b)  father  of  an  Edomite  king 
(Gen  36  33;    1  Ch  1  44). 

(3)  Levites:     (,t)    1  Ch  6  21    (Heb  ver  6);     (b) 
1  Ch  6  41  (II eb  ver  20). 

(4)  Head  of  the  Zerahites  (Nu  26   13,  AV  "Zar- 
hites";    1   Ch  4  24).      In    Nu  26   13="Zohar"    of 
Gen  46  10;  Ex  6  15.     See  ZOIIAH,  (2). 

(5)  Cushite  king  (2  Ch  14  9).     See  next  art. 

DAVID  FHANTIS  ROBERTS 

ZERAH  (THE  ETHIOPIAN)  p£l3n  JTYT ,  zcrah 
Jiii-lcilslil  [2  Ch  14  9J;  Zdp€,  Zdrc):  A  generation 
ago  the  entire  story  of  Zerah's  conquest  of  Asa, 
coming  as  it  did  from  a  late  source  (2  Ch  14  9-15), 
was  regarded  as  "apocryphal":  "If  the  incredi- 
bilities are  deducted  nothing  at  all  is  left"  (VVell- 
hausen,  Prolegomena  to  the  History  of  Israel,  207, 
20S);  but  most  modern  scholars,  while  accepting 
certain  textual  mistakes  and  making  allowance  for 
customary  oriental  hyperbole  in  description,  accept 
this  as  an  honest  historical  narrative,  "nothing" 
in  the  Egvp  inscriptions  being  "inconsistent"  with 
it  (Nicol  in  Bl);  and  cf  Savce,  IICM,  3(>2-(>4).  The 
name  "Zerah"  is  a  "very  likely  corruption"  of  "Usar- 
kon"  (JJ-Serdk-on),  which  it  closely  resembles  (see 
Petrie,  Eyypt  and  Israel,  74),  and  most  writers  now 
identify  Zerah  with  Usarkon  II,  though  the  Egyp 
records  of  this  particular  era  are  deficient  and  some 
competent  scholars  still  hold  to  Usarkon  I  (Wiede- 
mann,  Petrie,  McCurdy,  etc).  The  publication 
by  Naville  (1X91)  of  an  inscription  in  which  Usar- 
kon II  claims  to  have  invaded  "Lower  and  Upper 
Palestine"  seemed  to  favor  this  Pharaoh  as  the 
victor  over  Asa;  but  the  chronological  question  is 
difficult  (Eighth  Memoir  of  (lie,  E<mp  Exploration 
Fund,  51).  The  title  "the  Cushite"  (Heb)  is  hard 
to  understand.  There  are  several  explanations 


3147 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zephath 
Zerubbabel 


possible.  (1)  VViedcinann  holds  that  (his  may  refer 
to  ;i  real  Ethiopian  prince,  who,  though  unrecorded 
in  I  he  monunienls,  may  have  been  reigning  at.  the 
Asa  era.  There  is  so  lit  tie  known  from  this  era 
"that  it  is  not  beyond  the  bounds  of  probability 
for  an  Ethiopian  invader  to  have  made  himself 
master  of  the  Nile  Valley  for  a  time''  (C/r.sr ///>///<; 
von  Alt-Ac(jyptcn,  1  ")">).  (2)  Recently  it  has  been 
the  fashion  to  refer  this  term  "Cushite"  to  some 
unknown  ruler  in  South  or  North  Arabia  (Winckler, 
Cheyne,  etc).  The  term  "Cushite"  permits  this, 
for  although  it  ordinarily  corresponds  to  ETHIOPIA 
(q.v.),  yet  sometimes  it  designates  the  tract  of  Arabia 
which  must  be  passed  over  in  order  to  reach  Ethiopia 
(Jeremias,  TheOT  in.  the  Li.yht  of  Ancient  East,  I,  2SO) 
or  perhaps  a  much  larger  district  (see  HI);  EH; 
Ilommel,  A1IT;  Winekler,  KAT,  etc).  This  view, 
however,  is  forced  to  explain  the  geographical  and 
racial  terms  in  the  narrative  differently  from  the 
ordinary  Bib.  usage  (see  Cheyne,  EH).  Dr.  W.  M. 
Flinders  Petrie  points  out  that,  according  to  the 
natural  sense  of  the  narrative,  this  army  must  have 
been  Egyp,  for  (n)  after  the  defeat  it.  fled  toward 
Egypt,  not  eastward  toward  Arabia;  (b)  the  cities 
around  Gerar  (probably  Egyp  towns  on  the  frontier 
of  Pal),  toward  which  they  naturally  fled  when 
defeated,  were  plundered;  (r)  the  invaders  were 
Cushim  and  Lubim  (Libyans),  and  this  could  only 
be  the  case  in  an  Egyp  army;  (<l)  Mareshah  is  a 
well-known  town  close  to  the  Egyp  frontier  (Ilt'xt  of 
E(/y/>t,  III,  242-43;  cf  Konig,  Funfneue  arab.Ltind- 
schaftsnamen  im  AT,  53-.r)7).  (3)  One  of  the  1'sar- 
kons  might  be  called  a  "Cushite"  in  an  anticipatory 
sense,  since  in  the  next  dynasty  (XXIII)  Egypt 
was  ruled  by  Ethiopian  kings. 

CAMDEN  M.  COBKK\ 

ZERAHIAH,  zer-a-lri'a  (JTTnT ,  z'W) //«//,  "Jeh 
hath  risen"  or  "come  forth";  LNX  Zapaid,  Znniid, 
with  variants): 

(1)  A  priest  of  the  line  of  Eleazar  (1   Ch  6  G.ol; 
Ezr  7  4). 

(2)  A  head  of  a  familv,  who  returned  with  Ezra 
from  Babylon   (Ezr  8  -\). 

ZERAHITES,  ze'ra-hits  (TH/in ,  ha-zarhl; 
B,  6  Zapcu,  ho  Znrui,  A,  6  Zapcui,  ho  Zaraci;  AV 
Zarhites) : 

(1)  A  family  of  Simconitcs  (Nu  26  13). 

(2)  Descendants  of  Zerah,  son  of  Judah  (Nu  26 
20).     To  this  family  Achan  belonged  (Josh  7  17), 
as  did  also  two  of  David's  captains  (1  Ch  27  11.13). 

ZERED,  ze'ral  (TIT,  zcrcdh;  B,  Zdper,  Zdrct,  A, 
ZdP€,  Zdrc;  AVZared[Nu  21  12]):  This  is  the  nahal 
or  "torrent  valley"  given  as  the  j)lace  where  Israel 
encamped  before  they  reached  the  Arnon  (Nu  21 
12).  In  Dt  2  13  f,  the  crossing  of  the  brook  Zered 
marks  the  end  of  the  38  years'  desert  wanderings. 
It,  has  often  been  identified  withWddyel-*Ahsa, 
which  runs  up  from  the  southeastern  corner  of  the 
Dead  Sea.  A  fatal  objection  to  this  is  that  the 
host  had  entered  the  wilderness  to  the  E.  of  Moab 
before  they  crossed  the  Zered  (Nu  21  11),  while 
Wdili/  (7-M/i.s-a  must  have  formed  the  southern 
boundary  of  Moab.  We  may  conclude  with  cer- 
tainty that  one  of  the  confluents  of  Wady  Kcrak 
is  intended,  but  which,  it  is  impossible  now  to 
say.  W.  EWING 

ZEREDAH,  zer'e-da,  ZEREDATH,  zer'e-dath, 
ZEREDATHA,  zer-e-da'tha,  ZERERAH,  zer'e-ra, 
ZERERATH,  zer'e-rath.  See  ZAKETHAX. 

ZERESH,  ze'resh  (flTlT ,  zcrcsh,  "gold,"  from  the 
Pers;  Swcrdpa,  ,S'as«ra) :  The  wife  of  Hainan  (Est 
6  10.14;  6  13),  the  vizier  of  Xerxes. 


ZERETH,  ze'relh  (PlIC  ,  ^arrtfi,  meaning  un- 
known): AJudahitell  Ch  4  7). 

ZERETH-SHAHAR,  ze'reth-sha'har  (r,12 
""irnL'n  ,  <;(!•(  th,  fid-xltiih'lr;  B,  SepeSd.  Kal  Seitov,  ,SVrr'/a 
kni  Xi'ioi/,  A,  2dp0  Kal  Sucop,  ftdrlh.  kul  Sioi')'.  A 
town  in  the  territory  of  Reuben,  "in  the  mount  of 
the  valley,"  named  with  Kiriathaim  and  Sibrnah 
(Josh  13  19).  Perhaps  in  the  name  IJnininat  c.s- 
/y/m,  attaching  to  the  hot  springs  near  Alachaerus, 
there  may  be  SOUK;  echo  of  (he  ancient  name;  but 
no  ident  ideation  is  possible. 

ZERI,  ze'rl  C1"!?  ,  C''/v,  meaning  unknown):  "Son" 
of  Jedut  him,  and  a  temple  musician  (I  Ch  25  3)  = 
"Izri"  of  ver  11,  which  should  be  read  here.  See 
Iziti. 

ZEROR,  ze'ror  O"HI£  ,  crror,  meaning  unknown; 
LXX  'Ape'S,  A  red,  Luc.,  2apd,  Sard):  An  ancestor 
of  Kish  and  King  Saul  (1  S  9  1).  See  Zuu,  (2). 

ZERUAH,  zP-roo'a  (nlT.T?  ,  fm'd//,  perhaps 
"leprous"):  Mother  of  King  Jeroboam  I  (1  K  11 
26),  LXX,  B  and  Luc;,  omit  the  name  in  11  20,  but 
the  long  LNX  after  MT  of  12  24  reads  (ver  246): 
"And  t  here  was  a  man  of  the  hill-count  ry  of  Ephraim, 
a  servant  of  Solomon,  and  his  name  was  Jeroboam, 
and  the  name  of  his  mother  was  Sareisa  [LXX 
Zapeicrd,  Sarcisd]  a  harlot."  See  ZAKETHAX. 

ZERUBBABEL,    zc-rub'a-bel    (322nT ,    ^ub- 

bdbhcl,  probably  a  transliteration  of  the  Bab  name 

Zcru-Btibili,  "seed  of  Babylon";  Zopo- 

1.  Name        $&$t\,  Zorobdbel):    Is  commonly  called 

the  son  of  Shealtiel  (Ezr  3  2.S;  6  2; 
Neh  12  1;  Hag  1  1.12.14;  Mt  1  12;  Lk  3  27);  but 
in  1  Ch  3  19  he  is  called  the  son  of  Pedaiah,  the 
brother  apparently  of  Shealtiel  (Salathiel)  and  the 
son  or  grandson  of  Jeconiah.  It  is  probable  that 
Shealtiel  had  no  children  and  adopted  Zerubbabel; 
or  that  Zerubbabel  was  his  levirate  son;  or  that, 
Shealtiel  being  childless,  Zerubbabel  succeeded  to 
the  rights  of  sonship  as  being  the  next  of  kin. 

Whatever  may  have  been  his  blood  relationship 

to  Jeconiah,  the  Scriptures  teach  that  Zerubbabel 

was  his  legal  successor,  of  the  3d  or 

2.  Family      4th    generation.     According    to    1  Ch 

3  19,  he  had  one  daughter,  Shelomith, 
and  seven  sons,  Meshullam,  Hananiah,  Hashubah, 
Ohel,  Berechiah,  Hasadiah  and  Jushab-hesed.  In 
Mt  1  13  he  is  said  to  have  been  the  father  of  Abiud 
(i.e.  Abi-hud).  As  it  is  the  custom  in  Arabia 
today  to  give  a  man  a  new  name  when  his  first  son 
is  born,  so  it  may  have  been,  in  this  case,  that 
Meshullam  was  the  father  of  Hud,  and  that  his 
name  was  changed  to  Abiud  as  soon  as  his  son  was 
named  Hud.  In  Lk  3  27,  the  son  of  Zerubbabel 
is  called  Rhesa.  This  is  doubtless  the  title  of  the 
head  of  the  captivity,  the  rcxh  gelfitlia,  and  would 
be  appropriate  as  a  title  of  Meshullam  in  his  ca- 
pacity as  the  official  representative  of  the  captive 
Jews.  That  Zerubbabel  is  said  in  the  NT  to  be  the 
son  of  Shealtiel  the  son  of  Neri  instead  of  Jeconiah 
may  be  accounted  for  on  the  supposition  that 
Shealtiel  was  the  legal  heir  or  adopted  son  of  Jeco- 
niah, who  according  to  Jer  36  30  was  apparently 
to  die  childless. 

It  has  been  shown  in  the  article  on  Sheshbazzar 
that  he  and  Zerubbabel  may  possibly  have  been  the 

same  person  and  that  the  name  may 

3.  Relation    have    been    Shamash-baii     (or    bun)- 
to  Shesh-       zer-Babili-usur.     It  seems  more  prob- 
bazzar  able,   however,  that  Sheshbazzar,  the 

prince  of  Judah,  was  governor  under 
Cyrus  and  that  Zerubbabel  was  governor  under 


Zeruiah 
Zimri 


Till-:  1XTKRXATIOXAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3148 


Darius.  The  former,  according  (o  K/r  1  S  and 
6  14-lt),  laid  the  I'omidat  ions,  and  the  latter  com- 
pleted the  building  of  t  he  temple  (K/r  2  2.t>S;  4  '2; 
Hag  lit;  Zee  4  9). 

All  that  is  known  certainly  about  Zcrubbabel  is 
found  in  the  canonical  books  ot  Zee,  Hag  and 
K/r-Xeh.  According  to  tliese  he  and 
4.  History  .leshua,  the  high  priest,  led  up  a,  band 
of  captives  from  Babylon  to  Jerus  and 
began  rebuilding  the  temple  in  the  second  year  of 
Darius  Hystaspis.  They  lirst  constructed  the  altar 
of  l)urnt  'offerings,  and  afterward  built  a  temple, 
usually  called  the  Second  'Temple,  much  inferior  in 
beauty  to  that  of  Solomon.  According  to.losand  the 
apocryphal  Hook  of  K/r  (1  Ksd  3,4),  Zeruhbabcl 
was  a  friend  of  Darius  Hystaspis,  having  success- 
fully competed  before  him  in  a  contest  whose  object 
was  to  determine  what,  was  the  strongest  tiling  in 
the  world  —wine,  kings,  women,  or  truth,  /erub- 
babel, having  demonstrated  that  truth  was  the 
mightiest,  of  all,  was  called  the  king's  "cousin,"  and 
was  granted  by  him  permission  to  go  up  to  .lerus 
and  to  build  the  temple,  /erubbabel  was  also 
made  a  governor  of  .lerus,  and  performed  also  the 
duties  of  the  tirxhulli<i,  an  oflicial  who  was  probably 
the  Pens  collector  of  taxes.  See  TIRSIIATHA. 

R.    DICK   WILSON 

ZERUIAH,  xe-roo-1'a,  /e-roo'ya  (~P'"I^  ,  q'nlyCth, 
rP^i,  q'r!  i  ijah  12  S  14  1;  16  10],  meaning  un- 
certain; SapovCa,  Karouia):  In  2  S  2  IS;  17  2.">; 
1  Ch  2  It),  and  elsewhere  where  tlie  names  Joab, 
Abishai,  occur.  According  to  1  Ch  2  Hi  a  sister  of 
David  and  mother  of  Joab,  Abishai  and  Asahel,  the 
two  former  being  always  referred  to  as  sons  of  Zeru- 
iah.  This  lat  tcr  fact  is  explained  by  some  as  point- 
ing to  a  type  of  marriage  by  which  the  children 
belonged  to  their  mother's  clan  (cf  Abimelech,  ,)gs 
8  ill  ;  9  1  IT);  by  others  as  being  due  to  her  husband's 
early  death;  and  again  as  a  proof  of  the  mother  in 
tliis' case  being  the  stronger  personality.  Kit  her  of 
the  last  two  reasons  may  be  the  correct  one,  and 
plenty  of  parallels  from  the  village  names  of  boys 
today  can  be  produced  to  illustrate  both  explana- 
tions. According  to  2  S  2  32,  her  husband  was 
buried  at  Bethlehem.  In  2  S  17  2.~>,  "Abigal  the 
daughter  of  Xahash"  is  said  to  be  her  sister.  See 
AmcAiL.  DAVID  FRANCIS  ROHKKTS 

ZETHAM,  /e'tham  (-PT ,  -ctliuni,  meaning  un- 
known): A  Oershonite  Levite  (1  Ch  23  S;  26  22). 
In  the  second  passage  Curt  is  holds  t  hat  "the  sons  of 
Jehieli"  is  a  gloss;  he  points  the  MT  to  read  "breth- 
ren" instead  of  "brother,"  and  so  has  "Jchiel  [ver 
22]  and  his  brethren,  /etham  and  Joel,  were  over  the 
treasures." 

ZETHAN,  /e'than  Or"1"  ,  zclhan,  perhaps  "olive 
tree"):  ABenjamite(l  Ch  7  10  >,  but  Curt  is  holds 
that  he  is  a  /ebulunite  (Citron.,  14")  IT). 

ZETHAR,  /e'thar  ("T"  ,  znliar;  Oppert,  K*t,  2.">, 
compares  Pers  sai/ar,  "conqueror";  see  HDH:  LXX 
'Apa/ra^d,  Al>iitiiz<l) '.  A  eunuch  of  Ahasuerus  (Kst 
1  10). 


ZEUS,  /us  (Zcvs,  Znh,  RVm;  RV  and  AV 
Jupiter):  The  supreme  god  of  Hellenic  theology, 
"king  of  gods  and  of  men."  In  ItiS  BC  Antiochus 
Kpiphanes,  "who  on  Cod's  altars  danced,"  bent 
upon  the  thorough  Helleni/ation  of  Judaea  and 
Jerus,  sent  "an  old  man  of  Athens"  (or  "Oeron  an 
Athenian,"  RVm)  to  pollute  the  sanctuary  in  the 
temple  at  Jerus  and  to  call  it  by  the  name  of  Jupiter 
Olympius,  and  that  at  Oeri/im  by  the  name  of 
Jupiter  Xenius  (2  Mace  6  1  IT).  Olympius,  from 
Mt.  Olympus,  the  home  of  the  gods,  is  the  favorite 


epithet  of  Zeus,  Zens  Olympius  being  to  the  Cr 
world  what  Jupiter  Capitolinus  was  to  the  Rom. 
The  same  Antiochus  commenced  the  splendid 
temple  of  Zeus  Olympius,  finished  under  Hadrian. 
Zeus  is  also  frequently  styled  Xenius  or  "Protector 
of  strangers"  (.1  u  />/iilcr  /nif<i>it<ilix)  in  classical  liter- 
ature. The  epithet  is  here  applied  because  the 
people  of  (ieri/im  -the  Samaritans  —  were  hospi- 
table, probably  an  ironical  statement  of  the  author 
(.cf  Lk  9  f)2f)'.  Zeus  is  also  in  Acts  14  12  f  RVm 
for  Jri'iTKit  i,q.v.  I.  S.  ANCI  s 

ZIA,  /I'a  (<  "'T  ,  zl"\  meaning  uncertain):  A  Cad- 
.ite.  possibly  the  name  of  a  Cadite  clan  (1  Ch  6  13). 

ZIBA,  xi'ba  (SITS.  <-7W/u'.  S22  ,  fiWin"  [2  S 
16  4«],  meaning  unknown;  Seipa,  tSW/xi)  :  A  former 
servant  or  ])robably  dependent  of  Saul's  house  (2  S 
9  1  IT),  who  was  brought  to  David  when  the  king 
inquired  if  there  was  not  a  member  of  Saul's  family 
that  he  could  show  kindness  to  let'  David's  oath  to 
Jonathan  in  1  S  20  HIT).  Z.  tells  David  of  Mephib- 
osheth  (Meribbaal),  Jonathan's  son,  who  is  there- 
upon taken  to  the  king  from  Lodebar,  K.  of  the 
Jordan,  and  given  Saul's  estate.  /.  is  also  bidden 
to  till  the  land  and  bring  in  its  produce,  and  "it. 
shall  be  food  for  thy  master's  son,"  according  to 
MT  in  2  S  9  106;  but  I.  XX  and  Luc.  have  a  better 
reading,  "thv  master's  household."  Mephibosheth 
himself  is  to  eat  at  David's  table.  /.  is  to  be  as- 
sisted in  this  by  his  sons  and  servants;  he  had  1") 
sons  and  20  servants  (.9  10). 

When  David  has  to  leave  Jerus  at  the  time  of 
Absalom's  revolt,  Z.  (2  S  16  1-4)  takes  two  asses 
for  members  of  the  king's  household  to  ride  on,  and 
200  loaves  and  100  clusters  of  raisins  as  provisions 
for  the  youths.  When  asked  where  Mephibosheth 
is,  he  accuses  his  master  of  remaining  behind  pur- 
poselv  in  hopes  that  his  father's  kingdom  would  be 
restored  to  him.  David  then  confers  upon  Z.  his 
master's  estate. 

After  Absalom's  death,  David  sets  out  to  return 
to  Jerus  from  Mahanaim,  K.  of  Jordan.  /.  with 
his  sons  and  servants,  as  we  are  told  in  a  parent  hesis 
in  2  S  19  IT.lSa  (Heb  vs  IS.  !<.)</),  by  means  of  a 
ferry-boat  goes  backward  and  forward  over  Jordan, 
and  thus  enables  the  king's  household  to  cross. 
But  he  has  wrongly  accused  his  master  of  treacher- 
ous lukewarmness  toward  David,  for  Mephibosheth 
meets  the  king  on  his  return  journev  to  Jerus  (2  S 
19  24-30  [Heb  vs  2.")  -31])  with  signs  of  grief.  When 
he  is  asked  why  he  had  not  joined  the  king  at  the 
time  of  the  latter's  flight,  he  answers  that  Z.  de- 
ceived him,  "for  thy  servant,  said  to  him.  Saddle  me 
[so  read  in  ver  20  (Heb  ver  27)  with  LXX  and  Syr 
for  MT  '1  will  have  saddled  me']  the  ass."  He 
then  accuses  /.  of  falsehood,  and  David  divides  the 
estate  between  the  two,  although  Mephibosheth  is 
quite  willing  that  /.  should  retain  the  whole  of  it. 
DAVID  FRANCIS  ROHKRTS 

ZIBEON,  x.ib'e-on  Cp."Il?  ,  f/'W/'o/(,  "hyena"; 
III'X,  '.).">;  Sept^tov,  Si'hcyoit):  A  llorite  chief  (Oen 
36  2.1  1.20.21.2'.);  I  Ch  1  3S.40);  he  is  called  the 
"Hivite"  in  Oen  36  2  where  "llorite"  should  be 
read  with  vs  20.29.  In  Oen  36  2.14  Anah  is  said 
to  be  "the  daughter  of  Zibeon,"  whereas  LXX,  Sam, 
Syr,  Luc.  have  "the  son  of  Z.";  cf  1  Ch  1  38.40, 
where  also  Anah  is  Z.'s  son. 


ZIBIA,  xib'i-a  (X^S  ,  qibhyd  ,  perhaps  "gazelle"): 
A  Benjamite  (1  Ch  8  9). 


ZIBIAH,  zib'i-a  0^32,  gibfiydh,  probably 
"ga/elle"):  A  woman  of  Beersheba,  mother  of 
King  Jehoash  (Joash)  of  Judah  (2  K  12  1  [Heb  ver 
2];  2  Ch  24  1,  BA  'A/3td,  MM). 


'AW.} 


THK  IXTKRXATIOXAL  STA.\T)AHI>  BIULK   KNCYCLOI' \\A)\ A 


Zeruiah 
Zimri 


ZICHRI,  xik'ri  <""*",  z  //:///•;,  meaning  uri'-'-rt  airi;  :  ZILLETHAI,  /il'/j-t.hJ,  xil-e't  ha  i  'T~-  ,  .,//•//,,;,;, 

(\>   Leviie.s:    O/;  gnmdsun  of   Koliath   T.x  6  21,  j   meaning  uncertain;  AVZilthai   : 

where  sonic   AV  <->ld    read    wrongly    "Zithri";;     "^  Mj    A   lienjamitc  M    (  'I,   8  20 

an    Asaphile    M    Ch   9    I.",,,    r;..ll«-l    "Zabdi"    in    Xeh  '         r2)    A     M:i.ri:is-:iU:    who    join---!     I>;ivi'l    at    Zil.bf/ 

11    17,    where    I,  XX    A    hits    /'//"'.    #".'"/•/'  --Ziehri,  d    Ch   12  20  [llcb  ver  21  j;. 
hut    I,  XX    I',  olln-r   names;        <•   Z.\nm,    M;;     (V;;    a 

descendant   of    Klie/.er    M    Ch   2G  2-V  ZILPAH,    /.il'p:i.     T.E"  ,    ,-;/7/,u//.    meaning    uneer- 

'2;    Henjamite--    (</,  I    Ch   8    1!);    "/;    1    Ch   8  2:',;  tain;    Zt\4>ci,  /<•/,,  /lfj.,;    The  ancestress  of  Cad  and 

(r;   1    Ch  8  27;    W;  Xeh   11  '.).  A.-;li<-r  (C,<:n   30    10  12;    35  20;    46    I*,.   a  slave  t/irl 

tt;   Father  of   Kliezcr,   who  was  one  of   David's  of  lean's,  given  her  by  Laban   '29  21;    30  <*,.      In 
tribal  princes  M    Th  27    Hij. 


48 


tribe."    have    the    ~>\  h    division 

,„    father   of    Ama,iah,    "who    willingly    offered       l-"W|inl  the  south  of  I'al  and  .he  O.h  l.o  the  north, 
him.-elf  unto  Jeh"   <2  Ch   17    1C  •,',:, 1L"'  lv  .'""r"  ^orablc  posil.ion  than  that  ol   the. 

i  •      i  <•  i  •  i  •   i        i  .    •      •       11     :     i    •          I  >  1  m  an  f  r I  oe 

<•>)    rather  of  Lh.-.haphat ,  a  captain  in  Jehoiada  s 

time   <V  Ch   23    1;. 


, 

(OJ   "A    mighty    m.-m   ol     hphrairn,      who    \vrien 
ht.ir.tr  under  IJel<ah  nlew  the  son  of  Ahax,  the  kin^ 

Ju'lah  ^  Ch  28  7; 

f7j   A  priest  in  theday.sof  Joiakun.Neh  12   17;; 


ZILTHAI,  xil'thi,  xil'tha-i.     See  ZILLKTHAI 

ZIMMAH,    ssiin'w    rr,-2T  ,    zimmuh,  perha[H   "de- 
.,„,.>,   ..I,,!inl..;:    A    f;,r;[lorii,,;   |,.,,t,    M    Ch  6  20 
V(.r  r,j    also  in  6   J'J   H'-t,  ver  27;  2  Cli  29   12;. 


ZIDDIM,    /id'ir 


II,  reov 


ZIMRAN,    scirn'ran     ^"CT  ,    2imr«At,    from    "CT  , 

-tw.r,  "wild  she«:f>"  or  "wild  fro;i.i."  the  ending  -aa 

:i,lK  K,:nt.ili»:;  Skinner,  OV«,  .'iJlO^:  Son  of  AJiruhain 

and  Ket.urafi  CCen  25  2;    I    Ch   1  :>2;.     'I'he  various 


'.g.  in  Cr  n  ,\*,  '/.' .l/idf,  Zif/fifi.  X,  '/.'./j.[j<ii>.  Z':mfdn, 
in  the  opening  of  the  ^orge  that  breaks  down  sea-  ,\',  '/.<  u.l'^Au.,  Z<  inhnnn .  I  )••'•.  'Ao/jfifxiv,  Zwnlsrdn,  and 
ward  X.  of  Kurun  Haiti  n,  the  traditional  Mount  of  \.\if:.,  '/.'-/J.f"iv,  Z<-.-mrdn.;  in  Ch.  \'>  has  7.>  ii.'.^Av ,  '/.<•„,- 

hi'i'in,.    A,    7.i  iJ.[j4,v.     '/,i  inn'l n ,    I.ue  ,    7.i  iJ.fi/'i.v,    Zfini'dn,    (<•{ 

Brooke  and  McLean's  ed  of  the  LXX  for  Gen;. 


Beat  It  ude.S 

ZID-KIJAH,  xid-kl'ja 


ZIDON,  xi'don,  ZIDONIANS,  xi-do 'ni-anx.     See 

Sll;')\.   SlbOM  •-.  '. 

ZIF, /if.     SeeZiv. 

ZIHA,  xi'ha  rsrr::..  -  z/<a',  SH:: ,  ?,;$«'  [Xeh  7  40], 

meaning  unknown  :  An  overseer  of  .\ethmim  ''Xeh 
11  21;  who  an;  called  fK/r  2  4:i;  Xeh  7  -10;  "the 
children  [or  sons  of  Ziha."  LX.X  liA  omits  Xeh 
11  20  f,  I, XX  has  itdA,  .Swff,  Luc.,  Vma.6,  Hiuau; 
in  7  10  LXX  li.  ^-^''..  .S'ed,  A.  O(c/.4.  O/<;A  Luc., 
2ouXa(,  ,S'o«/«i;  in  K/r  2  i:i  LXX  Jl,  Xouflid, 


He/K-e  -orne  h;i.e  cofineet  <•<!  the  name  uith  /:i.hra;ri 
of  I'l.ol.  vi  7.5,  U  .  of  Mecca;  others  with  t.he  /arnan-ni 
of  I'lifiv  C,1«/  '.i.l.'.H  in  thi-  interirjr  of  Arahia;  hut. 
according  to  Skinner  and  K.  Meyer  Nee  ',imke|  r;<,,«, 
li'il,  these  woulfi  he  too  far  south.  C.'urt.is  «'t.r>,,,.,  72, 
ay1-  i.he  nani"  is  prohahlv  t.o  he  identified  with  the 
"/imri"  of  Jer  25  2.'*.  It  would  then  he  the  name  of  a 
flan,  with  the  mountain  -.heep  <,;•  ir'i,;>.\.  a-  its  t.ol.em.  .-.ee 
To-j  i. MI-.'.!. 

DAVIO     Fl£ANCIH     Hoi'.I-.UT.S 

ZIMRI,    xim'rl    ("""CT ,    2(//(/x,    "wild    sheep"    ,,r 
"wild    goat";    in    1    Macr;   AV    Zap-Ppc,    Z<j.m.hi'i,t  X, 


ZIKLAG,  zik'laj?  O"^  ,  sifrlarjh,  3"-,  fiH«!//« 
[2  S  1  1],  :>'"'::,,  f^lf'lar/k  []  Ch  12  l.'JOj;  usually 
in  l.XX  2eK€\o.K,  ,S<:l"<:l>il-:,  or  lii-KtXd^,  ftik':l/iyj'. 
A  town  assigned  CJosh  19  o;  I  Ch  4  :iOy  t 


Cl;  A  Simeonite  prince  CXu  25  1  1 ;  1  Mace  2 
20;,  slain  by  Phineha.s,  Aaron's  grandson.  Xu  25 
1  ."j  records  how  the  L-.raelitf-s,  v/hile  they  were  at, 
SJiittim.  fjega.n  to  eonsf^rt  with  Moabite  women  arid 
"they  [i.e.  the  Moabite  women]  called  ihf;  peojjle 
unto  the  sacrifices  of  their  gods"  C'er  2;,  i.e.  as 
e.xplaineil  by  ver  ~>  to  titke  {/irt  in  the  immora.l  riteti 
of  the  ^od  1'aa.l-fjeor.  Mo  <:~  is  bidden  to  have  the 
r>ffenders  punished.  The  next  paragraph  (vs  0  9, 
Simeon,  but  in  Josh  15  '-'>\  named,  between  Hor-  relates  how  the  people  engage  in  public  mourning; 
nah  and  Madrfiarma.li,  as  one  of  the  cities  of  the  but  while  they  do  this  Zimri  brings  in  among  his 
Xegeb  of  Judah,  "toward  the  border  of  Ldorn.''  brethren  a  Midianitcss  Phirieha.-.  sees  this  and 
It  i-.  said  f\  S  27  0;  to  lia.ye  remairied  a  royal  city.  goes  after  Zimri  into  the  /.;.;/,/, a//.,  where  he  slays  the 
In  Xeh  11  2-s  it  i-;  in  the  list  of  town-;  reinhabited  two  together,  and  thus  the  plague  is  stayed  (vs  0  (.ij. 
by  the  returning  children  of  Juda.h.  It-:  chief  asso-  T)l(.  rf,nn, .,.,ion  hf-twf.-en  these  two  paragraphs  is  dif- 

ciations  are  with    David.      Achi-.h  the  1'hili  king  of       fi'-ult.;     Moahitu    wotm-n   an;    rneni.ioned    in    the  first,    a 

<"..th    <,',••(.    it    1i,    D-ivirl    ',-    •,    r(-    i.lenee    <\     x    97    (',('•          MidianitCSS    in    the    second;     the    plas/ue    of    vs   Hf    I-    not 
,    ^.     ^o    ,    ,,          )Javia   •'     /  '     ,       •      .'        previously  referred   to.  although  it  seern.s  clear  that  the 

1    Ch   12    1.20;;     it   was   raided    by   the   Amalekites,        ph^'ue  is'the  cau.se  of  the  weepin«  in  ver  «.     The  seuuel, 


/,      •    on    i  1  -11-    •     i  tf'  '!'>   with   liaul-peo 

property  '1   .^  30   ll.2'i,;    here  tne  messenger  who  ()   j^tl>i> 

f:ame  to  announce  S.iijl'.-.  death  was  .-.Jain     2   S    1    1  ; 

4    jfj  It  seems,  however,  that  the  two  aecounts  refer  to 

-imil.'ir  circum.stancirs.     This  is  evident  if  the  mean- 

cerTiintl-?  'dffir'  'K^X  K^'l  VulnVrffl  "«  "f  *^    ir'    ™  ?,  ^   ««   l,  "^  ,)'^  "^™   "' 

S..S.K.  of  fia/a   and  4  miles  N.  o/  H'-i^.y  ^  ;-.SV,*ri'/i    which  lu/tinar,    "a   house,  oi    ill-repute.          J  he  di.licuity   is 

may  be  the  "  Brook  Mesor"   'I    S   30  !M0.21    ;    Hov.lan-]  ,}i;i)    the   word   r,nly  occurs  liere   in   the  OT.   but   it 

a^^r^s'^h^^/l!!;^0^;;;^,^^  R'^aj  ^,.hat  meanin,  in  Xew  Heb    see  Cra.y 

sat.i'-fact.orv.     See  \Villia;ns,   II;!.,,  <'•',,   I.    )«,:',  dH;    A'/;,  /i/>/i,  however,  translates  it    a  large  vaulted  tent. 

II,  ^01,  /-/;/•',  2Hh,  Sh  XX.  \\'lule  one  narrative:  says  the  women  were  Moabit- 

K.   \\'.  C.   MAHTKHMAN  f;.-;ses  and  the  other  Midianitessrrs,  the  latter  section 

ZILLAH,  /il'a   TC^  ,    r/;//^/,;    ScXXd,  ,v  W/i ; :    One  presui^joses    -omething    like    the    account     in    tlie 

of    Larnech's   wives    cC-i-n  4    Hj.22.2o;.     The   name  former;    and   t.Jie  (,oirit   is  tha.t  Zimri.   at    the    very 
is  jjerhaps  connected  wit.ii  (•<•!,  "shadow."                       i   time  that  t.he  re.-.t  of  the  people  publicly  mourned 


Zimri 
Zion 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


31f>0 


because  of  a  plague  llial  was  due  to  I  heir  own  deal- 
ings with  foreign  women,  brought  a  Midiamte 
woman  among  the  people,  possibly  to  bo  his  \vitV, 
for  he  \vas  a  prince  or  oliiof,  and  she  \vas  the  daughter 
of  a  Midianite  chief.  It  may  be  linked  that  if  this 
bo  the  case,  there  was  nothing  wrong  in  it;  but 
according  to  Hob  ideas  tlioro  was,  and  we  only  need 
to  remember  the  evil  influence  of  such  marriages 
as  those  entered  into  by  Solomon,  or  osp.  that  of 
. \hab  with  Jezebel,  to  see  at  any  rate  a  Heb  justi- 
fication for  Zimri's  death. 

Xu  31  describes  1  he  extermination  of  the  Midianites 
at  the  bidding  of  Moses.  All  the  males  are  slain  by  the 
Israelites  (ver  7).  but  the  women  are  spared.  Moses  is 
angry  at.  this:  "Have  ye  saved  all  the  women  alive'.' 
Behold,  these  caused  the  children  of  Israel,  through  tho 
counsel  of  Balaam,  to  commit  trespass  against  .leh  in  the 
matter  of  IVor,  and  so  the  plague  was  among  the  congre- 
gation of  .leh"  (vs  l~>f!.  Here  we  find,  although  the 
chapter  is  a  Mi<llir<i«h  (see  (Jray,  Xu,  417  If),  that  the 
Hebrews  themselves  connected  t  he  two  events  of  oh  25, 
but  in  addition  the  name  of  Balaam  is  also  introduced. 
as  again  in  ver  S,  w  here  he  is  said  to  have  been  slain  along 
with  the  kings  of  Midian.  See  further  l)t  4  •>,  and 
Driver's  note  on  the  verse.  See  B  A  A  I.-PKOH  ;  1!  \I.A\M; 
PEOK. 

(2)  A  king  of  Israel  (I    K   16  S-20).     See  special 
art  icle. 

(3)  A    Judahite    "son"    of    Zorah    (1    Ch  2  <>)  = 
"Zabdi"  of  -Josh  7   1.17  f.     See  ZAHIM,  (1). 

(4)  A  Benjamito,  descendant  of  King  Saul  (1   Ch 
8  3I> ;   9  42). 

(0)  In  ,Jer  25  2~>,  where1  ''all  tho  kings  of  Zimri" 
are  mentioned  along  with  those  of  Arabia  (ver  21  i 
and  Elam  and  the  Modes.      Tho  name  is  as  yet  un- 
identified, although  thought   to  be  that  of  a  people 
called  ZIMKA\  (q.v.)  in  (Ion  25  2. 

DAVID   FRANCIS  KOBKKTS 

ZIMRI  CH^T,  zhnrl;  LXX  ZajifJpci,  Zntnhrci, 
ZajifJpi,  Zn/nhri}:  Tho  f>th  king  of  Israel,  but 
who  occupied  tho  throne  only  seven  days  (1  K  16 
9-20).  Zimri  had  boon  captain  of  half  tho  chariots 
under  Klah,  and,  as  it  seems,  made  use  of  his  posi- 
tion to  conspire  against  his  master.  The  occasion 
for  his  crime  was  furnished  by  tho  absence  of  tho 
army,  which,  under  the  direction  of  Otnri,  was  en- 
gaged in  the  siege  of  tho  Phili  town  Gibbethon. 
While  Klah  was  in  a  drunken  debauch  in  tho  house 
of  his  steward  Ar/a,  who  may  have  been  an  accom- 
plice in  tho  plot,  ho  was  foully  murdered  by  Zimri, 
who  ascended  the  throne  and  put  the  remnant  of 
Elah's  family  to  death,  thus  fulfilling  the  prophecy 
of  Jehu  concerning  the  house  of  Baasha.  However, 
the  conspiracy  lacked  tho  support  of  tho  people, 
for  word  of  the  crime  no  sootier  reached  (libbethon, 
than  tho  army  raised  Otnri  to  tho  throne  of  Israel. 
Oinri  at  once  hastened  to  Tirzah  and  captured  the 
place,  which  as  it  seems  offered  little  resistance. 
Zimri  resolved  to  die  as  king,  and  accordingly  set 
fire  to  tho  palace  with  his  own  hands,  and  perished 
in  t  he  flames  thai  ho  had  kindled.  Thus  came  to  an 
ignominious  end  the  short,  reign  which  remained 
as  a  blot  even  upon  the  blood-stained  record  of  the 
deeds  of  violence  that  ushered  in  the  change  of 
dynasties  in  tho  Northern  Kingdom,  for  the  foul 
crime  was  abhorred  even  among  arch  plotters. 
When  .Jehu  entered  Jozroel  he  was  met  with  Joze- 
bol's  bitter  taunt,  "Is  it  peace,  thou  Zimri,  thy 
master's  murderer?"  (2  K  9  31).  The  historian 
too,  in  tho  closing  formula  of  the  reign,  specially 
mentions  "his  treason  that  he  wrought." 

S.   K.  MOSIMAN 
ZIN,  zin  ("2  ,  $in;  2iv,  Sin): 

(1)  A  town  in  tho  extreme  S.  of  Judah,  on  the 
line  separating  that   province  from  Edom,   named 
between    the    ascent    of    Akrabbim    and     Kadesh- 
barnoa  (Nu  34  4;    Josh  15  3).     It  must  have  lain 
somewhere  between   Wddy  (l-Fikni   (the  ascent  of 


Akrabbim?)  and  'Ain  Kudix  (Kadesh-barnea);  but 

the  site  has  not  been  recovered. 

(2)  The  Wilderness  of  Zin  is  the  tract  deriving 
its  name  from  the  town  (Xu  34  3j.  It  is  identi- 
fied with  tlu>  wilderness  of  Kadesh  in  Nu  33  3(5; 
while  in  other  places  Kadesh  is  said  to  bo  in  the 
wilderness  of  Zin  (Xu  20  1 ;  27  11;  Dt  32  ol). 
Wo  may  take  it,  that  the  two  names  refer  to  the 
same  region.  The  spies,  who  set  out  from  Kadesh- 
barnoa,  explored  the  land  from  the  wilderness  of 
Zin  northward  (Xu  13  21;  of  32  S).  It  bordered 
with  Judah  "at  tho  uttermost  part  of  tho  south" 
(Josh  15  1).  In  this  wilderness  Moses  committed 
the  offence  which  cost  him  his  hope  of  entering  the 
promised  land  (Xu  27  14;  Dt  32  f>l).  It  is 
identical  with  tho  uplands  lying  to  the  N.  and  X.W. 
of  the  wilderness  of  Paran,  now  occupied  by  the 
^Az&zimeh  Arabs.  W.  EWING 

ZINA,  zl'na.     See  ZFZAII. 

ZION,  zi'on  Cp"?  ,  c~iyon;   Zuiv,  Sion): 

1.    Meaning  of  the  Word 

1>.   The  /ion  of  the  Jebusites 

:i.   /ion  of  (he  Prophets 

4.  /ion  in  Later  Poetical  Writings 

5.  Omission  of  Xame  by  Some  Writers 
(i.   The  Xame  "/ion"  in  Christian  Times 
LITERATURE 

A  name  applied  to  Jorus,  or  to  certain  parts  of 

it,  at  least  since  the  t  hue  of  David.     Nothing  certain 

is   known    of   the   meaning,     (lesenius 

1.  Meaning  and  others  have  derived  it  from  a  Hob 
of  the  Word  roof   HHS  ,  qnhah,   "to  be  dry";     De- 
lit  zsch  from  !"!;£  ,  fiincah,  "to  set  up," 

and  Wetzstein  from  "p¥ ,  (,'ln,  "to  protect."  (!e- 
senius  finds  a  more  hopeful  suggestion  in  the  Arab, 
equivalent  xi'litr,  tho  Arab,  wi/nnit  signifying 
"ridge  of  a  mountain"  or  "citadel,"  which  at  any 
rate  suitably  applies  to  what,  we  know  to  have  been 
the  original  Zion  (of  Smith,  IKfllL,  s.v.). 

Considerable  confusion  has  been  caused  in  the 
past  by  the  want  of  clear  understanding  regarding 
the  different  sites  which  have  respectively  boon 
called  "Zion"  during  the  centuries.  It  will  make 
matters  clearer  if  wo  take  the  application  of  the 
name:  in  David's  time;  in  the  early  Prophets,  etc; 
in  late  poetical  writings  and  in  the  Apocrypha;  and 
in  Christian  times. 

Jerus  (in  the  form  I'ru-sa-lim)  is  the  oldest  name 

we  know  for  this  city;    it  goes  back  at  least  400 

years    before    David.     In    2  S  5  6-9, 

2.  The  Zion  "Tho  king  and  his  men  went  to  Jorus 

of  the  against     the    Jebusites Never- 

Jebusites       theless   David   took  the  stronghold  of 

Zion;  the  same  is  the  city  of  David 
.  .  .  .  And  David  dwelt  in  tin;  stronghold,  and 
called  it  the  city  of  David."  It  is  evident  that 
Zion  was  the  name  of  the  citadel  of  the  Jebusite 
city  of  Jerus.  That,  this  citadel  and  incidentally 
the  then  city  of  Jorus  around  it  wore  on  the  long 
ridge  running  S.  of  the  Temple  (called  the  south- 
eastern hill  in  the  art.  JERUSALEM,  III,  [3]  [q.v.])  is 
now  accepted  by  almost  all  modern  scholars,  mainly 
on  the  following  grounds: 

(1)  The    nt'dr    proximity   of   the,   site   to   the   only 
knoirn  spring,  now  tho  "Virgin's  Fount,"  once  called 
(iiHON   (q.v.).      From   our  knowledge  of  other   an- 
cient  sites  all  over   Pal,   as  well  as  on  grounds  of 
common-sense,   it  is  hardly  possible  to  believe  that 
the  early  inhabitants  of  this  site  with  such  an  abun- 
dant source  at  their  very  doors  could  have  made  any 
other  spot   their  headquarters. 

(2)  The    snittthiliti/  of  the   site  for  defence. — The 
sites  suited  for  settlement  in  early  Can.  times  were 
all,  if  we  may  judge  from  a  number  of  them  now 
known,   of    this   nature — a  rocky  spur   isolated  on 


3151 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zimri 
Zion 


three  sides  by  steep  valleys,  and,  in  many  sites,  pro- 
tected at  the  end  when;  they. join  the  main  moun- 
tain ridge  by  either  a  valley  or  a  rocky  spur. 

(3)  The,  size  of  the  riiU/e,  though  very  small  to  our 
modern  ideas,  is  far  more  in  keeping  with  what  we 
know  of  fortified  towns  of  that  period  than  such  an 
area  as  presented  by  the  southwestern  hill  -the 
traditional  site  of  Zion.  Mr.  Macalister  found  by 
actual  excavation  that  the  great  walls  of  Ge/er, 
which  must  have  been  contemporaneous  with  the 
Jebusite  Jerus,  measured  approximately  4, f>()()  ft. 
in  circumference.  (!.  A.  Smith  has  calculated  that, 
a  line  of  wall  carried  along  the  known  and  inferred 
scarps  around  the  edge  of  this  southeastern  hill 
would  have  an  approximate  circumference  of  4,2">() 
ft.  The  suitability  of  the  site  to  a  fortified  city 
like  Gezer,  Megiddo,  Soco,  and  other  sites  which 


(traditional  Zion)  to  the  Temple  is  to  go  down. 
(h)  Hezekiah  constructed  the  well-known  Siloarn 
tunnel  from  (lihon  to  the  Pool  of  Siloam.  He  is 
describee!  (2  Ch  32  )>())  as  bringing  the  waters  of 
(lihon  "straight  down  on  the  west  side  of  the  cilv 
of  David."  (r)  Manasseh  (2  Ch  33  14)  built 
outer  wall  to  the  city  of  David,  on  the  west  si 
(lihon,  in  the  valley"  (i.e.  iidhnl  —the  name  o 
Kedron  valley). 

Zion,  renamed  the  City  of  David,  then  originally 
was  on  this  eastern  ridge.      But    the  name  did  not, 

stay  there.      It,  would  almost  seem  as 
3.   Zion  if     the     name    was    extended     to     the 

of  the  Temple  site  when  the  ark  was  carried 

Prophets         there,  for  in  the  preexilie  Prophets  the 

references  to  Zion  all  appear  to  have  re- 
ferred to  the  Temple  Hill.      To  quote  a  few  examples: 


SLOPE  OF  ZION— TYROPCEON  VALLEY   AT   RIGHT. 


have  been  excavated,  strikes  anyone  familiar  with 
these  places. 

(4)  The  archaeological  remains  on  these  hills 
found  by  Warren  and  Professor  Cuthe,  and  more 
particularly  in  the  recent  excavations  of  Captain 
Parker  (see  JKWSALKM),  show  without  doubt  that 
this  was  the  earliest  settlement  in  pre-Israelite  times. 
Extensive  curves  and  rock-cuttings,  cave-dwellings 
and  tombs,  and  enormous  quantities  of  early  "Amor- 
it  e"  (what  may  be  popularly  called  "Jebusite") 
pottery  show  that  the  spot  must  have  been  in- 
habited many  centuries  before  the  time  of  David. 
The  reverse  is  equally  true;  on  no  other  part  of  the 
Jerus  site  has  any  quantity  of  such  early  pottery 
been  found. 

(~i)  The  Bible  evidence  that  Zion  originally  occu- 
pied this  site  is  clear.  It  will  be  found  more  in 
detail  under  the  heading  "City  of  David"  in  the 
art.  jKitrsALKM,  IV,  (o),  but  three  points  may  be 
mentioned  here:  (a)  The  Ark  of  the  Covenant  was 
brought  up  out  of  the  city  of  David  to  the  Temple 
(1  K  8  1;  2  Ch  5  2),  and  Pharaoh's  daughter 
"came  up  out  of  the  city  of  David  unto  her  house 
which  Solomon  had  built  for  her" — adjacent  to  the 
Temple  (1  K  9  24).  This  expression  "up"  could 
not  be  used  of  any  other  hill  than  of  the  lower-lying 
eastern  ridge;  to  go  from  the  southwestern  hill 


"And  .Jeh  will  create  over  the  whole  habitation  of 
mount  Zion,  and  over  her  assemblies,  a  cloud  and 
smoke  by  day,  and  the  shining  of  a  flaming  fire  by 


Citadel  of  Zion. 

night"  (Isa  4  f>);  "Jeh  of  hosts,  who  dwelleth  in 
mount  Zion"  (Isa  8  IS);  "Let  us  go  up  to  Zion 
unto  Jeh  our  Clod"  (Jer  31  (5);  "Jeh  will  reign  over 
them  in  mount  Zion"  (Mic  4  7).  All  these,  and 
numbers  more,  clearly  show  that  at  that  time  Zion 
was  the  Temple  Hill. 


Zion 
Zoan 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3152 


In  many  of  the  later  writings,  particularly  poetical 
references,'  /ion  appears  to  be  the  equivalent  of  Jems; 
cither  in  parallelism  (Ps  102  -' 1  ;  Am  1  2; 
A.  7i'rm  in  ^Ii('  3  10.12;  /ec  1  14.17;  8  :<:  /epti  3  H'-> 
*•  ^1(J"1U.  ,„.  alone  (.ler  3  11;  Lain  5  ID;  even  here 
Later  Poetl-  man  v  of  1  he  references  will  do  equally  well 
cal  Writings  for  the  Temple  Hill.  The  term  "Daughter 
and  ApOCry-  of  ^'(>ll">js  applied  to  the  captive  .lews 

pha  people  ofTlerus   (Isa  1  s;   52  ii:  Jer  4  :il. 

etc).       \\hen   \vecotne    lo   the   Apocrypha, 

in  '-'    I'Nd  I  here  are  several  references  in  which  /ion  is  used 


Stairway  in  Ancient  Wall—  Modern  Zion. 

for  the  captive  people  of  Judah  (2  40;  3  -'.31  ;  10  20.39. 

44),  but   "Mount  Zion"   in   Ihis  and  other  books  (e.ji.    I 

Mace  4  :57.(iO;    5  51;   6  4s.  (W,  etc)  is  always  the  Temple 

Hill. 

It  has  been  pointed  out  as  a  curious  and  unaccountable 

exception  that  in  K/k  as  well  as  in  (  Ml.  Ezr  and  Nell,  t  here 
is  no  mention  of  /ion.  except  the  incidental 
reference  to  David's  capt  lire  of  l  he  .lebnsite 
fort.  The  references  in  the  other  Prophet 


5 


Of  Name  and  the  Pss  are  so  copious  that  there  niiisi 
by  Some  ')('  snme  religious  reason  for  this.  The 

•\i7_-j.   rc  Chronicler  ('2  (Mi  3    1),  too,  alone  refers  to 

wn  the  Temple  as  on  Mount,  Moriah.     It  is  also 

noticeable  that  only  in  these  books  (2  (Mi 
273;  33  14;  Neh  .3  L'f,  f  :  11  21)  does  the  name  "Ophel" 
appear  as  a  designation  of  a  part  of  the  southeastern  hill, 
which  apparently  iniirht  equally  fitly  have  been  termed 
Zion.  See  OPHBL.  Jos  never  uses  the  name  "Zion"  nor 
does  it  occur  in  the  NT,  except  in  t  w-o  quotations  (He, 
1222;  Rev  14  1). 

Among  the  earlier  Christian  writers  who  mention 
"Zion,"  Orison  used  it  as  equivalent  to  the  Temple 
Hill,  but  in  the  4th  cent,  writers  com- 
6.  The  mence  to  localize  il  up  the  southern  parl 

Name  of  the  western  hill.     It   was  a  period 

"Zion"  in  when  Bib.  topography  was  settled  in 
Christian  a  very  arbitrary  manner,  without  any 
Times  scientific  or  critical  examination  of  the 

evidence,  and  this  tradition  once  estab- 
lished remained,  like  many  such  traditions,  undis- 
puted until  very  recent  years.  To  Kev.  \V.  F.  Birch 
belongs  much  of  the  credit  for  the  promulgation  of 
the  newer  views  which  now  receive  the  adherence 


of  almost  every  living  authority  on  (lie  topography 
of  .lerus. 

Lri'i;u  \Ti'Hi;.  —  See  esp.  ell  vi  in  Smith's  Ji-rux<ilfin  ; 
for  a  defence  of  the  older  view  see  Kuemmel,  Mati-riulir/i 
z.  T«i»».i-  ,/r.s  ,itl.  JITU.-S. 

E.  W.  (!.  MASTEBMAN 

ZIOR,  y.l'or  O2n£  ,  r7'o/v  2u>p8,  Sorlfi,  or  Snip, 
(S'/w/'j  :  A  town  in  the  hill  country  of  .Judali  (.Josh 
15  .">!);  probably  .S'/Wr,  -1',  miles  N.N.K.  of  Hebron 
when;  the  M  nkdni  '.lt.su  (Tomb  of  Esanj  is  now 
sliown.  It  is  a  considerable  village  surrounded  by 
cult  ivat(>d  land;  a  spring  exists  in  tlie  neighbor- 
hood; then1  are  rock-cut  tombs  showing  it  is  an 
ancient  site  (1>EF,  111,  oOO,  Sh  XXI). 

ZIPH,  /if  (B^T,  ziplt;  'Oltip,()z<-ih,  orZ£«t»,  Xl^ti): 

(\)  A  Town  in  1h(>  hill  country  of  .Judah,  men- 
tioneil  along  with  Maon,  Cartnel  and  Jutah  (Josh 
15  .").")  i.  It  is  chiefly  celebrated  in  connection  \\ith 
the  earlier  history  of  David:  "David  ....  re- 
mained in  the  hill-country  in  the  wilderness  of 
Xipli"  (1  S  23  l-J.lo.'Jl;  26  2);  the  Ziphites  (I  S 
23  10;  26  1;  cf  1's  54  title)  sought,  to  betray  him 
to  Saul,  but  David  escaped.  Ziph  was  fort  iiied  by 
Kehoboam  (2  Ch  11  S).  The  name  also  occurs  in 
I  Ch  2  -12;  4  l(i.  In  connection  with  this  last  (cf 
ver  23j  it  is  nut  ieeable  that  Ziph  is  one  of  the  four 
names  occurring  on  the  Heb  stamped  jar  handles 
with  the  added  "~"C*  ,  la-inclcl-li,  "to  the  king." 

The  site  is  T<H  Zif,  4  miles  S.l'].  of  Hebron,  a 
fons])icuous  hill  2,^S2  ft.  above  sea-level;  tliere  are 
cisterns  and,  to  the  E.,  some  ruins  (I'EF,  111,  '512, 
315). 

(2)  A  town  in  the  Negeb  .if  Judah  (Josh  15  24), 
site  unknown.  E.  W.  (1.  MASTKK.MAN 

ZIPH  (*"7  ,  zl/'lt,  meaning  unknown): 

(1)  A  grandson  of  Caleb  (1  Ch  2  42);  LXX  Zet<f>, 

Zelph. 

(12)  A  son  of  Jehall«>l(4    (1  Ch  4  1(5).     In  LXX 

Cod.   A   reads   7,u/>ai,  Zi/>liai,  but    B  has  the  totally 

different  form  '  A/x?;ax«,  Amnicliui. 


ZIPHAH,  /.I'fa  (H2^T,  zlpliuli,  a  fern,  form  of 
"Ziph"  :  A  Judahite,  "son"  of  Jehall(4el.  The 
name  being  jVm.  may  be  a  dittography  of  the  pre- 
vious Ziph  (L  Ch  4  'l(')J. 

ZIPHIMS,  xif'imx:  In  title  of  I's  54  AV  for  UV 
ZirutTKs  (q.v.). 

ZIPHION,  xif'i-on  (fppB  ,  fip%0n,'"gaze"[?] 
\BI)li\)\  A  "son"  of  (lad  (Gen  46  \(>)  =  "Zephon" 
of  Nu  26  lo.  See  ZAIMION  ;  ZKPIIOMTKS. 

ZIPHITES,  zif'lts.     See  ZIPH. 
ZIPHRON,  /.if'ron.     See  SIBKAI.M. 

ZIPPOR,  zip'or  ("HS?,  I'lppor;  in  Nu  22  4;  23 
IS;  nst,  cippor,  "bird,"  "swallow"  [HI'X,  04]): 
Father  of  Balak,  king  of  Moab  (Nu  22  2.10.16; 
Josh  24  0;  Jg.s  11  25). 

ZIPPORAH,  zi-pd'ra,  zip'6-ra  (rn£2  ,  qipporah; 
S6Tr<j>iopa,  ,s'<  i>j>/ior(i)  :  Tlie  Midianite  wife  of  Moses, 
daughter  of  Jethro,  also  called  llobab,  and  prob- 
ably granddaughter  of  Keuel,  a  priest  of  Midian  at 
the  time  Moses  fled  from  Egypt,  later  succeeded 
at  his  death  by  Jethro,  or  Hobab  (Ex  2  21.22; 
4  25.20;  18  2-6). 

Whether  or  not  Z.  was  the  "Cushite  woman" 
(Nu  12  1)  is  a  much-mooted  question.  There  is 
little  ground  for  anything  more  than  speculation 
on  the  subject.  The  use  of  the  words,  "Cushite 
woman"  in  the  mouth  of  Aaron  and  Miriam  may 


3153 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zion 
Zoan 


h:ivo  boon  merely  a  description  of  Z.  ;uid  intended 
to  he  opprobrious,  or  they  may  have  been  ethnic 
in  character  and  intended  to  denote  anotlier  woman 
whom  Moses  had  married,  as  suggested  by  Ewald 
((  fetich,  f/c.s  \'<>lke.'t  /.sm<7,  II,  2r>2).  The  former  vie\v 
seems  tlie  more  probable.  The  association  of 
Midian  and  Cushan  by  Hahakknk  (3  7)  more  than 
700  years  afterward  may  hardly  be  adduced  to 
prove  like  close  relationship  bet  ween  these  peoples 
in  the  days  of  Moses.  M.  (!.  KYLH 

ZITHRI,  xith'rl.     See  SITIIIU. 

ZIV,  /iv  OT,  ziir;  AY  Zif  i  :  The  2d  month  of  the 
old  Ileb  calendar,  corresponding  to  lyyar  of  the 
Jewish  reckoning  in  later  times.  It  is  mentioned 
in  1  K  6  l.'.M.  See  CALKXDAU. 

ZIZ,  /ix,  ASCENT  OF  fpsn  nbrtt  ,  ma^dleh 
hn-q'iq;  'Acrae,  IhiMic,  'Ao-io-d,  //^.S/.SY/J  :  A  pass  in 
the  wilderness  of  Judaea  (2  Ch  20  10)  leading  from 
Hazazon-tamar  (En-gxxli,  ver  2).  This  is  generally 
identified  with  \Vnihj  JJaxnxa,  a  valley  by  which  tin- 
ancient  road  from  En-gedi  runs  toward  Jems.  At 
any  rate,  an  echo  of  the  ancient  name  survives  here  : 
possibly  the  actual  ascent  was  the  present  steep  pass 
from  En-gedi  to  the  plateau  above.  See  1'EF,  Sh 
XXI. 

ZIZA,  zi'za  (X7"T  ,  zlzu'  ,  probably  a  childish  redu- 
plicated abbreviation  or  a  term  of  endearment 
[Curtis,  Chron.,  3(19,  quoting  Xoldeke  in  EB,  III 
3204]): 

(1)  A  Simeonite  chief  (1  Ch  4  .37). 

(2)  A  son  of  King  Rehoboam,  his  mother  being  a 
daughter  or  granddaughter  of  Absalom  (2  Ch  11  20). 

(3)  A  probable  reading  for  ZIZAH  (q.v.). 


ZIZ  AH,  zl'/a  (nrt,  zlzah;  see  ZIZA):  A  (!er- 
shonite  Levite  (1  C'h  23  llj;  in  ver  10  the  name  is 
"Zina"  (S^T  ,  zlna'},  while  LXX  and  Vulg  liave 
"Ziza"  (Zifd,  Zizd)  in  both  verses,  and  one  Ileb  MS 
has  zlzd'  in  ver  10.  We  should  then  probably  read 
zlzd'  in  both  verses,  i.e.  ('Zix;a." 

ZOAN,  zo'an  ('PS,  yfun;  Tavis,  Tnt/ix): 

1.  Situation 

2.  OT  Notices 

3.  Early  History 

4.  Hyksos  Monuments 
">.  Hyksos  Population 
I).  Hyksos  Age 

7.   Description  of  Site 

The  name  is  supposed  to  mean  "migration"  (Arab. 

(sun).     The  site  is  the  only  one  connected  with  the 

history  of  Israel  in  Egypt,  before  the 

1.  Situation  exodus,  which  is  certainly  fixed,  being 

identified  with  the  present  village  of 
San  at  the  old  mouth  of  theBubastic  branch  of  the 
Nile,  about  IS  miles  S.E.  of  Damietta.  It  should  be 
remembered  that  the  foreshore  of  the  Delta  is  con- 
tinually moving  northward,  in  consequence  of  the 
deposit  of  the  Xile  mud,  and  that  the  Nile  mouths 
are  much  farther  X.  than  they  were  even  in  the  time 
of  the  geographer  Ptolemy.  Thus  in  the  times  of 
Jacob,  and  of  Moses,  Zoan  probably  lay  at  the 
mouth  of  the  Bubastic  branch,  and  was  a  harbor, 
Lake  Menzaleh  and  the  lagoons  near  Pelusium 
having  been  subsequently  formed. 

The  city  is  only  once  noticed  in  the  Pent  (Xu  13 
22),  as  having  been  built  seven  years  after  Hebron, 

which  existed  in  the  time  of  Abraham. 

2.  OT  Zoan    was    certainly    a    very    ancient 
Notices          town,  since  monuments   of    the  Vlth 

Egyp  Dynasty  have  been  found  at  the 
site.  It  has  been  thought  that  Zoar  on  the  border 
of  Egypt  (Gen  13  10)  is  a  clerical  error  for  Zoan, 
but  the  LXX  reading  (Zogora)  does  not  favor  this 


view,  and  the  place  intended  is  probably  the  fortress 
Zur,  or  Znr,  otten  mentioned  in  Egyp  texts  as  lying 
on  the  eastern  borders  of  the  Delta.  Zoan  is  no- 
ticed in  the  Prophets  (Isa  19  11.13;  304;  E/.k 
30  II),  and  its  "princes"  are  naturally  mentioned 
by  Isaiah,  since  the  capital  of  the  XX 1 1  Id  Egyp 
Dynasty  (about  SOU  to  700  BCj  was  at  this  cify. 
In  Ps  78  12,13  1  he  "field  jor  pastoral  plain]  of  Zoan" 
is  noticed  as  though  equivalent  to  the  land  of 
<  iosuKN  (q.v.). 

Zoan   was  the   capital   of   the    Hyksos  riders,   or 
"shepherd  kings,"  jn  \vhose  time  Jacob  came  into 

Egypt,     and     their    monuments    have 

i    3.  Early          been  found  at    the  site,   which  favors 

History  the  conclusion  that   its  plain  was  that 

"land  of  Rameses"  (Gen  47  1.1;  Ex 
12  37;  see  KAAMSKS)  where  the  Hebrews  had  pos- 
sessions under  Joseph.  It  is  probably  the  site  of 
Avaris,  which  lay  on  the  Bubast  ic,  channel  according 
to  Jos  quoting  Manetho  (<'A]>.  I,  xivj,  and  which 
was  rebuilt  by  the  liist  of  the  Hyksos  kings,  named 
Salatis;  for  Avaris  is  supposed  (Brugsch,  Ceo;/.,  I, 
S()-<>(),  27S-.SO)  to  represent  the  Egyp  name  of  the 
city  Ha-uar-t,  \\hich  means  ''the  city  of  movement" 
(or  "flight"),  thus  being  equivalent  to  the  Sem  Zoan 
or  "migration."  It  appeal's  that,  from  very  early 
times,  the  pastoral  peoples  of  Edom  and  Pal  were 
admitted  into  this  region.  The  famous  picture  of 
the  Ainu,  who  bring  their  families  on  donkeys  to 
Egypt,  and  offer  the  Sinaitic  ibex  as  a  present,  is 
found  at  lie  it  i,  //V/.s<m  in  a  tomb  as  old  as  the  time 
of  1'sertasen  II  of  the  Xllth  Dynasty,  before  the 
Ilyksos  age.  A  similar  immigration  of  shepherds 
(see  PITHOM)  from  Aduma  (or  Edom)  is  also  re- 
corded in  th(>  time  of  Menepthah,  or  more  than  four 
centuries  after  the  expulsion  of  the  Hyksos  bv  the 
XVIIIth,  or  Theban,  Dynasty. 

Besides  the  name  of  Pepi  of  the  Vlth  Dynasty, 
found  by  Burton  at  Zoan.  and  many  texts  of  the 

Xllth  Dynasty,  a  cartouche  of  Apepi 
4.  Hyksos  (one  of  the  Hyksos  kings)  was  found 
Monuments  by  Mariette  on  the  arm  of  a  statue 

apparent  ly  of  older  origin,  and  a  sphinx 
also  bears  the  name  of  Kliiun,  supposed  to  have 
been  an  early  Ilyksos  ruler.  The  Hyksos  type, 
with  broad  cheek  bones  and  a  prominent  nose, 
unlike  tin;  features  of  the  native  Egyptians,  has 
been  regarded  by  Virchow  and  Sir  W.  Flower  as 
Turanian,  both  at  Zoan  and  at  Bubast  is;  which 
agrees  with  the  fact  that  Apepi  is  recorded  to  have 
worshipped  no  Egyp  gods,  but  only  Set  (or  Kutekh), 
who  was  also  adored  by  Syrian  Mongols  (see  Hrr- 
TITKS).  At  Bubast  is  this  deity  is  called  ''Set  of 
liameses,"  which  may  indicate  the  identity  of  Zoan 
with  the  city  llameses. 

In  the  14th  cent.  "BO  the  city  was  rebuilt  by  Kaineses 
II,  and  was  then  known  as  Pa-Kamessu.     The  Hyksos 

rulers  had  held  it  for  ")()()  years  according 
(=;  "HWcoc  t"  Manetho,  and  were  expelled  after  1700 
O.  nyKS  1{(,_  George  the  Syncellus(CVir<m<wrapAia, 

Population      about  800  AD)    believed   that   Apepi    (or 

Apopliis)  was  the  Pharaoh  under  whom 
Joseph  came  to  Kgypt,  but  there  seems  to  have  been 
more  than  one  Ilyksos  king  of  the  name,  the  latest  being 
a  contemporary  of  Ra-Sekenen  of  the  Xlllth  Dynasty, 
shortly  before  liOOBC.  Manetho  says  that  some  sup- 
posed the,  Hyksos  to  be  Arabs,  and  the  population  of 
/oan  under  their  rule  was  probably  a  mixture  of  Sem  and 
Mongolk;  races,  just  as  ill  Syria  and  Babylonia  in  the 
same  ages.  According  to  Brugsch  (Ilixt  of  E<i>ji>t,  II. 
2.'5:5),  this  population  was  known  as  .1/r/t  or  Mi-nti,  and 
came  from  Assyria  K.  of  Ruten  or  Syria.  This  perhaps 
connects  them  with  the;  Alinyans  of  Maticne,  who  were 
a  MoTigolic  race.  This  statement  occurs  in  the  great 
table  of  nations,  on  the  walls  of  the,  Kdfu  temple. 

The  TTyksos  age  corresponds  chronologically  with  that 
of  the  1st   Dynasty  of   Babylon,  and  thus  with  the  age 

of  the  Heb  patriarchs  Abraham  and  Jacob 
6  HvkSGS  — a  ('mo  when  the  power  of  Babylon  was 
.'  •*  *  supreme  in  Syria  and  Pal.  It  is  very  natu- 

•"•ge  raii  therefore,  that,  like  other  Sem  tribes 

even  earlier,  these;  patriarchs  should  have 
been  well  received  in  the  Delta  by  the  Jlyksos  Pharaohs, 


Zoar 
Zoology 


THE  INTER  NATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3154 


and  equally  natural  that,  when  Aahines.  the  founder  of 
the  XVIlIth  Kgyp  Dynasty,  took  the  town  of  Avaris 
and  expelled  the 'Asiatics,  lie  should  also  have  oppressed 
the  Hebrews,  and  that  this  should  be  intended  when  we 
read  <Kx  1  S)  that  •'there  arose  a  new  king  over  Kgypt, 
who  knew  not  Joseph."  The  exodus,  according  to  t  he 
( >T  dates,  occurred  in  the  time  of  the  XVIIIth  Dynasty 
(see  K\oi>r»  when  Israel  left  (ioshen.  The  later  date 
advocated  hy  some  scholars,  in  the  reign  of  Menepthah 
of  the  Xl.Xt'h  Dynasty,  hardly  agrees  with  the  monu- 
mental notice  of 't  he  immigration  of  Kdomites  into  the 
Delta  in  his  reign,  which  has  been  mentioned  above; 
and  in  his  time  Kgypt  was  being  invaded  by  tribes  from 
the  X.  of  Asia. 

Zoan,  as  described  by  Rev.  (1.  J.  Chester  (Mctn. 
Surrey  \V .  Pol,  Special  Papers,  1SS1,  92-9(5),  is  now 
diily  a  small  hamlet  of  intid  huts  in  a 
7.  Descrip-  sandy  waste,  \Y.  of  the  huge  mounds 
tion  of  Site  of  its  ancient  temple;  but,  besides  tin- 
black  granite  sphinx,  and  other  statues 
of  the  Hyksos  age,  a  red  sandstone  figure  of  Rameses 
II  and  obelisks  of  granite-  hav(>  been  excavated,  one 
representing  this  king  adoring  the  gods;  while  the 
names  of  Amen,  Turn  and  Mut  appear  as  those  of 
the  deities  worshipped,  in  a  beautiful  chapel  in  the 
temple,  carved  in  red  sandstone,  and  belonging  to 
the  same  age-  of  prosperity  in  Zoan. 

C.    R.    CONDER 

ZOAR,  zeVar  (""'?£,  1?;2 ,  c«'"'Y  LXX  usually 
Sirytip,  STf/ur,  Zo^opa,  Zi'ii/orn ) :  The  name  ot  the 
citv  to  which  Lot  escaped  from  Sodom  (('.en  19 
2()'23.30),  previously  mentioned  in  13  10;  14  12. S, 
where  its  former  name-  is  said  to  have  been  Bela. 
In  19  12 12,  its  name  is  said  to  have  been  given  because 
of  its  littleness,  which  also  seems  to  have  accounted 
for  its  being  spared.  The  location  of  Zoar  has  much 
to  do  with  that  of  the  cities  of  the  Plain  or  Valley  of 
Siddim,  with  which  it  is  always  connected.  In  1  )| 
34  3,  Moses  is  said  to  have  viewed  "the  Plain  of  the 
valley  of  Jericho  the  city  of  palm  trees,  unto  Zoar,'' 
\\hile-  in  Isa  15  f>  and  Jer  48  4  (where  the  LXX 
reads  unto  ''Zoar."  instead  of  "her  little-  ones")  it 
is  said  to  be  a  city  of  Moab.  The  traditional  loca- 
tion of  tlu1  place  is  at  the  south  end  of  the  Dead 
Sea.  Jos  says  (H.I,  IV,  viii,  4)  that  the  Dead  Sea 
extended  "as  far  as  Zoar  of  Arabia."  while  in  Attl, 
I,  xi,  4,  he  stales  that  the  place  was  still  called  Zoar. 
Kusebius  (Oitnin,  201)  locates  the  Dead  Sea  between 
Jericho  and  Zoar,  and  speaks  of  the  remnants  of 
the  ancient  fertility  as  still  visible.  Ptolemy  (v. 
17."))  regards  it  as  belonging  to  Arabia  Petraea. 
The  Arabian  geographers  mention  it  under  the  name 
Ziighar,  Hn(/fi(ir,  situated  1°  S.  of  Jericho,  in  a  hot 
and  unhealthful  valley  at  the-  end  of  the  Dead  Sea, 
and  speak  of  it  as  an  important  station  on  the  trade 
route  between  Akkabah  and  Jericho.  The  Cru- 
saders mention  "Segor"  as  situated  in  the  midst 
of  palm  trees.  The  place  has  not  been  definitely 
identified  by  modern  explorers,  but  from  den  19 
19-30  we  infer  that  it  was  in  tin1  plain  and  not  in 
the  mountain.  If  we  fix  upon  the  south  end  of  the 
Dead  Sea  as  the  Yale  of  Siddim,  a  very  natural  place 
for  Zoar  and  one  which  agrees  with  all  the  tradi- 
tions would  be  at  the  base  of  the  mountains  of 
Moab,  E.  of  Wa<li/  (Ihurnmh'l,  where  then-  is  still 
a  well-watered  oasis  several  miles  long  and  2  or  3 
wide,  which  is  probably  but  a  remnant  of  a  fertile 
plain  once  extending  out  over  a  considerable  portion 
of  the  shallow  south  end  of  the  Dead  Sea  when,  as 
shown  elsewhere  (see  DEAD  SKA),  the  water  level 
was  considerably  lower  than  now. 

Robinson  would  locate-  it  on  the  northeast  corner  of 
el-Lixdn  on  the  borders  of  the  river  Kerak,  but  this  was 
done,  entirely  on  theoretical  grounds  which  would  be  met 
as  well  in  the  place  just  indicated,  and  which  is  generally 
fixed  upon  by  the  writers  who  regard  the  Vale  of  Siddim 
as  at  the  south  end  of  the  Dead  Sea.  Conder,  who 
vigorously  maintains  that  the  Vale  of  Siddim  is  at  the 
north  end  of  the  Dead  Sea.  looks  favorably  upon  the 
theory  of  Rev.  W.  H.  Birch  that  the  place  is  represented 
by  the  present  Tell  Sfiri'i/mr,  a  white  rocky  mound  at  the 
foot  of  the  Moab  Mountains,  a  mile  K.  of  Beth-haram 


(Trll  rr-KAmt'li),  7  miles  N.K.  of  the  mouth  of  t  he  Jordan, 
a  locality  remarkable  for  its  stone  monuments  and  well- 
supplied  springs     but    he  acknowledges  that   the  name  is 
more  like  the,  Christian  Segor  than  the  original  /oar. 
di:oi;e;K   KKKDDKICK   \\'KI<;HT 

ZOBAH,  y.o'ba  (rCL;£  ,  rill,/,,!,/,;  Eovpd,  Snuhit] : 
The  name  is  derived  by  llalevy  from  ^' liolifitlli  as 
referring  to  its  supplies  of  "bright  yellow"  brass; 
but  this  word  might  be  more  appropriately  used  to 
contrast  its  cornfields  with  white  Lebanon.  Zobah 
was  an  Aramaean  kingdom  of  which  we  have  the 
first  notice  in  Saul's  wars  ( 1  S  14  47). 

(1)  Dar/il's  first    ?/v//-.  — When    David    sought    to 
extend  his  boundary  to  the  Euphrates,  he  came  into 
contact  with  its  king  Hadadezer,  and  a  great  battle- 
was  fought    in  which   David   took  many  prisoners, 
Damascus,  however,  came   to   the  rescue-  and  fresh 
resistance  was  made',  but   a  complete  rout   followed 
and  great  spoil  fell  to  the  victor,  as  well  as  access 
te>  the-  rich  copper  mines  of  Tebah  and   Berothai. 
Toi,  king  of  Haniath,  who  had  suflVred  in  war  with 
Haelade/er,  now  sent    his  son  em  an  embassy  with 
greetings  and   gifts   to    David    (2  S  8  3-12;    1   Ch 
18  3    12).     See  Ps  60,  title. 

(2)  Daritl'x    srcnml    irtir. — During    David's    Am- 
monite- war,  the  enemy  was  strengthened  by  alliance 
with  Zobah,    Maacah   and    Be-th-rehob,   and    Israel 
was  attacked  from  both  X.  and  S.  at  the  same  time. 
The-  northern  confederation  was  defeated  by  Joab, 
but    Hadaele/er  again  gathered  an  army,  including 
levies  from  beyond  the-   Euphrates.     These,   under 
Shobach  the  captain  of  the  host,  were  met  by  David 
in  person  at   Ilelam,  and  a  great  slaughter  ensued, 
Shobach    himself   being    among    the   slain    (2  S  10 
(5-19,    AV    "Zoba";     1  Ch  19  3-19).     Re/on,    son 
of   Eliada,  now  broke  away  from    Hadaele/er  and, 
getting  possession  of  Damascus,  set  up  a  kingdom 
hostile'  to  Israel  (1    K   11  23-2.r>).     Solomon  seems 
(2  Ch  8  3)  to  have  invadeel  and  subdued  Ilamath- 
zobah,  but  the  text,  csp.  LXX,  is  obscure. 

(II)  (!«xjr(iphi<-al  i>oxiti<»i.- — We-  can  now  consider 
the  vexed  question  of  the  situation  and  extent  of 
Aram-zobah.  (See  SYRIA,  -1,  [10].)  In  addition  to 
t  he-  <  )T  references  we  have  t  he  Assyr  name  lists.  In 
these  Subiti  is  placed  between  Kui  and  Ze-mar,  and, 
where  it  is  otherwise  referred  to,  a  position  is  implied 
between  Hamath  and  Damascus.  It  would  thus  lie- 
along  the- eastern  slope's  of  Ant i- Lebanon  extending 
thence  to  the  desert,  and  in  the  north  it  may  have  at 
t  hues  included  Emesa  (modern  lloinx)  around  which 
Xoleleke  would  locate  it.  Damascus  was  probably 
a  tributary  state-  till  seized  by  He/on.  Winckler 
would  identify  it  with  another  Subiti,  a  place  in 
the-  Hauran  mentioned  by  Assurbanipal  on  the 
Rassam  Cylinder  vii.  lines  110-12.  This  latter 
may  be  the  native-  place  of  Igal,  one  of  David's 
''thirty"  (2  S  23  3(5),  who  is  named  among  eastern 
Israelite's. 

The-  kingdom  of  Zobah  in  adelition  to  its  mineral 
wealth  must  have  been  rich  in  vineyards  and  trait  • 
ful  fields,  and  its  conquest  must  have-  added  greatly 
to  the  wealth  anel  power  of  Israel's  king. 

\V.   M.  CIIRISTII; 

ZOBEBAH,  zei-be-'ba  (rCGSn ,  bn-quhlifhlinJi, 
meaning  uncertain):  A  Judahite  name  with  the 
article'  prefixed  (1  Ch  4  S) ;  some'  would  read 
''Jabe-z"  instead  as  in  ver  9. 

ZOHAR,  zd'hur  (in 2  ,  fu/uir,  meaning  uncertain  i : 

(1)  Father   of    Ephron    the    Hit  the    (den  23  S; 
26  9). 

(2)  ''Son"  of  Simeon   (den  46  10;    Ex  6  15)  = 
"Zerah"  of  Nu  26  13;    1  Ch  4  24;    see  ZKRAH,  4 

(3)  In    1    Ch   4   7,  where   K"re   is   "and   qohar" 
for    K'lhlbh,    yi$har,    RV    "Izhar,"    AV   wrongly 
"Jezoar." 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


31.r)5 


ZOHELETH,  /r/he-leth,  THE  STONE  OF 

ri  ,  'ebhcnha-zohelcth,  "serpent's  stone"):  "And 
Adonijah  slew  sheep  and  oxen  and  fat  lings  by  the 
stone  of  Zoheletli,  which  is  beside  Kn-rogel''  (1  K 
1  !)).  Evidently  this  was  a  sacred  stone  —  probably 
a  inii^^cb/idh  such  as  marked  a  Can.  sanctuary. 
A  source  of  ''living  water''  has  always  in  the  Sein 
world  been  a  sacred  place;  even  today  at  most  such 
places,  e.g.  at  Hlr  Eyydb,  (lie  modern  representa- 
tive of  Kn-rogel,  there  is  a  mihrdb  and  a  platform 
for  prayer.  The  stone  has  disappeared,  but  it  is 
thought"  that  an  echo  of  the  name  survives  in  cz- 
Zehweleh,  the  nani(>  of  a  rocky  outcrop  in  the  village1 
of  Siloam.  Because  the  name  is  particularly  asso- 
ciated with  an  ascent  taken  by  the  woman  coming 
from  the  Virgin's  Fount,  to  which  it.  is  adjacent, 
some  authorities  have  argued  that  this,  the  Virgin's 
Fount,  must  be  Ett-roijii;  on  this  sec  KX-ROCF.L; 
(InioN.  Against  this  view,  as  far  as  cz-Zrhire/di 
is  concerned,  we  may  note:  (1)  It  is  by  no  means 
certain  that  the  modern  Arab,  name  —  which  is 
used  for  similar  rocky  spots  in  other  places  —  is 
really  derived  from  the  Heb;  (2)  the  name  is  now 
applied  to  quite  different  objects,  in  the  Heb  to  a 
stone,  in  the  Arab,  to  a  rocky  outcrop;  (3)  the  name 
is  not  confined  to  this  outcrop  near  the  Virgin's 
Fount  alone,  but  applies,  according  to  at  least  some 
of  the  fellahin  of  Siloam,  to  the  ridge  along  the  whole 
village  site;  and  (  i)  even  if  all  the  above  were  dis- 
proved, names  are  so  frequently  transferred  from 
one  locality  to  another  in  Pal  that  no  argument  can 
be  based  on  a  name  alone. 

K.  W.  G.  MASTERMAN 

ZOHETH,  zo'heth  (PITT  ,  zohcth,  meaning  un- 
known): A  .Judahite  (1  C'h  4  20).  The  name  after 
"Ben-zoheth"  at  the  end  of  the  verse  has  fallen  out. 
See  BK.\-/OIU:TH. 

ZOOLOGY,  zo-ol'o-ji:  A  systematic  list  of  the 
animals  of  the  Bible  includes  representatives  of  the 
principal  orders  of  mammals,  birds  and  reptiles,  and 
not  a  few  of  the  lower  animals.  For  further  notices 
of  animals  in  the  following  list,  see  the  articles 
referring  to  them: 

Mammals: 

I5  K  i  MATHS:    Ape 

IXSECTIVOBA:     Hedgehog.      MOM-:   (<|.v.)  not  found  in 

Pal 

CHIROPTI-:RA:    Hat 

C  A  H  N  i  v  o  H  A  : 

(a)   Frliilni',  Cat.  Lion,  Leopard 

(/,)    Hu<i,  nidae,  Hyena 

(c)    ('aniline,    Dog    (incl.    Greyhound,),   Fox,  Jackal. 


Zoar 
Zoology 


ar,  Ferret,  Badger,  Marten  (s.v.  C\T) 
Bear 


Wolf 

(rl)    Miixti-H 
O)     Ursida 
UNGULATA: 

(a)   Odd-toed:  Horse,  Ass,  Mule,  Rhinoceros 

(6)    Even-toed    non-ruminants:    Swine,    Hippopota- 

mus (Behemoth) 
(c)    Ruminants: 

(1)  Bnri<ln<,   Domestic  Cattle,  Wild  Ox  or  Ini- 
corn,      Domestic     Sheep.      Domestic     Coat, 
Sinaitic    Ibex     (s.v.    GOAT),    Persian    Wild 
Coat  (s.v.  CHAMOIS"),  Gazelle,  Arabian  Oryx 
(s.v.  ANTELOPE),  Chamois 

(2)  Cervidne,   Roe  Deer,   Fallow  Deer,  Keel  Deer 

(S.V.     I)  IKK  I 

C5)    Camel  idae.  Camel 
PROBO.SCIDEA  :   Elephant 
HYRACOIDK  \  :    Coney 
SIHK.MA:    Dugong  (s.v.   HAIH;I-.HI 
CETACEA:    Whale,   Dol])hin.   Porpoise 
RODKNTIA:   Mouse,  Mole-Rat  (s.v.  MOM-;),  Porcupine, 
Hare 
Birds: 

PASSEHES:  Sparrow,  Swallow,  Raven,  Hoopoe,  Night- 

Hawk 

RAPTOHES:  Great  Owl,  Little  Owl.  Horned  Owl,  Kanle, 

Vulture,    Gier-Eagle,    Osprey,      Kite.     Glede,     Hawk, 

Falcon 

COI.CMBAK:    Dove.  Turtle-Dove 

GAI.I.INAE:   Cock.  Partridge,  Quail.  Peacock 

G  HAM.ATOHKS:  Craiie,  Heron,  Stork 

STEHANOPODES:    Pelican,  Cormorant 

RATITAE:   Ostrich 


Reptiles: 

Citoi -ODII. IA:    Crocodile  (Leviathan) 

CHELONIA  :   Tortoise 

OI-HIDIA:   Serpent,    Fiery   Serpent,    Adder.    Asp,    Viper 

(s.v.  SERPENT) 

LACERTILIA:    Lizard,  Great  Li/iird.  Gecko,  Chameleon, 

Land  Crocodile,  Sand  Li/ard  (s.v.  LIZARD; 
Amphibians: 

Prog 
Fishes: 

Fish  (in  general) 
Mollusks: 

Snail,  Murex  (Purj)le) 
Insects: 

11  Y.MKxoi'TKKA  :    Ant.   Bee,  Hornet 

LEPIDOPTKRA:    Clothes-Moth  (s.v.  MOTH;,  Silk-Worm, 

Worm  (Larva) 

SIPHONAPTERA:    Flea 

DIPTI-: HA  :    Fly 

RHYNTHOTA:    Louse.  Scarlet-Worm 

ORTHOPTEHA:  Grasshopper,  Locust 

(s.v.   INSECTS) 
Arachnida: 

Spider,  Scorpion 
Coelenterata: 

Coral 
Porifera: 

Sponge 

Some  interesting  problems  arise  in  connection 
with  the  lists  of  clean  and  unclean  animals  in  Lev 
and  Dt.  The  list  of  clean  animals  in  Dt  14  4-5 
is  as  follows: 


1  1  i  :  i) 

AV 

RV 

TRISTRAM 

1.    shor.  . 

Ox 

Ox 

Ox 

'2.    .s-f-A 

I:1'.  ^ali  him  . 

Sheep 

Sheep 

Sheep 

3.    ne/i   'izzim 

Goat                     (ioat                     Gout 

4.    'ni/i/dl  .  .  . 

Hart 

Hart 

Red  deer 

5.    Qcl>hi  

Roebuck 

Gazelle 

Gazelle 

(i.    i/i:h>nur  .  . 

Fallow  deer 

Roebuck 

Bubale 

7.    'akko.  .  .  . 

\^  ild  goat          \\  ild  troat         Ibex 

8.    dixlton.  .  . 

Pygarg            i    Pygarg 

Add  ax 

9.    te'o  

Wild  ox              Antelope 

Oryx 

10.    Zf  an  r.  .   . 

Chamois            Chamois 

Barbary 

;        sheep 

Probably  the  most  valuable1  modern  work  on  Bible 
animals  is  Tristram's  Xattiral  History  of  the  Bible, 
published  in  1S67  and  to  a  great  extent  followed  in 
RV  and  in  articles  in  various  Bib.  encyclopaedias. 
In  the  table  given  above,  RV  really  differs  from 
Tristram  only  in  G,  8  and  10.  Hart  is  the  male1  of 
the  red  deer,  the  ibex  is  a  kind  of  wild  goat,  and 
the  oryx  is  a  kind  of  antelope.  The  first  three  in  the 
table  are  domestic  animals  whose  identification  is  not 
questioned.  The  other  seven  are  presumably  wild 
animals,  regarding  every  one  of  which  there  is 
more  or  less  uncertainty.  'Akko,  dlnhdn.  and  z<  mcr 
occur  only  in  this  passage,  lr'o  only  here  and  in  Isa 
61  20.  'Ayydl  occurs  22  t,  f/;/d  1(5  t,  yahmilr  only 
twice.  The  problem  is  to  find  seven  ruminant  mam- 
mals to  correspond  to  these  names.  The  camel  (ver 
7)  is  excluded  as  unclean.  The  gazelle,  the  Sinaitic 
ibex,  and  the  Pers  wild  goat  are  common.  The  roe 
deer  was  fairly  common  in  Carmel  and  Southern 
Lebanon  20  years  ago,  but  is  now  nearly  or  quite 
extinct.  The  fallow  deer  exists  in  Mesopotamia, 
and  Tristram  says  that  he  saw  it  in  Galilee,  though 
the  writer  is  inclined  to  question  the  accuracy  of  the 
observation.  The  oryx  is  fairly  common  in  North- 
western Arabia,  approaching  the  limits  of  Edom. 
Here,  then,  are  six  animals,  the  gazelle,  ibex,  Pers 
wild  goat,  roe  deer,  fallow  deer,  and  oryx,  whose 
existence  in  or  near  Pal  is  undisputed. 

The  bubale,  addax  and  Barbary  sheep  of  Tristram's 
list  are  North  African  species  which  the  writer  believes 
do  not  range  as  far  E.  as  Egypt,  and  which  he  believes 
should  therefore  be  excluded.  In  Asia  Minor  are  found 
the  red  deer,  the  chamois  and  the  Armenian  wild  sheep, 
but-  there  is  no  proof  that  any  of  these  ever  ranged  as  far 
S.  as  Pal.  The  bison  exists  in  the  Caucasus,  and  the  wild 
ox,  urun  or  aurochs,  seems  to  be  depicted  in  Assyr  sculp- 
tures. The  buffalo  is  found  in  Pal,  but  is  believed  to 
have,  been  introduced  since  Bible  times.  The  Tartarian 
roe  is  named  Cfrru*  i>uii<ir</tix,  and  there  is  a  South  African 
antelope  named  Bubulia  pi/'jiirtjii*,  but  the  pygarg  of  E\~ 


Zoology 
Zoroastrianism 


THE  IXTEHXATIOXAL  STAXDAKI)  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3150 


has  no  real  existence.     The  word  means  "  \\hite-rumped,  " 
and  might  apply  to  various  deer  and  antelopes. 

To  complete   the   list    of  seven   we  are  therefore    | 
driven  to  one  of  the  following:    the  red  deer,   the    ; 
chamois,  the  Armenian  wild  sheep.  1  he  bison  and  t  he 
aurochs,  no  one  of  which  has  a,  very  good  claim  to  be 
included.     The  writer  considers  1  hat  1  he  roe.  which 
has  been  the  commonest   deer  of   Pal,   is  the  'ayyal 

(cf  Arab.  A. 


c 

occurrences  in  the  ( )T,  may  well  be  that  common 
animal.  There  is  reason  to  think  that  yahiirilr  is  t  he 
name  of  a  deer,  and  1  lie  writer  prefers  to  apply  it  to 
the  fallow  deer  of  .Mesopotamia,  as  being  more  likely 
to  have  inhabited  I'al  than  the  red  deer  of  Asia 
Minor.  There  is  little  evidence  regarding  '<il;kr>, 
which  occurs  only  here.  The  etymology  is  uncertain. 
LXX  has  T  pay  t  \a<pos,  lr(i</('lri/>li<>x,  "goat-stag."  Tg 
and  Svr  YSS,  according  to  HDH,  have  ibex.  Yd'rl  \ 
(Job  39  1;  Ps  104  IS;  1  S  24  2),  EV  "wild  goat." 
is  ciuite  certainly  the  ibex,  but  it  is  possible  that 
'akko  may  be  another  name  for  t  he  same  animal.  i/d'(~l. 
not  occurring  in  this  li>t.  In  BDBdlshon  is  derived 
from  V  Tl"7.7! ,  dilxh,  "to  trend."  and  is  considered 
to  be  a  kind  of  -\\ild  goat.  Since  we  have  assigned 
'tiklid  to  the  ibex,  we  may  then  assign  this  name  to 
the  other  wild  goat  of  the  cnuntrv,  the  1'ers  wild 
goat  or  pasang.  T'  'o  is  in  11V  antelope  and  in  I.X  X 
fipr£,  iiru.r.  "oryx."  This  is  a  possible  identifica- 
tion which  suits  also  Isa  61  20.  and  does  not  pre- 
clude the  possibility  that  the  r't't/i,  AY  "unicorn.'' 
UY  "\vild-ox,"  may  also  be  the  oryx.  The  oryx  is 
known  to  the  Arabs  under  at  least  throe  names,  the 

commonest  of  which,  ,jix^.«J|    wib  ,  fxtlcr  <  /-//v///,\7/, 

means  "wild-ox."  I  ndor  CHAMOIS,  the  writer  sug- 
gests that  zcnnr  may  be  the  pasaiiu;  or  J'ers  wild 
goat,  which  is  figured  in  that  article.  There  is 
little  to  choose  in  t  he  assignment  of  I  he  names,  but 
as  <n*lidn  has  here  been  provisionally  assigned  to 
the  pasang,  nothing  better  is  left  for  zcnnr  than 
the  "chamois"  of  EY,  the  claims  of  which  are 
referred  to  above. 

The  list  of  unclean  animals  is  considered  in  the 
art .  on  LI/.AHP. 

Prophecies  of  the  desolation  of  I5ab\lo!i  and  Kdom  in 
Isa  13  '2\.'2'2:  34  11  15  contain  names  of  animals,  some 
of  which  present  apparently  insuperable  ditlieult  ie... 
See  under  .1  \<  K  s  i.  and  S  \  i  i  u.  The  Hook  of  Joli  eon  I  ain< 
some  remarkable  references  to  animals,  esp.  in  ehs  39, 
40,  41:  to  the  wild  goal,  the  uild  ass.  the  wild  ox,  tin- 
ostrich,  the  horse,  the  hawk,  the  behemoth  and  1  he 
leviat  han. 

Prov   30   contains    some    curious    allusions    to    natural 
history  : 
"    ....  Things  which  are  too  wonderful  for  me   .... 

The  way  of  an  eagle  in  the  air: 
The  way  of  a  serpent  upon  a  rock 

There  are  four  things  which  are  li 

But  they  are  exceeding  wise: 

The  ants  are  a  people  not  strontr. 

Yet    I  hey  provide  their  food  in  the  summer; 

The  conies  arc  but  a  feeble  folk. 

Yet  they  make  their  houses  in  the  rock--; 

The  locusts  have  no  king. 

Yet  go  they  forth  all  of  them  by  bands; 

The  lizard  taketh  hold  with  her  hands. 

Yet  is  she  in  kings'  palaces. 

There  are  three  things  which  are  stately  in  their  march. 

Yea,  four  which  are  stately  in  going: 

The  lion,  which  is  mightiest  among  bea.sts, 

And  turneth  not  away  for  an.\  : 

The  greyhound;  the  he-goat  also; 

And  the' king  against  whom  there  is  no  rising  up." 

An  interesting  grouping  is  found  in  the  prophecy  in 
Isa  11  <>-8  (cf  65  2f>):  "And  the  wolf  shall  dwell  with 
the  lamb,  and  the  leopard  shall  lie  down  with  the  kid; 
and  the  calf  and  the  young  lion  and  the  falling  together; 
and  a  little  child  shall  lead  them.  And  the  cow  and  the 


bear  shall  feed:  their  young  ones  shall  lie  down  together; 
and  the  lion  shall  cat  straw  like  the  ox.  And  the  suck- 
ing child  shall  play  on  the  hole  of  the  asp.  and  the  weaned 
child  shall  put  his  hand  on  the  adder's  den." 

The  fauna  of  Pal  is  mainly  European  and  Asiatic, 
but  resembles  in  some  important  points  the  fauna 
of  Africa.  The  Syrian  coney  is  not  found  else- 
where and  its  only  near  allies  are  the  conies  of 
Africa,.  The  gazelle  and  oryx  belong  to  the  group 
of  antelopes  which  is  esp.  African.  The  lion  and 
leopard  range  throughout  Africa  and  Southwest 
Asia.  The  ostrich  is  found  outside*  of  Africa  only 
in  Arabia.  Some  of  the  smaller  birds,  as  for  in- 
stance the  sun-bird,  have  their  nearest,  allies  in 
Africa.  The  lish  of  the  Sea  of  Tiberias  and  the 
Jordan  present  important-  resemblances  to  African 
fishes.  The  same  is  true  of  some  of  the  butterflies 
of  I'al.  Allying  the  fauna  of  Pal  with  that  of 
Europe  and  Xorth  Asia  may  be  noted  the  deer, 
bear,  wolf,  fox,  hare  and  others.  The  ibex  and 
Pers  wild  goat  constitute  links  with  central  Asia, 
which  is  regarded  as  the  center  of  distribution  of  the 
goat  tribe. 

The  fauna  of  Pal  has  undoubtedly  changed  since 
Bible  times.  Lions  have  disappeared,  bears  and 
leopards  have  become  scarce,  the  roe  deer  has  nearly 
or  quite  disappeared  within  recent  years.  It  is 
doubtful  whether  the  aurochs,  the  chamois  and  the 
red  deer  were  ever  found  in  Pal,  but  if  so  they  are 
entirclv  gone.  The  buffalo  has  been  introduced 
and  has  become  common  in  some  regions.  Domes- 
tic cats,  common  now,  were  perhaps  not  indig- 
enous to  ancient  Palestine.  In  prehistoric  times, 
or  it  may  be  before  the  advent  of  man,  the  glacial 
period  had  an  influence  upon  the  fauna  of  this 
country,  traces  of  which  still  persist.  On  the  sum- 
mits of  Lebanon  are  found  two  species  ol  butterfly, 
/Vi/-/x  caliiilice,  found  also  in  Siberia,  and  Vani'xxa 
nrlicdi',  common  in  Europe.  When  the  glacial 
period  came  on,  these  but  terflies  with  a  host,  of  other 
creatures  were  driven  down  from  the  X.  When 
the  cold  receded  northward  they  moved  back  again, 
except  for  these,  and  perhaps  others  since  become 
ext  inct  ,  which  found  the  congenial  cold  in  ascending 
the  mountains  where  they  became  isolated.  Syria 
and  I'al  were  never  covered  with  a  sheet  ot  ice,  but 
the  famous  cedar  grove  of  Lebanon  stands  on  the 
terminal  moraine  of  what  was  once  an  extensive 
glacier.  Ai.iKK.n  ELY  DAY 


ZOPHAH,   /d'l'a 
certain):   An  .  \sheri 


(1    Ch   7  3.1.  :](>} 


meanng    un- 


ZOPHAI, y.o'i'l,    /o'fa-i    C1?"^  ,    rdjihai/.    meaning 

uncertain):  In    1    Ch  6  20    (Hob    ver     lI)  =  Zuph, 

IVTC  of  ver  3o    (He!)   ver  120),   and    1    S  1    1.      See 
ZYi'ii,   (1). 

ZOPHAR,  /o'far  OS£  ,  "!?"!£  ,  <;d/>kar,  meaning 
doubtful,  supposed  from  root  meaning  '"to  lea])"; 
Su)4>dp,  X(~>/>/uir):  One  of  the  three  friends  of  Job 
who.  hearing  of  his  alllict  ion,  make  an  appointment 
together  to  visit  and  comfort  him.  lie  is  from  the 
tribe  of  Xaamah,  a  tribe  and  place  otherwise  un- 
known. for  as  all  the  oilier  friends  and  Job  himself 
are  from  lands  outside  of  Pal,  it  is  not  likely  that 
this  place  was  identical  with  Xaamah  in  the  W.  of 
Judah  (Josh  15  -11).  lie  speaks  but  twice  (ehs  11, 
20);  by  his  silence  the  3d  time  the  writer  seems  to 
intimate  that  with  Hildad's  3d  speech  (ch  25;  see 
under  HILDAD)  t  lie  friends'  arguments  are  exhausted. 
He  is  t  he  most  impel  nous  and  dogniat  ie  of  t  he  t  hive 
(cf  11  12.3;  20  2.3);  stung  to  passionate  response 
by  .lob's  presumption  in  maintaining  that  he  is 
wronged  and  is  socking  light  from  God.  His  words 
are  in  a  key  of  intensity  amounting  to  reckless  ex- 
aggeration. He  is  the  first  to  accuse  Job  directly 


3157 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIHLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


of  wickedness;  averring  indeed  th;il  his  punishment 
is  too  good  for  him  (11  <>);  he  rebukes  Job's  impious 
presumption  in  trying  to  find  out  the  unsearchable 
secrets  of  (tod  (11  7-12);  and  yet,  like  the  rest  of 
the  friends,  promises  peace  and  restoration  on  con- 
dition of  penitence  and  putting  away  iniquity  (11 
13-19).  Even  from  this  promise,  however,  he 
reverts  to  the  fearful  peril  of  the  wicked  (ver  20); 
tin  (I  in  his  2d  speech,  outdoing  the  others,  he  presses 
their  lurid  description  of  the  wicked  man's  woes  to 
the  extreme  (20  5-29),  and  calls  forth  ft  Pi  might, 
contradiction  from  Job,  who,  not  in  wrath,  but 
in  dismay,  is  constrained  by  loyalty  to  truth  to 
acknowledge  things  as  they  are.  Zophar  seems 
designed  to  represent  (he  wrong-headedness  of  the 
odium  theologicum.  JOHN  FRA.NKLIX  (.JKXTNG 

ZOPHIM,  sro'fim,  THE  FIELD  OF  (S^E2  TT&  , 

s"</Jteh  fdp/ruii;  tts  d-ypou  <rKomdv,  r/.s-  <it/r<ni  ,s/co- 
pidn):  The  place  on  the  top  of  Pisgah'to  which 
Balak  took  Balaam,  whence  only  a  part  of  the  host 
of  Israel  could  be  seen  (Nu  23  14).  Perhaps  we 
should  simply  translate  'Held  of  watchers.''  Com  lei- 
draws  attention  to  the  name  Talent  c.s-*SV/«  attached 
to  an  ascent,  leading  up  to  the  ridge  of  Xcba  from 
the  X.  Here  possibly  is  a  survival  of  the  old  name. 
For  Ramathaim-zophiim  see  RAMAH, 


ZORAH,  zd'ra  (HpS  ,  $0}\ih;  Sapad,  tfnrad): 
A  city  on  the  border  of  rJAn,  between  Eshtaol  and 
Ir-shemesh  (Josh,  19  41,;  the  birthplace  of  Samson 

ift  tiv  t      *\   n°;U'  hero  <l<)0  he  W;IH  buried  (J£* 

10  61);    ,rom  Jioro  soine  Danitcs  went  to  spy  out 
th<;  ['^\  Ugs  18  2,11).     In  Josh  15  33  it  is,  with 
.^jtaol,  allotted  to  Judn.1i,  and  after  the  captivity 
it  \vas  reinhabited  by  the  "children  of  Judah"  (Neh 

11  'J<>,  AV  "Zareah").      It  was  one  of  the  cities  forti- 
fied by^Rehobpam   (2  Ch  11  10).     It  is  probable 
t  'nat  it  is  mentioned  under  the  name  Tsarkha  along 
with   Aialuna    (Aijaloti;    2  Ch  11  10)    in   the   Am 
Tab  (No.  2l>5,  lYfrie)  as  attacked  by  the  Khabiri. 

It  is  the  modern  Sur*a,  near  the  summit  of  a  lofty 
hill  on  the  north  side  of  the  Wdrly  r.s--,s'///v7r  (Yale  of 
8orek).  The  summit  itself  is  occupied  by  the 
Afukdm,  N<bi  Sainit,  overhung  by  a  lofty  i>ahn,  and 
there  are  many  remains  of  ancient  tombs,  cisterns, 
wine  presses^  etc,  around.  From  here;  Extiu\i 
''Eshtaol).  '-.•I  hi  Slirtnx  (Bet  li-shemesh)  and  Tilnmh 
(Timnah)  urc  all  visible.  See  PEF,  III,  15X,  Sh 
-XVII,  E.  W.  G.  MASTEBMAX 


,  ZORATHITES,  zo'rath-its  pri7"lS ,  gor'athi; 
SapaSaiOL,  Xurutlitiioi  [1  Ch  2  53,  AY  "Zareath- 
ites"],  B, -6  'ApaOei,  }io  Ar<ilhcl,  A,  6  Sapa0i,  hn 
Kdrathi,  [4  2]):  The  inhabitants  of  Zorah,  who  are 
said  to  be  descended  from  Kiriath-jeurim  families. 

ZOREAH,  /o'ro-a   (ny-)S  ,  f «/«/»):    A\r  of  Josh 
15  33  for  ZORAH  (q.v.). 

ZORITES,    zo'rits   T"~)?  ,  for'l;    B,  6  'Ho-apo-tC, 

ho  Hesarxci,  A,  6  'Htrapaei,  ho  IIc.Mtmcl):  In  1  Ch 
2  54  for  "Zorites"  we  should  probably  read  ZOK- 
ATHITKS  ^.j.v.).  These  formed  a  half  of  the  inhabit- 
ants (>f  ZVlAXAHATIf  (q.V.). 

ZOROASTRIANISM,  /d-rd-as'tri-an-ix/m: 

f    .1..       1Tl~iT('KY 

Sources 
IU.      RELATION    TO    ISHAKI, 

'I.    Influence  on  Occident 

2.  Popular  Judaism 

3.  Possible  Theological  Influence 

4.  An^eloloK.v  and  Demonology 

5.  Eschatology 

6.  Messiah 

7.  Ethics 

S.   Summary 

LlTEfATURB 


/.  History.  —The  sacred  book  of  the  Persians,  the 
A  vesta,  is  a  Uork-  of  which  only  a  small  part  haswur- 
vived.  Tmdition  tells  that  the  Avestau 
Sources  MSS  have  suffered  one  part  ial  and  two 
total  dcstruct  ionn  (at  the  hands  of  Tu- 
ranians, Macedonians,  and  Mohammedans,  respec- 
tively), and  what  remains  seems  to  bn  based  on  a 
collection  of  passages  derived  from  oral  tradition 
and  arranged  for  liturgical  purposes  at  the  time  of 
Hie  first.  HasH.'tnians  (after  220  ADj.  None  the  less, 
a  port  ion  (t  he  (la) has)  of  the  present  work  certainly 
contains  material  from  Zoi'oanter  himself  and  much 
of  the  remainder  of  the  Avesfa  is  pre-Christian, 
although  Home  portions  are  later.  Outside  of  the 
A  vest  a  there  is  an  extensive!  literature  written  in 
Pahlavi.  Most  of  (hi,-*  in  its  final  form  belongs  to 
the  Oth  Christian  cent.,  or  to  an  even  later  date, 
but  in  it  there  is  embodied  much  very  early  matter. 
I  nfortunately  criticism  of  these  sources  is  as  yet  in 
a  very  embryonic  condition.  The  (lr  historians, 
esp.  Plutarch  and  Strabo,  are  naturally  of  great 
importance,  but  the  chief  (!r  work  (that  of  Theo- 
pompus)  is  lost . 

For  a  general  account  of  Zoroastrianisrn,  see 
PKRSIAM  RKLK;IO\. 

//.  Relation  to  Israel. — Zoroastrianism  was  an 
active,  missionary  religion  that  has  exerted  a  pro- 
found influence  on  the  world's  thought, 

1.  Influence  all  the  more  because  in  the  West  (at 
on  Occident  any  rate)   Ahura   Mazda  was  not   at 

all  a  jealous  god,  and  Mazdeism  was 
always  quite  ready  to  enter  into  syncretism  with 
other  systems.  But  this  syncretistic  tendency 
makes  the  task  of  the  historian  very  delicate.  None 
of  the  three  great  streams  that  swept  from  Persia 
over  the  West — Mithraism,  Cnost  icism,  and  Mani- 
cheism— contained  much  more  than  a  Mazdean 
nucleus,  and  the  extrication  of  Mazdean  from  other 
(esp.  older  Magian  and  Bab)  elements  is  frequently 
impossible.  Yet  the  motive  force  came  from  Zoro- 
aster, and  long  before  the  Christ  ianera  "Magi''  were 
everywhere  (as  early  as  139  BC  they  were  expelled 
from  Rome;  cf  RAB-MAG;  BRANCH).  Often,  doubt- 
less, charlatans,  they  none  the  less  brought  teach- 
ings that  effected  a  far-reaching  modification  of 
popular  views  and  produced  an  influence  on  so  basic 
a  writer  as  Plato  himself. 

Within  the  period  53S-332  BC  (that  Cyrus  was 

a  Zoroastrian  seems  now  established)    Israel  was 

under  the  rule  of  Mazdeans,  and  Maz- 

2.  Popular     dean  influence  on  at  least  the  popular 
Judaism        conceptions    was    inevitable.     It    ap- 
pears  clearly   in   such   works   as   Tob 

(Exim*  T,  XI,  257  ff),  and'  Hystaspis  ((iJV,  ed  4,  III, 
592-95),  in  many  Talmudic  passages  (ZDMG,  XXI, 
552-!)!),  certain  customs  of  the  Essenes,  various 
anti-demoniac  charms  (see  EXORCISM;  SORCKRY), 
and,  perhaps,  in  the  feast  of  Purim.  And  the  st  ress 
laid' on  the  prophetic  ability  of  the  Magi  in  Mt  2 
1-12  is  certainly  not  without  significance.  But  the 
important  question  is  the  existence"  or  extent  of 
Mazdean  influence  on  the  formal  Jewish  religion. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  after  Israel's  contact  with 
Persia  the  following  elements,  all  known  to  Maz- 
deism, appear,  and  apparently  for  the 

3.  Possible    first    time:     (1)    a   formal   angelology, 
Theological   with  six  (or  seven)  archangels  at  the 
Influence       head  of  the  developed  hierarchy;    (2) 

these  angels  not  mere  companions  of 
Clod  but  His  intermediaries,  established  (often)  over 
special  domains;  (3)  in  the  philosophical  religion,  a 
corresponding  doct  rine  of  hypost  ases;  (4)  as  a  result , 
a  remoter  conception  of  God;  (5V  a  developed  demon- 
ology;  (ti)  t  lie  conception  of  a  supreme  head  (Satan) 
over  the  powers  of  evil;  (7)  the  doctrine  of  immor- 
tality; (S)  rewards  or  punishments  for  the  soul  im- 
mediately after  death;  (9)  a  schematic  eschatology, 


Zoroastrianism 
Zuzim 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


3158 


esp.  ;is  regards  chronological  systems;  (10;  :i  super- 
human Messiah;  (11)  bodily  resurrection;  (12)  a 
rationalized,  legalistic  conception  of  God's  moral 
demands. 

In  this  list    Ma/dean  influence  may  be  taken  as 

certain  in  points  (1).  (2),  (5),  (6).     Of  course  belief 

in    angels   and   (still  more)  in  demons 

4.  Angel-       had    ahvays   existed    in    Israel,    and    a 
ology  and       tendency  to  classification  is  a  natural 
Demon-          product     of     increased     culture.     But 
ology  the  thoroughness  and  rapidity  of  the, 

process  and  the  general  acceptance  of 
its  principles  >how  something  more  than  cultural 
growth  (cf  the  influence  of  pseudo-Dionysius  on 
Christianity).  In  particular,  the  doctrine,  of  pa- 
trons (angelic  or  demoniac)  seems  to  find  no  ex- 
pression in  the  preexilic  religion.  Nor  was  the 
incorporation  into  a  single  being,  not  only  of  phases, 
but  of  the  whole  power  of  evil,  a  necessary  growth 
from  the  earlier  religion;  the  contrast  between 
2  S  24  land!  Ch  21  1  shows  a  sharp  alteration  in 
viewpoint.  On  the  other  hand,  the  dualism  that 
Ahriman  was  to  explain  produced  no  effect  on  Israel, 
and  (lod  remained  the  Creator  of  all  things,  even 
of  Satan.  See  SATAN;  ANTICHRIST,  (3)  presents 
a  problem  that  still  needs  proper  analysis.  The 
Zoroastrian  abstractions  may  well  have  stimulated 
Jewish  speculation.  Hut  the  influence  of  Cr 
thought  can  certainly  not  be  ignored,  and  a  ration- 
alizing process  applied  to  the  angelology  would 
account  for  the  purely  Jewish  growth  of  the  con- 
cepts. (4)  is  bound  up  to  some  degree  with  the 
above,  and  presents  the  most  unpleasant  feature 
of  the  later  Judaism.  Sharply  counter  to  prophetic 
and  pre-prophet  ic  teaching,  it  was  modified  by  the 
still  later  Talmudism.  Its  inconsistency  with  the 
teaching  of  Christ  needs  no  comment.  In  part, 
however,  it  may  well  have  been  due  to  the  genera! 
"transcendent alixing"  tendencies  of  the  intermedi- 
ate period.  See  (Ion;  SALVATION. 

It    is  possible,   similarly,   to  understand  the  ad- 
vanced Jewish  cschat ology  as  an  elaboration  and 
refinement    of  the  genuinely  prophetic 

5.  Escha-       Day  of  Jeh  concepts,  without   postu- 
tology  lat  ing  foreign  influence.      In  particular, 

a  doctrine  of  immortality  was  inevi- 
table in  Judaism,  and  the  Jewish  premises  were  of  a 
sort  that  made  a  resurrect  ion  belief  necessary.  The 
presence  of  similar  beliefs  in  Ma/deism  may  have 
hastened  the  process  and  helped  determine  the 
specific  form,  and  for  certain  del  ails  direct  borrowing 
is  quite  likely  (cf  the  twelve  periods  of  world-history 
in  Apoc  Abraham  29;  Syr  Bar  63  IT;  2  Esd  14). 
But  too  much  stress  cannot  be  laid  on  details.  The 
extant  1'ers  apocalypses  are  all  very  late,  and  liter- 
ary (if  not  religious)  influence  on  them  from  Chris- 
tian and  Jewish  sources  seems  inevitable  (for  the 
Bahman  Vast,  it,  is  certain).  Nor  could  the  effect 
of  the  Mazdean  eschatology  have  been  very  thor- 
ough. Of  its  two  most  cardinal  doctrines,  the 
Chinvat  Bridge  is  absent  from  Judaism,  and  the 
molten-metal  ordeal  is  referred  to  only  in  the  vaguest 
terms,  if  at.  all.  Indeed,  the  very  fact  that  certain 
doctrines  were  identified  with  the  "heathen"  may 
well  have  deterred  Jewish  acceptance.  See  PAHOI*- 
SIA;  KKsrimKCTioN. 

Similarly,  the  Messiah,  as  future  king,  was  iixed 
in  Jewish  belief,  and  His  elevation  to  celestial  posi- 

t  ion  was  an  inevitable  step  in  the  general 

6.  Messiah    refining  process.     The  I'crs  Saoshyant 

doctrine  may  well  have  helped,  and 
the  appearance  of  the  Messiah  "from  ....  the 
sea"  in  2  Esd  13  3  certainly  recalls  the  Maz- 
dean appearance  from  a  lake.  But  Saoshyant  is 
not  a  celestial  figure.  lie  has  no  existence  before 
his  final  appearance  (or  birth)  and  he  comes  from 
earth,  not  from  heaven.  The  Jewish  Son  of  man — 


Messiah  —  on  the  other  hand,  is  a  purely  celestial 
figure  and  (even  in  2  Esd  13)  existed  from  (or 
before)  creation.  The  birth  of  Saoshyant  from  the 
seed  of  Zoroaster  and  that  of  the  (non-celestial) 
Messiah  from  the  seed  of  David  have  no  connection 
whatever.  See  MESSIAH;  SON  OF  MAN. 

Xot  much  can   be  made  of  the   parallel   in   legalism. 

Nearly  every  religion  lias  gone  through  a  similar  legalistic 

state.     Tlie    practical    eudemonistie    out- 

7    TTtVii^c         look  of  such  works  as  Prov  and  Sir   (see 


WISDOM)  doubtless  have  analogies 
Ma/xleism,  and  the  comfortable  union  of 
religion  and  the  good  things  of  the  present  life  among  the 
Persians  may  well  have  had  an  effect  on  certain  of  the 
Jews,  esp.  as  the  Persians  preserved  a  good  ethical  stand- 
ard. But  only  a  part  of  Judaism  was  eudemonistic,  and 
Mazdean  and  Jewish  casuistry  aru  based  on  entirely 
distinct  principles. 

Summarizing,  about  the  most  that  can  be  asserted 
for  Mazdean  influence  is  that  it  left  its  mark  on  the 

angelology  and  demonology  and  that 
8.  Sum-  it  possibly  contributed  certain  escha- 
mary  tologicul  details.  Apart  from  this,  it 

may  well  have  helped  determine  the 
development  of  elements  already  present  in  Israel's 
faith.  On  the  common  people  (esp.  the,  more  super- 
stitious) its  influence  was  considerably  greater. 
But  there  is  nothing  in  the  formal  theology  of 
Judaism  that  can  be  described  as  "borrowed"  from 
Mazdean  teachings. 

XOTK.  —  There  is  almost  certainly  no  reference  to 
Mazdean  dualism  in  Isa  45  7. 

LITEKATUKK.  The  A  vest  a  is  in  SHK,  IV,  2:5,  :5I.  but 
the  (iathas  are  best  studied  in  L.  II.  Mills.  Tin  C&thu*  <>i 
Znnitliuxlitrii  (t'.KIOi;  Pahlayi  texts  in  SJiE,  V,  IS,  24, 
:-!7,  -17.  The  best  presentation  of  Mazdeism  is  in  Saus- 
saye's  Lehrbuch  der  R>  lii/ui/i.-oji^-liicttt,;  II,  102-2IW  (by 
I'M.  Lehmanm;  cf  the  arts.  "  /oroastrianism  "  in  EB 
((ieldner  and  Cheyne,)  and  11D1S  (,].  11.  Moulton,  excel- 
lent); on  the  relation  to  Judaism,  Stave,  L'lu-r  den 
Einfluss  clea  Parsismits  auf  das  Judt  nthum  (ISUSi;  Soder- 
hlom.  la  rie  future  il'n  prb*  /c  M  n  Z'lei  tine  (An.  Mils.  (Un- 

met, 1901,  needs  checking);  IJoklcn,  Die  \'crtc<in<lt*ckuft 
der  jud.-chr.  tint  der  parsischen  Eschatologie  (1902,  good 
material  but  very  uncritical);  L.  H.  Mills,  Our  Oirn 
Ifi-lii/ion  in  Ancient  Persia  (l'.»12.  theory  of  parallel  de- 
velopment; Ma/deisni  rather  idealized);  .1.  11.  Moulton, 
Kurt//  Zoroastrianism  (lliKij  and  arts,  by  T.  K.  Cheyne, 
Expos  T,  II,  202,  224.  248;  and  J.  H.  Moulton,  Expos  T, 
IX.  :552.  Kor  details  cf  Clemen,  Relitfionsueschichlliche 
Krkltirunt)  dfs  A"/'  (1!K)!>.  KT.  Primitive  Christianity  and 
I  l.t  nun-Jewish  Sourer*);  Bousset,  Rrlitjiiin  </t:s  Judenthums 
(ed  2,  1<>()(5)  ;  Off,  nbarung  Johannis  (l!)0ti)  ;  Haupt  problems 
di-r  Gnosis  (I'.tOT,  indispensable). 

B;  KTON  SCOTT  EASTON 

ZOROBABEL,  zo-rob'a-bel,  zd-ro'bu-bel  (Zopo- 
pdptX,  Zoriil/dlxi):  In  AV;  Or  form  of  "Zerub- 
babel,"  thus  HV  (Mt  1  12.13;  Lk  3  27). 

ZORZELLEUS,  zor-zel'e-us  (A,  Zop^XXe'os,  Zor- 
z<  Ileus,  B  [and  Swete],  ^crr^tXSaios,  Pftaczeldaios, 
Eritzsche,  Bep^eXXaios,  Bcrzt'lluiox;  A\"  Berzelus; 
H\'m  "Phae/eldaeus")  :  The  father  of  Augia,  the 
wife  of  Jaddus,  head  of  a  family  that  "usurped 
the  office  of  the  priesthood"  in  the  return  under 
Zerubbabel  (1  Esd  5  38);  "Barzillai"  of  Ezr  2  01; 
Neh  7  63.  See  BARZILLAI. 


ZUAR,  zu'iir,  zoo'ar  ("1^"'^,  fw'or,  "little  one"; 
SwYoip,  Sogdr):  Father  of  Nethanel  (Nu  1  8;  2  5; 
7  IS.  23;  10  15),  who  was  head  of  the  tribe  of  Is- 
sachar. 

ZUPH,  zuf  (r?j!  ,  fiiph,  "honeycomb"): 
(1)  According  to  1  S  1  16;  1  Ch  6  35  (Heb  ver 
20)  =  "Zophai"  of  1  Ch  6  26  (11),  an  ancestor  of 
Elkanah  and  Samuel.  But  Budde  and  Wellhausen 
take  it  to  be  an  adj.,  and  so  read  n2^  ,  filphl,  in  1  S 
1  Ib:  "Tohu  a  Zuphite,  an  Ephraimite."  It  should 
probably  be  read  also  in  ver  la:  "Now  there  was 
a  certain  man  of  the  Ilamathites,  a  Zuphite  of  the 
hill-country  of  Ephraim,"  as  the  Heb  construction 
in  the  first  part  of  the  verse  is  otherwise  unnatural. 
LXX  A  has  SOVTT,  Soup,  Luc.,  Sotf0,  Sou-ph,  in  1  S 


3159 


THE  INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


Zoroastrianism 
Zuzim 


1  \h;  1  Cli  6  2(>  (11),  B,  SoiK/jet,  Soi<i>ltt'i,  \,  Luc,., 
2ov(/>l,  Xouplri;  6  :i5  (20),  BA,Soiy0,  Xoiipti,  Luc., 
2ov<f>i,  Xotiphi,  Iv'thlbh,  wP2  ,  <;li>h. 

(2)  LXX  BA,  £eic/>,  ,SY?,p//,  Luc,.,  Si0d,  tilphA, 
"the  land  of  Zuph,"  ;i  district  in  Benjamin,  near  its 
northern  border  (I  S  9  5). 

DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 

ZUR,  zur  p*S,cw',  "rock"): 

(1)  A  prince  or  chief  (Nu  25  l">;  31  8)  of  Midian, 
father  of  the  woman  slain  with  Zimri  by  I'lunchas. 
Josh  13  21  describes  him  as  one  of  the  princes  of 
Sihon,  but  the  reference  there  is  regarded  as  a  gloss. 

(2)  An  inhabit  ant  of  (,'ibeon  (1  Cli  8  M;   9  :$<>), 
to  be  connected  probably,  according  to  Curtis,  with 
"Zeror"  of  1  S  9   1. 

ZURIEL,  zu'ri-el  (>SiP"V1£  ,  ciirl'el,  "my  rock  is  I'll 
[GodJ"j:  Trince  of  the  house  of  Merari  (Nu  3  35). 

Tlic  word  fur,  "rock,"  occurs  also  in  tlic  compound 
names  Klizur  (1  .">).  Zurishaddai  d  (>,  clci  and  Pedahzur 
(1  10).  Gray,  -V»,  (>,  says  that  a  Sabaean  name  fturi- 


'a'liliitui  is  found  in  an  insci-iption  said  to  !><•  of  (lie  stli 
cent.  15C.  or  somewhat  earlier  (Honunel,  \nri,nt  11,1, 
Tni'litinn,  H^Oi,  and  Tj^3  ,  li«r(;ur,  in  a  /iiijirli  in- 
scription of  tin1  Mil  cent..  IJC  (I'ananinm  Inscr.,  I.  1), 
and  that,  possibly  the  ( )T  place-name  "  Bet  h-znr"  should 
be  added  (Josh'  15  5S;  1  (Ml  2  45;  2  Ch  11  7:  Nell 
3  Ki;. 

DAVID  FRANCIS  ROBERTS 

ZURISHADDAI,  x.u-ri-shad'a-I,  /u-ri-shad'I 
("l~TL"1"1irl^ ,  £rirl.nh(ii/<lai/,  "my  rock  is  Shadday"): 
leather  of  Shehnniel  the  head  of  the  tribe  of  Simeon 
(Nu  1  (i;  2  12;  7  W>A\;  10  111)  See  COD,  NAMKS 
OF,  II,  S;  Zt  KII:L. 

ZUZIM,  /u'/.im  (-n"?"  ,  zilzlm:  'iQvr\  Icrxupd,  I'l/nnl 
ixcluira,  ''strong  nations."  So  .lerome  in  ()n<tc«t. 
Ilcbr.:  gentes  fortes) :  A  people  conquered  by  Chedor- 
laomer  ((.Jen  14  5).  They  dwelt  in  Hani,  a  region 
not  otherwise  known  but,  from  the  connection,  in- 
ferred to  be  10.  of  the  Jordan.  It  may  also  be 
inferred  that  they  were  a  race  of  giants.  They 
were  perhaps  to  be  identified  with  the  Zamzummim. 


INDEXES 

TO   THE 

INTERNATIONAL  STANDARD  BIBLE  ENCYCLOPAEDIA 


I.  CONTRIBUTORS       ............ 

II.  GENERAL  INDEX   ...........  3171 

III.  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS       .....                         ...  3407 

IV.  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS        .            ....  3448 
V.  GREEK  WORDS      ....  3o()2 

VI.  ILLUSTRATIONS       ......  3507 

VII.  MAPS  3.-V28 


INDEX  OF  CONTRIBUTORS 

NAMES  OF  AUTHORS  AND  TITLES  OK  THKIR  PRINCIPAL  ARTICLES 


ALKXAXDKK,  RKV.  AKCIIIUALD,  B.I).,  M.A.,  D.I)., 
Clergyman  of  I'nited  Free  Church  of  Scotland; 
Late  Lecturer  on  Christian  Ethics  in  I'nited  I''ree 
College,  Clasgew. 

Creed  (Creeds),  Ethics,  Logos. 

ALLKX,  GEORGE  II.,  Pir.D.,  Editor  of  the  "Forum 
Conrhe,  or  Fuero  I)c  Cuenca,  the  Mediaeval 
Charter  and  By-laws  of  the  City  of  Cuenca, 
Spain";  Craiul  Rapids,  Michigan. 

Army  (Roman).  Italy,  Procurator,  Province, 
Roman  Law,  Rome,  and  other  articles. 

AxnERseix,  RKV.  FREDERICK  LixceiLX,  M.A.,  D.D., 
Professor  of  New  Testament  Interpretation,  New- 
ton Theological  Institution,  Newton  Centre, 
Massachusetts. 

Temptation  of  Christ,  Washing  of  Feet. 

ANGUS,  RKV.  S.,  M.A.,  Pn.D.,  Professor  of  New 
Testament  Theology  and  Church  History  in  St. 
Andrew's  College1,  University  of  Sydney,  Aus- 
tralia. 

Nahataeans,  Nanaea,  Nero,  Nicanor,  Onias, 
Ptolemy,  Roman  Empires  and  Christianity, 
Tiberius,  Tryphon,  Vulgate,  and  other  articles. 

ARMSTRONG,  WILLIAM  P.,  M.A.,  Professor  of  New 
Testament  Literature  and  Exegesis  in  Princeton 
Theological  Seminary,  Princeton,  New  Jersey. 
Chronology  of  the  New  Testament. 

BANKS,  EDGAR  J.,  Pn.D.,  Formerly  Professor  of 
Ancient  History  in  Robert.  College,  Constanti- 
nople, Turkey,  and  Field  Director  of  the  Baby- 
lonian Expedition  of  the  University  of  Chicago; 
Author  of  various  publications;  Greenfield, 
Massachusetts. 

Asia  (Roman  Province1),  Assos,  Colossae,  Diana 
(Artemis),  Halicarnassus,  Hicrapolis,  Pam- 
phylia,  Perga,  Phrygia,  Seven  Churches  (sepa- 
rate articles),  Sherghat  (Asshur),  Troas,  and 
ot  her  art  ides. 

BAUR,  REV.  WILLIAM,  Professor  of  Church  History, 
Eden  Seminary,  St.  Louis,  Missouri. 

Balaam,  Ishmael,  Jubilee  Year,  Princes  Queen 
Mother,  Reign,  Ruler,  Sabbatical  Year,  anel 
other  articles. 

BAUSLIN,  RKV.  DAVID  IT.,  D.D.,  Dean  and  Professor 
eif  Historical  and  Practical  Theology,  Hamma 
Divinity  School,  Witte'iibeTg  Colle-ge,  Springfield, 
Ohio. 

(Jospel,  Preacher  (Preaching). 

P).\vi.V('K,  HKRMAV,  D.Tu.,  Professor  eif  Dogmatic 
Theeileigy  at  the  Free'  Fnive-rsity  in  Amsterdam, 
The1  Netherlands. 

Death,  Fall  (The). 

Bi:i;e'iiKR,  the  late  RKV.  WILLIS  Jrnsox,  M.A., 
D.D.,  Formerly  Professor  of  Hebre'W  Language1 
and  Literal  lire  in  Auburn  Theological  Seminary; 
Authea1  and  Writer  for  various  publications; 
Auburn,  New  Yeirk. 

Abadelem,  Abarim,  Abi,  Abiathar,  Abijah, 
Achor,  Adullam,  Ahimelech,  Chronicles  (Books 
of),  Ecclesiastes,  Korah,  Korahites,  anel  many 
other  articles. 


BERRY,  ( iKoiteiK  RICKKK,  I). I).,  Pu.D.,  Profe'ssor  ejf 
Semitic  Language's  in  Ceilgate  Fniversily,  Ham- 
ilton, New  York. 

Cewnant    in    the    Old    Testament ,    and    other 

articles. 

BETTERIDGK,  RKV.  WALTER  R.,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Hebrew  an<l  Old  Testament  Inter- 
pretatiem  in  the  Re>chester  Theological  Seminary, 
Rochester,  Ne'w  York. 

Creditor,  (lleiry,   (lods    (Strange;,    Preparation 

(The1),  and  otheT  article's. 

BKVAX,  RKV.  LLEWELYN  I).,  LL.B.,  D.D.,  Prin- 
cipal of  Parkin  College,  Adelaide,  Kent  Town, 
Australia. 

Christ  (Exaltatiem  of),  Christ  (Offices  of), 
Intercession,  Intercession  of  Christ,  Lamb  of 
Goel,  Prayers  of  Jesus. 

BISHOP,  RKV.  WILLIAM  S.,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Formerly 
Professor  of  Dogmatic  Theology,  Lniversity  of 

the;  South  at  Sewanee,  Tennessee';    East  Orange, 
Ne'W  Je>rsev. 

Baptismal  Regeneration  (Anglican  Standpoint). 

Be>vn,  RKV.  JAMKS  OSCAR,  B.D.,  Pu.D.,  Assistant 
Pre)fess.>r  of  Oriental  and  Old  Testament  Lite-r- 
at are;  in  Prince-tern  Theological  Seminary,  Prince- 
ton, Ne-w  Jersey. 

Abraham,  Arabic  Language,  Isaac,  Jacob, 
Laban,  Lot,  R.ebekah,  Sarah,  and  other  articles. 

BitKSLirii,  ARTIIFK  Louis,  B.D.,  Pn.D.,  President 
of  Baldwin-Wallace  College  and  Nast  Theo- 
logical Seminary,  Ii(>rea,  Ohio. 

Amariah,  Baasha,  Bacchides,  Bathsheba, 
Damage1,  De>sire',  (ioel,  Hallelujah,  Ishbe>sheth, 
and  many  shorter  artiedes. 

CALDKCOTT,   RKV.   W.   SHAW,    M.R.A.S.,    Member 
of   the   ^'esleyan   Conferences   of   Great    Britain 
and  South  Africa;    Bournemouth,  Englanel. 
Aha/,     Altar,     Ama/iah,     Athaliah,     Jehoash, 
Je'roboam  II,  TabeM'iiacle  (Historical),  Temple 
(Historical),  anel  other  articles. 

('ALDER,  WILLIAM  M.,  M.A.,  Pre>fessor  of  Greek 
and  Le'c.turer  in  Christian  10])igra.i)hy  in  the 
I'liiversity  of  Manchester,  Manchester,  Eng- 
lanel. 

Antiexih  of  Pisielia,  Asia  Minor,  Cauda,  Crete, 
Derbe',  le'emium,  Lycaonia,  Lystra,  Phoenix, 
Pisidia. 

CARVER,  WILLIAM  OWK.V,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Tn.D., 
LL.D.,  Pre)l'essor  of  Comparative  Religion  and 
Missions,  and  Associate  Prof(>ssor  of  Ne-w 
Testament  Interpretation,  in  the1  Southern  Bap- 
tist Theological  Seminary,  Lemisville,  Kentucky. 

Atonement,    Keys    (Power    of),    Propitiation, 

Truth,  anel  LI  i'e'W  shorter  articles. 

CAVERNO,    RKV.    CHARLKS,    M.A.,    D.D.,    LL.D., 

Author  and   retiree  I   Clergyman   of   the-   Cemgiv- 
gational  Church;  Lombard,  Illinois. 

Be'aiitv,    Diveirce   in    NT,    Family,    Polygamy, 

Purity. 


3163 


3164 


INDEX  OF  CONTRIBUTORS 


CHRISTIE,  RKV.  WILLIAM  M.,  Missionary  to  Jews, 
Glasgow,  and  Examiner  in  Turkish,  Glasgow 
University,  Glasgow,  Scotlan<l. 

Ilanialii,  Jnn,  Nazirite,  Seleucia,  Syria,  Zobah, 
and  ot  her  art  ides. 

CLAY,  ALBERT  'I'.,  Pii.D.,  LL.D.,  Lallan  Professor 
of  Assy rio logy  and  Babylonian  Literature,  ^  ale 
I'niversity,  and  Curator  of  the  Babylonian  Col- 
lection, New  Haven,  Connecticut. 

Ashurbanipal,  Babel  (Babylon).  Babylonia, 
Ksar-haddon,  Sargon,  Sennacheril),  I'r  of  the 
Chaldees. 

CLIPPIXUER,   WALTER  GILLAX,   15. A.,   D.D.,   Presi- 
dent   of    Otterbcin  I'liiversity,  and    Lecturer  on 
Psychology    and    Education,    Westerville,    Ohio. 
Blood,  Dream  (Dreamer;,  Ecce  Homo,  Friend 
(Friendship),  Obedience,   Rab-mag,  Rab-saris, 
Rabshakeh,  and  a  few  other  .short  articles. 

COBERN,  REV.  CAMDEX  M.,  D.D.,  Pii.D.,  Professor 
of  English  Bible  and  Philosophy  of   Religion  in 
Allegheny  College,   Meadville,   Pennsylvania. 
Alexandria,  Calf  (Golden*.  Ethiopia,  Idolatry, 
Images,       Palestine       (Recent     Exploration), 
Tahpanhes,  Zerah  (The  Ethiopian). 

COITOX,  RABBI  SAMCEL  S.,  B.A.,  Zion  Temple, 
Chicago,  Illinois. 

Alliance,  Aner,  Aran,  Ashlmr,  Ass,  Barak, 
Ben-ammi. 

COXDKH,  the  late  COL.  CLATDK  REH;XIER,  LL.D., 
M.R.A.S.,  Cheltenham,  England. 

Baal-zephon,  Etham,  Exodus  (The1'),  Goshen, 
llittites,  Migdol.  Palestine,  Pilhom,  Punon, 
Raamses,  Sliur,  Sinai,  Succoth,  Wanderings  of 
Israel,  Zoan. 

COTTON,   RKV.   JESSK   L.,    D.D.,   Professor  of  Old 
Testament    Exegesis   in    the    Presbyterian   Theo- 
logical Seminary,   Louisville,   Kentucky. 
Hiram,  Ilobab,  and  other  articles. 

Cmv.vx,  REV.  HEXRY,  D.D.,  Professor  of  Church 
History  in  the  University  of  Aberdeen,  Aberdeen, 
Scotland. 

Literature  (Sub-apostolic  Christian). 

CRAXXELL,  REV.  PHILIP  WEVDKLL,  D.D.,  Presi- 
dent, of  Kansas  City  Baptist  Theological  Semi- 
nary, and  Professor  of  Homiletics  and  Pastoral 
Theology,  Kansas  City,  Kansas. 

Clean,  Cleanse,  Defilement,  Excommunication, 
Father,  Genealogy,  Hallow  (Hallowed),  Obe- 
dience of  Christ,  Worship,  and  other  articles. 

CRICHTOX,  REV.  JAMES,  B.D.,  M.A..  Minister  of 
the  United  Free  Church,  Chapelhall,  Airdrie, 
Scotland. 

Gedaliah,  Geha/i.  Hagar,  Jair,  Jareb,  Jethro, 
Messiah,  Sons  of  God  (OT),  and  otlier  articles. 

DAU,  W.  II.  T.,   Professor,  Concordia  Theological 
Seminary    (Dogmatics,    English    Bibles;     Editor 
"The  Theological  Quarterly,"  St.  Louis,  Missouri. 
Baptism   (Lutheran    Doctrine),   Baptismal  Re- 
generation, Lord's  Supper. 

DAVIKS,  REV.  T.  WITTOX,  B.A.,  D.D.,  PH. I)., 
Professor  of  Semitic  Languages  in  the  University 
College  at  Bangor,  North  Wales. 

Apocrypha  and  the  Books  of,  Divination, 
Magic,  Poetry  (Hebrew),  Witchcraft,  and 
other  articles. 

DAVIKS,  RKV.  WILLIAM  WALTER,  M.A.,  Pii.D., 
Professor  of  Hebrew,  Ohio  Wesleyan  University, 
Delaware,  Ohio. 

Absalom,  Asa,  Attitudes,  Azariah,  Divorce 
in  OT,  Nabal,  Nahash,  and  a  number  of  shorter 
articles. 


DAVIS,  RKV.  JOHX  D.,  D.D.,  Pii.D.,  LL.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Oriental  and  Old  Testament  Literature, 
Princeton  Theological  Seminary,  Princeton,  New 
Jersey. 

Antediluvian  Patriarchs,  Xames  (Proper). 

DAY,  ALFRED  ELY,  M.A.,  M.Sc.,  Professor  of 
Natural  Sciences  in  the  Syrian  Protestant  College, 
Beirut ,  Syria. 

Geology,  Natural  Features,  Zoology,  and  a 
large  number  of  articles  on  related  subjects. 

DE.ME.VT,  REV.  BYROX  H.,  Tn.D.,  D.D.,  Professor 
Sunday     School     Pedagogy,     Southern     Baptist 
Theological  Seminary,   Louisville,  Kentucky. 
Repentance,  Teaching,  and  other  articles. 

DICKIE,  ARCHIBALD  CAMPBELL,  M.A.,  F.S.A., 
A.H.I.B.A..  Architect  and  Assistant,  Secretary 
of  Palestine  Exploration  Fund;  London,  Eng- 
land. 

Arch,    Architecture,    Building,    Cistern,    City, 

House,  Ledge,  Lodge,  Loft. 

DICKIE,  REV.  JOHX,  M.A.,  Professor  of  Systematic 

Theology    and    New    Testament     Language    and 

Exegesis  in  Knox  College,  Dunedin,  New  Zealand. 

Christian,      Christianity      (in      Principle     and 

Essence). 

DOOLAX,  REV.  LEOXARD  W.,  B.A.,  Tn.D.,  Pastor 
of  First  Baptist  Church,  Bowling  Green,  Ken- 
tucky. 

Ornament,  Superstition,  and  other  article's. 

DUSKER,    REV.    HEXRY    E.,    M.A.,    D.D.,    LL.D., 

Professor  of  Church  History  in  the  Presbyterian 
Seminary  of  Kentucky,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 
Asmoneans,  Between  the  Testaments,  Bishop 
(General),  Cross,  Herod,  Lord's  Supper  (His- 
torical), Nazarene,  Strange  Fire,  and  other 
articles. 

DOWXER,  BKX.IAMIX  REXO,  B.A.,  Professor  of 
Hebrew  and  Old  Testament,  Kansas  City  Theo- 
logical Seminary,  Kansas  City,  Kansas. 

Cupbearer,  Cushion,  Dish,  Door,  Hangings, 
Hearth,  Home,  and  other  articles. 

DTXELM,  HAXDLEY.      (See  Motile,  II.  C.  G.) 

DTXOAX,   DAVID  ROBERTS,   M.A.,  LL.D.,  Author; 

1  )es  Moines,  Iowa. 

Evil,  Evil  One,  Evil  Thing,  Transgression, 
Trespass,  Wickedness. 

EA<;KR,  REV.  GEOR<;E  B.,  M.A.,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Biblical  Introduction  and  Pastoral 
Theology  in  the  Southern  Baptist  Theological 
Seminary,  Louisville1,  Kentucky. 

Ablution,  Abomination,  Abstinence,  Alms 
and  Almsgiving,  Anointing,  Banking,  Ban- 
quet, Barber,  Basin,  Basket,  Beard,  Bed, 
Bread,  Burial,  Buying,  Cremation,  Dress, 
Embalming,  Marriage,  Meals,  and  numerous 
other  articles. 

EASTOV,  REV.  Bnrrox  SCOTT,  D.D.,  PH.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  New  Testament  Exegesis,  Western 
Theological  Seminary,  Chicago,  Illinois.  Assist- 
ant to  the  Managing  Editor  in  the  preparation  of 
this  Encyclopaedia. 

American  Revised  Version,  Apostolic  Age, 
Criticism  (Graf-Wellhausen  Hypothesis),  Grace, 
Hope,  Hospitality,  Kenosis,  Judgment  (Last), 
Parousia,  Pauline  Theology,  Resurrection, 
Salvation,  Saviour,  Tongues  (Gift  of),  Tongues 
(Confusion  of),  Tools,  Trade,  Versions  (Georg- 
ian, Gothic,  Slavonic),  Wine1,  Wisdom,  Zoroas- 
trianism;  numerous  briefer  articles. 


INDEX  OF  CONTRIBUTORS 


EDWARDS,  REV.  DAVID  MIALL,  M.A.,  Professor  of 
Doctrinal  Theology  and  Philosophy  of  Religion 
at  the  Memorial  College  (Congregational), 
Brecon,  Soul  h  \\'alcs. 

Adoration,  Affection,  Affliction,  Ananias, 
Annas,  Drink  (Strong),  linage,  Iniquity,  Joy, 
Mediation  (Mediator),  Mystery,  Ordination, 
Ruca,  Savor,  Seal,  and  other  articles. 

EISKLE.V,  RKV.  FREDERICK  C.,  D.D.,  Pn.D  ,  Pro- 
fessor of  Semitic  Languages  and  Old  Testament 
Exegesis,  (larrett  Biblical  Institute,  Kvanston, 
Illinois. 

Flabakkuk,     Xahuni     (Hook     of),     /ephaiiiah 

(Book  ofj,  and  other  articles. 

ESTKS,  RKV.  DAVID  FOSTER,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  New  Testament  Interpretation,  Colgate 
University,  Hamilton,  \e\vYork. 

Covenant  (in  NTi,  Priesthood  (in  NT),  and 
other  art  ides. 

EVA.VS,  REV.  AKTIITK  WALWYX,   Lately   Pastor  of 
First.  Congregational  Church,  Springfield,  Ohio. 
Daysman,     Irnmanuel,     Triumph,     and     other 
articles. 

EVANS,  MORRIS  ().,  D.D.,  PH.]).,  Minister  of 
Lawrence  Street  Congregational  Church,  Cin- 
cinnati, Ohio;  Formerly  Lecturer  on  English 
Bible  and  Literature  at  the  Independent  College. 
Bangor,  North  Wales.  Managing  Editor  of  this 
Encyclopaedia. 

Abel,  Abolish,  Accord,  Adam  (Books  of),  All, 
Aneni,  Aristobulns,  Asiarch,  Bank,  Beholding, 
Bloody,  Doxology,  CJulf,  Totemism,  and 
numerous  other  signed  and  unsigned  art  ides. 

EVAXS,  REV.  WILLIAM,  D.D.,  Lecturer  and  Asso- 
ciate Dean  of  the  Bible  Institute  of  Los  Angeles, 
California. 

Covetousness,    Debt,    Extortion,    Forerunner, 

Lying,  Poverty,  Sons  of  God  (in  XT),  Wealth, 
and  other  articles. 

EWI.VI;,  REV.  WILLIAM,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Minister  of 
Grange  United  Free  Church,  Edinburgh,  Scotland. 
Bashan,  Bethsaida,  Capernaum,  Decapolis, 
Edom,  Galilee,  Gennesaret  (Land  of),  Gilead, 
Ilermon,  Judah,  Kenites,  Midian,  Peraea, 
Pisgah,  Samaria,  Shephelah,  Tiberias,  Trachoni- 
tis,  and  a  large  number  of  other  article's  (mainly 
topographical). 

FAIUHAXKS,  ARTHUR,  Pn.D.,  Lrrr.D.,  Director 
of  the  Museum  of  Fine  Arts,  Boston,  Massa- 
chusetts. 

Greece  (Religion  in  Ancient). 

FARMER,  JONES  HUGHES,  B.A.,  LL.D.,  Dean  in 
Theology  and  Professor  of  New  Testament  and 
Patristic  Greek,  McMaster  University,  Toronto, 

Canada. 

Mark  (John),  Mark  (Gospel  of). 

FARR,  F.  K.,  D.D.,  Professor  of  New  Testament 
Exegesis  and  Introduction,  Lane  Seminary, 
Cincinnat  i,  ( )hio. 

Adam  in  OT  and  Apocrypha,  Cam,  Elijah,  and 
other  articles. 

FATLKXER,  REV.  JOHN  ALFRED,  M.A.,   D.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Historical  Theology,   Drew  Theological 
Seminary,  Madison,  New  Jersey. 
Justificat  ion. 

FIXDLAY,    REV.    ADAM    FYKE,    M.A.,    Minister    of 
Bristo  Unit.ed  Free  Church,  Edinburgh,  Scotland. 
Apocryphal  Acts. 

FIXDLAY,  REV.  GEORGE  GILLAXDERS,  M.A.,  D.D., 
Professor     of     New     Testament      Exegesis     and 
Classics  at  Headingley  College,   Leeds,  England. 
Galatians  (Epistle  to). 


FLETCHER,  LA/ARCS.  M.A.,  Pn.l).,   LL.D.,   F.R.S., 

Director    Natural    History    Departments    of    the 
British   Museum,   London,  S.W.,  England. 
Stones  (Precious). 

FORRESTER,  REV.  ELDRED  .li>n\,  B.A.,  D.D.,  Head 
of  the  Department  of  the  Bible  and  Lecturer  in 
American  History,  Mercer  I  niversitv,  Macon, 
<  ieorgia. 

Church  Government,  Esau,  Innocence,  Jeal- 
ousy, Reverence,  and  other  articles. 

FORTUNE,  PROF.  A.W.,  B.I).,  M.A.,  Department  of 
New  Testament,  in  the  College  of  the  Bible, 
Lexington,  Kent  ucky . 

Alphaeus,  Babylon  in  NT,  Children  of  Israel, 
Deutero-canonical  Books,  Eve  in  NT,  and 
other  art  ides. 

Fn/rox,  A.  S.,  M.A.,  Assistant  in  the  Department 
of  Oriental  Printed  Books  and  MSS,  British 
Museum,  London. 

Havilah,  Kedar,  Nebaioth,  Ophir,  and  other 
art  ides. 

GEDE.V,  REV.  ALFRED  S.,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Professor 
of  Old  Testament  Languages  and  Literature  and 
of  Comparative  Religion  at  the  Wesleyan  College, 
Richmond,  Surrey,  England. 

Joshua,  Judges,  Ruth,  Samuel,  and  the  Books 

corresponding  to  those  names. 

GKNUXG,  REV.  JOHN  FRAN-KLIN",  D.D.,  L.H.D., 
Pu.l).,  Professor  of  Literary  and  Biblical  Inter- 
pretation, Amherst  College,  Amherst,  Massa- 
chusetts. 

Adam  in  OT,  lle/ekiah  and  all  succeeding 
kings  of  Judah,  Job,  Job  (Book  of),  Proverb. 
Proverbs  (Book  of),  and  other  articles. 

GERBEKDIXC;,  REV.  G.  II.,  M.A.,  I). I).,  Professor 
of  Practical  Theology  in  the  Theological  Seminary 
of  the  Evangelical  Lutheran  Church,  May  wood, 
Illinois. 

Catediist     (Catechumen),    Rehearse.    Search, 

Train,  and  several  brief  articles. 

GOODSPEED,  EIHJAR  J.,   Pn.D.,  Associate  Professor 
of  Biblical  and  Patristic  Greek,  The  I'niversity  of 
Chicago,  Chicago,  Illinois. 
Ostraca,  Papyrus. 

GRAXT,  RKV.  ALEXANDER  C.,  M.A.,  Missionary  of 
the  United  Free  Church  of  Scotland,  Rajputana, 
India. 

Eber,  Elder  (in  NT),  Eli,  and  a  few  brief 
articles. 

GRAY,  REV.  JAMES  M.,.  D.D.,  Minister  in  the 
Reformed  Episcopal  Church,  Dean  of  Moody 
Bible  Institute,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

Bless,  Desired  of  All  Nations,  Evangelist, 
Experience,  Peter  (Simon),  and  other  articles. 

GIMMKV,  RKV.  HKN-RY  RILKY,  JR.,  M.A.,  D.D., 
Rector  of  St.  .James'  Church,  Chaplain  to  the 
Bishop  of  Pennsylvania,  Downington,  Penn- 
sylvania. 

Lord's  Supper  (Eucharist). 

HARRY,  JOSEPH  EDWARD,  Pu.l).,  Professor  of 
Greek,  University  of  Cincinnati,  Cincinnati, 
Ohio. 

Achaia,  Almost,   Antiochus  I-VI1,  Areopagus, 

Athens,  Corinth,  Dionysus  (Bacchus;,  Patmos, 
Searching  the  Scriptures,  and  other  articles. 

HAVES.  DOREMUS  ALMY,  Pn.D.,  S.T.D.,  LL.D., 
Professor  of  New  Testament  Interpretation, 
The  Graduate  School  of  Theology,  Garret t  Bibli- 
cal Institute,  Evanston,  Illinois. 

James  (Epistle  ofj,  Philippians  (Epistle  to). 


3100 


INDEX  OF  CONTRIBUTORS 


HKIDKL,    WILLIAM     Airnnu,     M.A.,     Pn.D.,    Pro- 
fessor of  (live1;    Language  and    Literature,   \\es- 
leyan  I'liiversiiy,   Middletown,  ( 'mined  icut . 
'Colony,    Government,    Greece    (Graecia),    Hel- 
lenism  (  Hellenist  ),   Mediterranean  Sea,  Senate 
(Senator),  and  other  articles. 

HiKsni.  l!i:v.  FUA.XK  E.,  M.A.,  D.I).,  LL.D., 
Formerly  President  Charles  City  College,  Charles 
(,'ity,  Iowa;  Pastor  of  Dayton's  Bluff  (Ger.) 
Methodist  Episcopal  Church,  St.  Paul,  Minne- 


Courts  (Judicial),  Crimes,  Inherit  mice,  Law 
(Judicial  i,  Lawyer,  Punishments,  Scribes, 
Tribute,  and  numerous  other  articles. 

IIoixiK,  RKV.  CASPAR  WISTAH,  Pn.D.,  Assistant 
Professor  of  Systematic  Theology,  Princeton 
Theological  Seminary,  Princeton,  New  Jersey. 

Faithfulness,       Foreknowledge,       Imputation, 

Unchangeableness. 

Hor<;H,    RKV.    1-vx.v    HAROLD.    H.A.,    D.D.,    Pro- 
fessor of    Historical   Theology,    Clarrett     Biblical 
Institute,  Kvanston,  Illinois. 
Servant,  of  Jehovah  (.the  Lord). 

HOVKV,  RKV.  GKOR<;K  HICK,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Presi- 
dent of  Virginia  I'liion  I'niversity,  and  Professor 
of  Theology,  Richmond,  Virginia. 

Doorkeeper,  Firepan,  Flagon,  Hadad,  and 
ot  her  art  ides. 

Hi  \TKK,  PVKV.  S.  F.,  M.A.,  15.1).,  Minister  of  St. 
Stephen's  Presbyterian  Church,  Ips\vich,  Queens- 
land, and  Lecturer  in  Old  Testament  Language 
and  Exegesis  in  Emmanuel  College,  Brisbane, 
within  the  I'niversity  of  Queensland,  Queens- 
land, Aust  ralia. 

Ahava,  Array,  Asunder,  Bar-Jesus,  Bethabara, 
Elea/.ar,  Epaphras,  Lydia,  Philip  (Evangelist), 
and  a  large  number  of  the  shorter  articles. 

IlrTcmsnx,  Joiix,  M.A.,  LL.D.,  Rector  Emeritus 
of.  the  High  School  of  Glasgow,  Scotland. 

English  Versions  of  the  Bible,  Apocryphal 
and  Other  Early  Gospels,  and  numerous  other 
art  ides. 

ISAACS,  MRS.  ELLA  DAVIS,  M.A.,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 
Family  Relationships  (parti.  Feasts  and  Fasts, 
Fringes,  (lershon  i  (lershonites),  Linen,  Sham- 
gar,  and  ol  her  art  ides.  * 

ISAACS,  NATHAN,  I.L.B.,  M.A.,  Pii.D..  Professor  of 
La\v,  I'niversity  of  Cincinnati  and  Cincinnati 
Law  School.  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  Assistant  Editor 
of  this  Encyclopaedia  in  the  Hebrew  Language. 

Family    Relationships    (part),    Gallery,    Order. 

Passover,  Primogeniture,  Rahab.  Sceptre,  Trim 

and  Tliummim,  and  other  articles. 

IVKIIACII,  RKV.  JAMKS,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Principal  ami 
Professor  of  New  Testament  Language  and  Liter- 
ature in  t  he  I'nit  ed  Free  Church  College,  Aberdeen, 
Scotland. 

(lospels  (The  Synoptic),  John  (The  Apostle), 
John  (Gospel  of,). 

JACOBS,  RKV.  HKVRY  E.,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  Author  and 
Fditor  of  Commentaries,  etc;  Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. 

Absolution,  Andronicus,  Appeal,  Barnabas, 
Brethren  of  the  Lord,  Chastening  (Chastise- 
ment), Community  of  Goods,  Confession, 
Heresy,  Temperance,  and  numerous  other 
articles. 

JOY,  ALFRKD  1L,  Pn.B.,  M.A.,  F.R.A.S.,  Professor 
of  Astronomy  and   Director  of  the  Observatory, 
Syrian  Protestant   College,  Beirut,  Syria. 
'Cloud,  Dew,  Earthquake,  Heat,  Mirage,  Rain, 
Snow,  Weather,  and  similar  art  ides. 


KAISKH,  LKWIS,  Professor  of  ( )ld  Testament  and  Life 
of  Christ  in  the  German  Department  of  Rochester 
Theological  Seminary,  Rochester,  New  York. 
Book  of  Life,  Cruelty,  and  other  articles. 

K.MM-,  RKV.  JACOB  \\  .,  M.A.,  I). I).,  Pastor  of  First 
Knglish  Lutheran  Church,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 
Aeon,    Atheism,    Benediction,    Boy,   and   other 
art  ides. 

KKKK,  RKV.  COLIV  M.,  B.Sc.,  B.I).,  M.A.,  PH.!)., 
Minister  of  Church  of  Scotland  at  Kettins, 
Coupar  Angus,  Scotland;  Formerly  Professor 
of  Political  Philosophy  in  Scottish  Churches 
College,  Calcutta. 

Biographical  articles  on  Andrew.  Bartholomew, 
Caiaphas.  Gamaliel,  Judas  Iscariot,  Nicodemns, 
Thomas,  and  others. 

KIXSKLLA,  AiiTurn  JAMKS,  M.A.,  Instructor  in 
( Ireek,  I'liiversity  of  Cincinnati,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 
Assistant  Editor  of  this  Encyclopaedia  in  the 
(Ireek  Language. 

Demetrius,  Samos,  Samothrace,  and  other 
articles. 

KM DSOX,  RKV.  ALBKRTC.,  D.D..  PH.D.,  Professor 
of  Hebrew  and  Old  Testament  Exegesis  in  Boston 
I  niversitv  School  of  Theology,  Boston,  Massa- 
chusetts. 

Judges  (Period  of). 

KCKT/,  RKV.  DAXIKL  WKHSTKK,  M.A.,  D.D., 
President  of  McPherson  College,  McPherson, 
Kansas. 

Lord's  Supper  (according  to  the  Church  of 
the  Brethren,  otherwise  called  Dunkers), 
Trine  (.Triune)  Immersion,  Washing  of  F'eet. 

KYLK,  RKV.  PROF.  MKLVIX  GKOVK,  D.D.,  LL.D., 

IVrmanent  .Lecturer  on  Biblical  Archaeology 
in  Xenia  Theological  Seminary;  Archaeological 
Kditor  of  the  Sunday  School  Times,  Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. 

Archaeology  and  Criticism,  Ir-ha-heres,  Joseph, 
Moses,  Nile,  On  ( Ileliopolisi,  Pharaoh,  Plagues 
of  Egvpt,  Tell  d-Amarna  Tablets,  and  other 
art  ides. 

LAMBERT,  RKV.  J.  C.,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Minister  of  the 
I'nited  l'"ree  Church  of  Scotland,  Braehetids, 
Fenwick,  Scotland. 

Agap<>,  A])ostle,  Beatitudes,  Church,  Healing 
(Gifts  of).  Holiness,  Praise,  Prayer,  Sacra- 
ments, Spiritual  Gifts. 

LAW,  RKV.  ROHKHT,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Professor  of  New 
Testament  Literature,  Knox  College,  Toronto, 
( >ntario,  Canada. 

Fleet  Lady,  Johannine  Theology,  John  (Epis- 
tles of). 

I.LF.S,  Pvi:v.  JOHV  A.,  Pastor  of  St.  James'  Congre- 
gational Church,  Hamilton,  Scotland. 

Magog,  Michael,  Michal,  Miriam,  Naaman, 
Nadab,  Nethinim,  and  many  other  articles. 

LF.VKRTOFF,  PAUL,  B.D.,  Professor  of  Old  Testa- 
ment and  Talmudic  Literature  at  Institutum 
Delitzschianum  at  Leip/.ig,  Germany. 

First-fruits,  Judge,  Oath,  Proselyte,  Sanhedrin, 
Synagogue,  Tithe,  Vow,  Witness. 

LKWIS,  CHARLKS  SMITH,  B.A..  B.D.,  Professor  of 
New  Testament  in  the  Western  Theological 
Seminary,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

Colossians  (Epistle  to),  Ephesians  (Epistle  to), 

Philemon  (Epistle  to). 

LKWIS,  REV.  THOMAS,  B.D.,  M.A.,  Principal  of 
Memorial  College  (Congregational),  Brecon, 
South  Wales. 

Blindness  (Judicial),  Curse,  Fasting,  Nursing, 

Ordinance,  Prison,  and  other  articles. 


INDEX  OF  CONTRIBUTORS 


3107 


LINDSAY,  Rev.  JAMKS,  B.Sc.,  M.A.,  D  I)    V  R  S  L 
F.R.S.K.,    F.G.S.,     M.R.A.S.,    Theological    and 
Philosophic  Author;  Irvine,  Scotland. 
Anthropomorphism,   Biblical  Theology,   Crea- 
tion,   Creature,    Eternal,    Eternity,    Prodosti- 
nat  ion. 

LINDSAY,  the  late  REV.  THOMAS  M.,  M.A.,  D.I.)., 
LL.D.,  Principal  and  Professor  of  Church  His- 
tory in  United  Free  Church  College,  Glasgow, 
Scotland. 

Baptism   (Non-Immersionist  View),   Ministry. 

LITTMAX,  ENNO,  Pir.D.,   Professor  of  Semitic  Phi- 
lology in  the  University  of  Gottingen,  Germany. 
Ethiopic  Language. 

LONC-ACRE,    LINDSAY    B.,    B.D.,    PH.D.,    Professor, 
Department  of  Old   Testament,   lliff  School  of 
Theology,  University  Park,  Colorado. 
Nehushtan. 

LOTZ,  WILHELM,  D.Tii.,  Pn.D.,  Professor  of  The- 
ology in  the  University  of  Erlangen,  Erlangen, 
Germany. 

Ark  of  the  Covenant,  and  other  articles. 

LOWNDES,    RKV.    ARTHUR,    D.D.,    S.T.D.,    LL.D., 
Secretary  of  Christian   Unity  Foundation,   New 
York  City,  Now  York. 
Bishop  (Anglican  View). 

LUERING,  HEINIUCH  LUDWK;  EMIL,  PH.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Dogmatic  Theology  and  New  Testament 
Greek  in  the  Martin  Theological  Seminary  of  the 
Methodist  Episcopal  Church,  Frankfurt  am 
Main,  Germany. 

Contributor  of  articles  on  the  various  parts  of 

the  body,  and  other  subjects. 

MACALISTER,    ALEXANDER,    M.D.,    M.A.,    D  Sc 
LL.D.,    F.R.S.,    F.S.A.,    Professor   of   Anatomy 
m  Cambridge   University,  Cambridge,  England. 
Balm,   Blindness,   Diseases,   Healing,  Leprosy 
Longevity,  Medicine,  and  other  articles   of  a 
similar  character. 

MACK,  REV.  EDWARD,  M.A.,D.D.,  McCormick  Pro- 
fessor of  Old  Testament  Interpretation,  Union 
Theological  Seminary,  Richmond,  Virginia.  As- 
sistant to  the  Managing  Editor  in  the  preparation 
of  this  Encyclopaedia. 

Aaron,  Chronology  of  OT,  Covenant  (Book  of), 
God  (Names  of),  Presbyter,  Semites  (Semitic 
Religion),  and  other  articles. 

MACLAREN,   JOHN  J.,    D.C.L.,    LL.D.,    Justice   of 
Court  of  Appeal,  Toronto,  Ontario,  Canada. 
Jesus  Christ  (Arrest  and  Trial  of). 

MA  R.US,  JOHANNES  I.,  B.A.,  D.D.,  Senior  Pro- 
fessor of  Theological  Seminary  of  the  Dutch 
Reformed  Church  at  Stellenbosch,  Capetown 
South  Africa. 

Anthropology,  Heart,  Mind,  Psychology,  Soul, 

Spirit. 

MARGOLIS,  MAX  L.,  PH.D.,  Professor  of  Biblical 
Philology,  Dropsie  College,  Philadelphia,  Penn- 
sylvania. 

Abner,  Caleb,  Cherubim,  College,  Dagon, 
Dark  Sayings,  Deborah,  and  other  articles. 

MASTER.MAN,    ERNEST    W.    G.,    M.D.,    F.R.C.S., 
F.R.G.S.,  Medical  Superintendent  of  the  English 
Mission    Hospital,    Jerusalem,    and    Honorable 
Secretary  for  Jerusalem  and  Palestine,  for  the 
Palestine  Exploration  Fund;  Jerusalem,  Syria. 
Botany,    Jerusalem,    and    a   large   number   of 
article's  on  botanical,  topographical,  and  other 
subjects. 


M.UXDER,   ]•;.   WALTER,    F.R.A.S.,   for  forty  years 
Superintendent  of  the  Solar  Department  of  the 
Royal  Observatory,  Greenwich,  London,  England. 
Astrology,  Astronomy,  and  other  articles. 

MCALLISTER,  REV.  J.  ('.KAY,  B.A.,  D.D.,  Professor 

of     Biblical     Introduction,     English     Bible     and 

Biblical      Theology,      Presbyterian      Theological 

Seminary  of  Kentucky,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 

Hodesh,  Hodevah,  Hodiah,  and  other  art'ielos. 

M'C.uc,  REV.  ARCHIBALD,  B.A.,  LL.D.,  Principal 
and  Theological  Tutor,  Pastors'  College,  London 
S.E.,  England. 

Covenant    (The  New),  King  (Christ  as),   Law 
in  the  New  Testament,  and  other  articles. 

McCoNNELL,  FRANCIS  J.,  D.D.,  PH.D..  LL.D., 
Bishop  of  the  Methodist  Episcopal  Church,' 
Denver,  Colorado. 

Redeemer   (Redemption),   Righteousness,   Sin. 

McC.LOTHLix,  REV.  WILLIAM  JOSEPH,  M.A.,  D.D 
PH.D.,    LL.D.,    Professor  of  Church   History  in 
Southern   Baptist  Theological  Seminary,   Louis- 
ville, Kentucky. 

Bondage,  Sacrifice  (Human;,  Servant. 

McPHEETERS,     REV.     WlLLIAM     MARCELLUS,     D.D., 

LL.D.,    Professor   of   Old    Testament    Literature 
and   Exegesis,    Columbia    Theological   Seminary 
(Presbyterian),  Columbia,  South  Carolina. 
Scorn,    Simple,    Sluggard,    Theocracy,    Trans- 
lation. 

MEYER,    REV.    HEXRY    II.,    M.A.,    D.D.,    Editor 

Sunday  School  Publications  for  the  Methodist 
Episcopal  Church;  Secretary  Commission  on 
Christian  Education  of  the  Federal  Council  of 
Churches  of  Christ  in  America;  Member  Cesell- 
schaft  fiir  wissenschaftliche  Paedagogik  (Ger- 
many); Cincinnati,  Ohio,  and  New  York  City, 
New  York. 
Education. 

MILLAR,  REV.  JAMES,   B.D.,    Minister  of  Church 
of  Scotland,  at  New  Cumnock,  Ayrshire,  Scotland. 
Amen,  Asaph,  Hymn,   Instruments  of  Music, 
Music,  Song,  and  related  articles. 

MILLER,  REV.  RUSSELL  BENJAMIN,  M.A.,  B.D., 
PH.D.,  Professor  of  Biblical  Literature,  Ohio 
Wesleyan  University,  Delaware,  Ohio. 

Communion,  John  the  Baptist,  Lord's  Prayer, 
Sermon  on  the  Mount,  and  other  articles. 

MOLLKR,  PASTOR  WILHELM,  Pastor  Lieontiat  dor 
Theologie,  Wittenberg,  Bz.  Halle,  Germany. 
Atonement  (Day  of),  A/azel,  Exodus  (Book  of), 
Ezekiol,    Genesis,    Leviticus. 

MOOREHEAD,  the  late  REV.  WILLIAM  G.,  D.D., 
LL.D.,  Professor  in  the  Xenia  Theological  Sem- 
inary, President  of  the  Faculty,  Chair  of  Biblical 
Theology,  Xenia,  Ohio. 

Judo,  Millennium  (Prernillennial  View),  1  Peter, 
2  Peter,  Priest,  Priesthood,  Tongues  of  Fire' 
Type. 

MORRO,  WILLIAM  CHARLES,  B.D.,  M.A.,  PH.D. 
Head  of  Ministerial  Department  and'  Reeves 
Memorial  Chair  of  Biblical  Literature,  Butler 
College,  Indianapolis,  Indiana. 

Body  (Spiritual),  Forgiveness,  Lawgiver,  Way. 

MOSIMAX,  SAMUEL  K.,  M.A.,  B.D.,  PH.D.,  Presi- 
dent Bluffton  College,  Instructor  in  Old' Testa- 
ment Languages  and  Interpretation,  Bluffton, 
Ohio. 

Ahab,  Ahaziah,  Elah,  Jehoram  (Joram),  Je- 
hoshaphat,  Jeroboam  1,  Omri,  Rehoboam, 
Zimri. 


3168 


INDEX  OF  CONTRIBUTORS 


MOULE,   RT.   Ri'.v.   HAN-DLEY   CAHK  GLYN,    D.D., 
Bishop  of  Durham,  England. 

Elect,  Election,  Faith,  Perseverance,  Romans 
(Epistle  to),  Sinlessncss,  Unbelief,  Unbeliever, 
Witness  of  the  Spirit,  World  (General). 

MTLLIXS,  E.  Y.,  D.D.,  LL.D,  President  Southern 
Baptist   Theological   Seminary,    Louisville,   Ken- 
tucky.    Assistant  Editor  of  this  Encyclopaedia. 
Advocate,  Baptism  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  Com- 
forter, Holy  Spirit,  Paraclete. 

NICOL,  RT.  REV.  THOMAS,  D.D.,  Professor  of  Di- 
vinity and  Biblical  Criticism  in  the  University  oi 
Aberdeen;     Moderator   of   the   Grand   Assembly 
of  the  Church  of  Scotland;    Aberdeen,  Scotland. 
Armor  (Arms),   Army,    Bcn-hadad,  Captivity, 
Chemosh,     Dispersion    (The),    Latin    Version 
(The  Old),  Ships  and  Boats,  Syrian  Versions, 
War  (Warfare),  and  other  articles. 

NI-ELSEN,  JOHN  L.,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  Bishop  of  Metho- 
dist Episcopal  Church,  Kilchberg  bei  Zurich, 
Switzerland.  Assistant  Editor  of  this  Encyclo- 
paedia. 

Conversion,  Regeneration. 

OKO,  ADOLPII  S.,  Librarian,  Hebrew  Union  College, 
Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Commentaries  (Hebrew). 

ORELLI,  the  late  CONRAD  VON,  PH.D.,  Doctor  of 
Theology,  Professor  in  Ordinary  of  Old  Testament 
and  History  of  Religion  tit  the  University  of 
Basel,  Basel,  Switzerland. 

Israel  (History  of  the  People),  Israel  (Religion 

of),  Jeremiah,"  Lamentations  (Book  of),  Micah, 

Prophecy  (Prophets). 

ORR,  the  late  REV.  JAMES,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Professor  of 
Apologetics  and  Theology  at  Theological  College 
of  United  Free  Church,  Glasgow,  Scotland. 
Editor-in-Chief  of  this  Encyclopaedia. 

Apostles'  Creed,  Apostolic  Fathers,  Baptismal 
Regeneration,  Bible  (The),  Caesar,  Candle- 
stick (Golden),  Christianity  (Historical  and 
Doctrinal),  Christs  (False),  Commentaries, 
Concordance,  Criticism  of  the  Bible,  Endor 
(Witch  of),  Eschatology  of  the  OT,  Father 
(God  The),  God  (Image  of),  Hands  (Impo- 
sition of),  Hell,  Immortality,  Infinite  (Infini- 
tude), Jesus  Christ,  Knowledge,  Man  of  Sin, 
Moses  (Song  of),  Prison  (Spirits  in),  Punish- 
ment (Everlasting),  Revelation  of  John,  Ser- 
pent Worship,  Seventy  Weeks,  Synagogue 
(The  Great  i,  Tabernacle  (A.  Structure  and 
History),  Temple  (A.  Structure  and  History), 
Unquenchable  Fire,  World  (Cosmological), 
and  hundreds  of  short  articles. 

PATCH,  JAMES  A.,  B.S.,  Professor  of  Chemistry  in 
the  Syrian  Protestant  College,  Beirut,  Syria. 
Agriculture,  Brick,  Brimstone,  Colors,  Crafts, 
Dyeing,  Embroidery,  Fishing,  Fuller,  Gardener, 
Metallurgy,  Oil,  Pottery,  Shepherd,  Weaving, 
and  other  articles. 

PETRIE,  WILLIAM  MATTHEW  FLINDERS,  D.C.L., 
PH.D.,  LITT.D.,  LL.D.,  F.R.S.,  F.B.A.,  lion. 
F.S.A.  (Scot.),  Hon.  A.R.I. B.A.,  M.R.I.A., 
M.  Amcr.  Phil.  Soc.,  Edwards  Professor  ot 
Egyptology,  University  College,  London,  England. 

Egypt,  Memphis. 

PINCHES,  THEOPHILUS  GOLD  RIDGE,  LL.D.,M.R.A.S., 
Lecturer  in  Assyrian  at  University  College,  Lon- 
don,   and    Liverpool    Institute   of    Archaeology; 
late  of  the  Department  of  Egyptian  and  Assyrian 
Antiquities,   British  Museum,  London,  England. 
Africa,    Amraphel,    Arioch,    Babel    (Babylon), 
Cyrus,  Elam  (Elamites),  Hammurabi,  Nineveh, 
Table  of  Nations,  and  several  other  articles. 


POLLARD,  REV.  EDWARD  BAOHY,  M.A.,  D.D.,  PH.D., 
Professor  of  Homiletics,  Cro/er  Theological 

Seminary,  Chester,    Pennsylvania. 

Familiar,    Maid,    Rabbi,  Self-surrender,  Tribu- 
lation, Usury,  and  other  articles. 
PORTER,  II.,  Pn.D.,  Professor  Emeritus  of  History 
and  Psychology  in  the  Syrian  Protestant  College, 
Beirut,  Syria. 

Easter,  Money,  Parthians,  Phoenicia,  Scythians, 
Sidon,  Syrians,  Tammu/,  Time,  Tyre,  Weights 
and  Measures,  and  other  articles. 

PRATT,  REV.  DWKIHT  MALLORY,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Min- 
ister of  the  Walnut  Hills  Congregational  Church, 
Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Agony,  Apostasy,  Beloved,  Bishop  (Congre- 
gational View),  Catholic  Epistles,  Enchant- 
ment, Epistle,  Spiritual,  Spirituality,  Woman, 
and  other  articles. 

PUESCOTT,  W.  W.,  M.A.,  Editor  of  the  Protestant 
Magazine,  Washington,  District  of  Columbia. 
Sabbath  (from  the  Standpoint  of  Seventh-day 
Advcntists). 

PRESS,  R.  D.,  Professor  of  Practical  Theology  and 
Systematic,  Theology,  Eden  Theological  Seminary, 
St.  Louis,  Missouri. 

King  (Kingdom),  Rachel,  Stephanas,  Stephen. 

RAFFETY,  WILLIAM  EDWARD,  B.D.,  M.A.,  PH.D., 

Professor  of  Religious  Pedagogy  and  Sociology, 
Kansas  City  Baptist  Theological  Seminary, 
Kansas  City,  Kansas. 

Crown,  fsh-sechel,  Lust,  Market,  Merchandise, 

Service,  Slavery,  Traflic,  Treasure  (Treasury), 

Wages,  Wares,  and  other  articles. 
R\LL,  REV.  HARRIS  FRANKLIN,  D.D.,  PH.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Systematic  Theology,  Garret  t    Biblical 
Institute,  Evanston,  Illinois. 

Guilt,  Guiltless,  Guilty,  Justice,  Sanctihcation. 

RAMSAY,  SIR  WILLIAM  M.,  D.D.,  D.C.L,  LL.D, 
LiTT.D.,  Formerly  Professor  ot  Humanity,  Uni- 
versity of  Aberdeen;  Edinburgh,  Scotland. 

Galatia. 

REES,  REV.  THOMAS,  M.A,  Principal  and  Professor 
of  Theology,  Independent  College  (Congrega- 
tional), Bangor,  North  Wales. 

Adoption,  Authority  (in  Religion),  Beelzebub, 
Blasphemy,   Commandment,   (New),  Doctrine, 
Dogma,  Epicureans,  God,  Hebrews  (Epistle  to), 
Philosophy,  Stoics,  and  other  articles. 
REEVE,   REV.  JAM  KM  JOSIAH,   B.A,   B.D.,   Tii.D, 
Formerly  Professor  of  Hebrew  and  Cognate  Lan- 
guages   and    Old    Testament    Theology    in    the 
Southwestern    Baptist   Theological   Seminary   at 
Fort  Worth,  Texas;   Chicago,  Illinois. 

Elisha,  Gods,  Gog,  Goliath,  Life,  Priest  (High), 
Sacrifice  in  OT,  Tree  of  Life,  and  other  articles. 

RICHARDSON,  ERNEST  CUSIIINC,  PH.D.,  Librarian 

of  Princeton  University,  Princeton,  New  Jersey. 

Alphabet,   Book,   Dictionaries,   Ink,  Ink-horn, 

'Libraries,  Manuscripts,  Print  (Printing),  Roll 

(Scroll),  Tablet,  Writing,  and  other  articles. 

Rioc.s,   REV.   JAMES  S.,   D.D,   Professor  of   New 
Testament    Theology    and    Literature,    Auburn 
Theological  Seminary,  Auburn,  New  \  ork. 
Canon  of  the  New  Testament. 

ROBERTS,  REV.  DAVID  FRANCIS,  B.A.,  B.D.,  Min- 
ister of  Maenofferen  Calvimstic  Methodist 
Church,  Blaenau  Ffestiniog,  North  Wales. 

Boaz,  Javan,  Jerahmeel,  Jeshurun,  Jesse, 
Jezebel,  Joab,  Joash,  Melchizedek,  Nathan 
Old  Prophet,  Queen  of  Sheba,  Zimri,  and 
numerous  short  articles. 


INDEX  OK  CONTRIBUTORS 


ROBERTSON,  REV.  A.  T.,  M.A.,  I). I).,  LL.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  New  Testament  Interpretation,  Southern 
Baptist  Theological  Seminary,  Louisville,  Ken- 
tucky. 

Acts  of  (he  Apostles,  Baptism  (The  Baptist 
Interpretation),  Language  of  the  Xew  Testa- 
inent,  (Greek),  Latin,  Luke  (Tlie  Evangelist', 
Luke  (Gospel  of),  I'aul. 

ROBERTSON,    Kiev.    JAMES,     M.A.,    D.I).,    LL.D., 
Emeritus  Professor  of  Hebrew  and  Semitic  Lan- 
guages at  the  University  of  Glasgow,  Scotland. 
Amos,  Hosea,  Joel. 

ROBINSON,  REV.  GEOR<;E  L.,  M.A.,  D.I).,  Pn.D., 
LL.D.,  Professor  of  Biblical  Literature  and 
English  Bible  in  the  McCormick  Theological 
Seminary,  Chicago,  .Illinois. 

Canon     of     Old     Testament,      Deuteronomy, 

Haggai,  Isaiah,  Malachi,  Samson. 

ROGERS,  ROBERT  WILLIAM,  Pn.D.,  LITT.D.,  LL.D., 
Professor  of  Hebrew  and  Old  Testament  Exegesis, 
Drew  Theological  Seminary,  Madison,  New 
Jersey. 

Babylonia  and  Assyria  (Religion  of). 

RULE,  REV.  U.  Z.,  now  retired  from  benefice  in 
diocese  of  Winchester;  ordained  in  1S(>4  in 
diocese  of  Newfoundland;  Forest  Road,  Worth- 
ing, England. 

Law  in  the  Old  Testament. 

RUTHERFURD,  JOHN,  B.D.,  M.A.,  Minister  of  Moor- 
park  United  Free  Church,  Renfrew,  Scotland. 
Caesar's  Household,  Faithful  Sayings,  Gnosti- 
cism, Laodiceans  (Epistle  to),  Onesiphorus, 
Pastoral  Epistles,  Persecution,  Praetorian 
Guard,  Rudiments,  Timothy,  Titus,  Tychicus, 
and  other  articles. 

SAMPEY,  REV.  JOHN  RICHARD,  B.A.,  D.D.,  LL.D., 

Professor  of  Old  Testament  Interpretation  in  the 
Southern  Baptist  Theological  Seminary,  Louis- 
ville, Kentucky. 

Ephod,  Jonah,  Jonah  (Book  of),  Obadiah, 
Obadiah  (Book  of),  Psalms  (  Hook  of),  Sabbath, 
Song  of  Songs,  Ten  Commandments,  and 
other  articles. 

SAYCE,  REV.  ARCHIBALD  HENRY,  D.D.,  LITT.D., 
LL.D.,  Professor  of  Assyriology  in  University  of 
Oxford,  Oxford,  England. 

Amorites,  Anakim,  Asherah,  Ashtoreth,  Assyria, 
Atargatis,  Baal,  Canaan  (Canaanites),  Cir- 
gashite,  Hivite,  Moabite  Stone,  Nineveh 
(Library  of),  Perizzite,  and  other  articles. 

SCHENK,  REV.  CHARLES  E.,  D.D.,  Superintendent, 
Cincinnati  District,  Methodist  Episcopal  Church, 
Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Earnest,  Gideon,  Jael,  Moon,  Poetry  (New 
Testament),  Prophesyings  (False),  Sisera,  and 
other  articles. 

SCHODDE,  REV.  GEORGE  HENRY,  D.D.,  PH.D., 
Professor  in  College  and  Theological  Depart- 
ments of  Capital  University,  Columbus,  Ohio. 

Allegory,    Interpretation,    Matthew,    Matthew 

(Gospel  of),  Parable. 

SHAW,    REV.    R.    DYKES,    M.A.,    D.D.,    Formerly 
Minister   of   Hope    Park    United    Free    Church, 
Edinburgh;     General   Secretary    to    the    Presby- 
terian Alliance;    Edinburgh,  Scotland. 
1  and  2  Corinthians. 

SITTERLY,  CHARLES  FREMONT,  S.T.D.,  PH.D., 
Professor  of  Biblical  Literature  in  Drew  The- 
ological Seminary,  Madison,  New  Jersey. 

Text  and  Manuscripts  of  the  New  Testament. 


SMITH,  W.  TAYLOR,  B.A.,  Private  Student,  and 
Graduate  of  University  of  Manchester;  Seven- 
oaks,  England. 

Acrostic,  Agrapha,  Games,   Logia,   Number. 

STALKER,  HEV.  JAMES,  M.A.,  D.I).,  Professor  of 
Church  History,  United  Free  Church  College, 
Aberdeen,  Scotland. 

Accountability,  Conscience,  Ethics  of  Jesus, 
Kingdom  of  Cod  (of  Heaven),  Son  of  God,' 
Son  of  Man. 

STEARNS,  WALLACE  NELSON,  B.I).,  PH.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Biblical  History  and  Literature,  Fargo 
College^,  Fargo,  North  Dakota. 

Child  (Children),  Elder  (in  the  OTj,  Gad 
("Fortune'';,  Kings  (Hooks  of;,  and  other 
art  ides. 

STEELE,  the  late  REV.  DANIEL,  D.I).,  Author  and 
Educator;  First  President  of  Syracuse  Univer- 
sity; Milton,  Massachusetts. 

Sanctifieation  (Wesleyan  Doctrine). 

STRACK,  HERMANN  L.,  D.D.,  PH.D.,  Professor  of 
Old  Testament  Exegesis  and  Semitic  Languages, 
Berlin  University,  Berlin,  Germany. 
Talmud. 

STRATTON-PORTER,  GENE,  Author  and  Illustrator; 
Special  Writer  on  Birds  and  Nature;  Rome  City, 
Indiana. 

The  Birds  of  t  he  Bible  (under  t  he  various  tit  les) , 
Cage,  Feathers,  Fowler,  ( Jin,  Nest,  Snare,  Trap, 
Wings. 

STUART,  REV.  CHARLES  M.,  M.A.,  D.D.,  LITT.D., 
LL.D.,  President,  Garret  t  Biblical  Institute, 
Evanston,  Illinois. 

Shame,  Sign,  Tempt,  Temptation,  Trans- 
figuration, Vision. 

SWEET,  Louis  MATTHEWS,  M.A.,  S.T.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Christian  Theology  and  Apologetics, 
Bible  Teachers'  Training  School,  New  York  City, 
New  York. 

Accommodation,  Demon  (Demoniac),  Gene- 
alogy of  Jesus  Christ,  Mary,  Quotations  (New 
Testament),  Satan,  Tax  (Taxing),  Virgin- 
birth  (of  Jesus  Christ),  and  other  articles. 

THACKERAY,  HENRY  ST.  JOHN,  M.A.,  Civil  Servant, 
and  Author  of  various  works;  Bucks,  England. 
Septuagint. 

THOMAS,  REV.  WILLIAM  HENRY  GRIFFITH,  D.D., 
Professor  of  Old  Testament  Literature  and 
Exegesis,  WyelifTe  College,  Toronto,  Canada. 

Adam    in    the    New    Testament,     Ascension, 

Resurrection   of   Jesus   Christ. 

THOMSON,  the  late  REV.  CHARLES  II.,  M.A.,  United 
Free  Church  of  Scotland  Missionary  to  the  Jews 
at  Constantinople;  Glasgow,  Scotland. 

Antioch  in  Syria,  Berothah,  Damascus,  and 
other  articles. 

THOMSON,  REV.  J.  E.  II.,  M.A.,  D.D.,  Retired 
Missionary;  Edinburgh,  Scotland. 

Alexander  the  Great,  Antichrist,  Apocalyptic 
Literature,  Aramaic  Language,  Ebionism, 
Kssenes,  Pentateuch  (Samaritan),  Pharisees, 
Raphael,  Sadducees,  Targum. 

TILI.ETT,  REV.  WILBUR  F.,   M.A.,   D.D.,   S.T.D.. 
LL.D.,  Dean  of  the  Theological  Faculty  and  Pro- 
fessor   of    Systematic    Theology    in    Vanderbilt 
University,  Nashville,  Tennessee. 
Providence. 


3170 


INDEX  OF  CONTRIBUTORS 


TISDALL,    REV.   W.    ST.    CLAIK,    D.I).,    Formerly 
C.M.S.   Mis.sioiuiry  in   India  and   Persia;    Vicar 
of  St.  George  the  .Martyr's,  Deal,  Kent,  England. 
Armenia,    Armenian    (Aryan)    Religion,    Com- 
parative   Religion,     Coptic    Versions,     Medes, 
Persia,   Persian   Religion   (.Ancient j,  and  other 
articles. 

TOD,  MARCTS  XiEnniR,  M.A.,  Fellow  and  Assist  tint 

Tutor  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford,  and  University 
lecturer  in  Greek  Epigraphy,  Oxford,  England. 

Cyprus,  Macedonia,  Philippi,  Tarsus,  Tliessa- 

lonica,  and  other  articles. 

TREVKU,  REV.  GEOROE  HEXRY,  M.A.,  D.D.,  PH.D.. 

ProtVssor  of  New  Testament  Exegesis  and  Chris- 
tian Doctrine,  Gammon  Theological  Seminary, 
Atlanta,  Georgia. 

Burden,  Care,  Citizenship,  Cornelius,  Day- 
spring,  Lazarus,  and  other  articles. 

UMBACH,  the  late  RKV.  S.  L.,  D.D.,  noted  for  his 
extensive  travels  in  Europe,  Asia  and  Africa; 
Naperville,  Illinois. 

Shallum  (1st  article),  and  several  short,  articles. 

UTNe;XAD,  ARTHUR,  Pn.D.,  Professor  of  Oriental 
Philology  at  the  University  of  Jena,  Jena, 
Germany. 

Hammurabi  (Code  of). 

URQUHART,    REV.    JOHN',    Author;     Editor   of   the 
"Bible   Investigator  and   Inquirer";    Member  of 
the  Victoria  Institute;    Melbourne,  Australia. 
Esther,  Esther  (Book  of),  Iladassah,  Hainan, 
Mordecai,  Vashti,  Zeresh. 

VAX  PELT,  REV.  J.  R.,  B.A.,  S.T.B.,  PH.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Philosophy  and  Biblical  Literature, 
Cornell  College,  Mt.  Vernon,  Iowa. 

Bath  Kol,  Chemarim,  Discrepancies  (Biblical1, 

Doom,  Duke,  and  other  articles. 

Vos,  REV.  GEERHARIM-S,  D.D..  Pn.D.,  Charles  T. 
Haley  Professor  of  Biblical  Theology,   Princeton 
Theological  Seminary,  Princeton,  New  Jersey. 
Eschatology      of      New      Testament,      Hades, 
Heavens  (New)  and  Earth  (Xew),  Lake  of  Fire, 
Omnipotence,  Omnipresence,  Omniscience,  and 
other  articles. 

WACE,  VERY  REV.  HENRY,  D.D.,  Dean  of  Canter- 
bury, Canterbury,  England. 
Miracle. 

WALKER,    REV.    ROLLIN    Iloron,     Pn.D.,    JelTers 
Professor  of   the   English    Bible,   Ohio    Wesleyan 
University,  Delaware,  Ohio. 
1  and  2  Thessalonians. 

WALKER,  REV.  W.  L.,  D.D.,  Congregational  Min- 
ister (Retired);  Glasgow,  Scotland. 

Compassion,  Creature  (Living),  Duty,  End, 
Fear,  Fervent,  Figure1,  Fool  (Folly,  Gesture, 
Good  (Chief),  Humility,  Merry,  Name,  Person 
(Personality),  Reason,  Substance,  Will  (Voli- 
tion), and  a  large  number  of  short  articles. 

WALLACE,  REV.  HEXRY,  Pastor  of  Parkhead  Con- 
gregational Church,  Glasgow,  Scotland. 

Hilkiah,  Ichabod,  Mephibosheth,  Merab. 
Merari,  Meshech,  Phinehas,  and  other  bio- 
graphical articles. 

W \RFIELD,  REV.  BEX.IAMI.V  BRECKIXRIDGE,  D.D., 
LL.D.,  LITT.D.,  ProtVssor  of  Didactic  and 
Polemic  Theology,  Theological  Seminary  of  the 
Presbyterian  Church  in  the  U.S.A.  at  Princeton, 
New  Jersey. 

Godhead,  Inspiration,  Person  of  Christ, 
Revelation,  Trinity. 


WEBU,    REV.    ROHERT    ALEXANDER,    B.A.,    D.D., 
LL.D.,  Professor  of  Apologetirs  and  Systematic 
Theology,  Presbyterian  Theological  Seminary  of 
Kentucky,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 
Man  ^Natural;,  Man  (New). 

WEIR,  REV.  THOMAS  IlrvrER,  B.D.,  M.A., 
M.R.A.S.,  Lecturer  on  Arabic  in  the  University 
of  Glasgow,  Glasgow,  Scotland. 

Arabia,  Arabic  Versions,  Ethiopia  Versions, 
Israel  (Kingdom  of),  Judah  (Kingdom  of), 
Languages  of  the  Old  Testament,  Saul,  Solo- 
mon, Text  of  the  Old  Testament,  and  other 
art  ides. 

WEXI.EY,  ROHERT  MARK,  M.A.,  PH. I).,  D.Sr., 
LL.D.,  LiTT.D.,  D.C.L.  Professor -of  Philosophy 
in  the  University  of  Michigan,  Ann  Arbor, 
Michigan. 

Josephus   (Flavins),   Philo   (Judaeus). 

WHITE,  REV.  OEOROE  EDWARD,  M.A.,  I). I).,  Mis- 
sionary of  the  American  Board;  President  of 
Anatolia  College,  Marsovati,  Turkey. 

Asia  Minor  (Archaeology  of),  Cappadocia, 
Cilicia,  Pont  us. 

WHITEI.AW,  REV.  THOMAS,  M.A.,  D.I).,  Minister 
of  King  Street  United  Free  Church,  Kilmarnock, 
Scotland. 

Ithamar,  Numbers  (Book  of),  Tabernacle  (in 
Criticism),  Temple  (in  Criticism),  Zadok. 

WIEXER,  HAROLD  M.,  M.A.,  LL.B.,  Barrister  at 
Law;  London,  England. 

Agrarian  Laws,  Altar  (A.  Critical),  Hexateuch, 
Levitica  I  Cities,  Pentateuch,  Priest  sand  Levites, 
Sanctuary,  Stranger  and  Sojourner  (in  OT), 
and  other  articles. 

WILLIAMS,  CHARLES  B.,  M.A.,  B.D.,  PH.D.,  Pro- 
fessor in  the  Chair  of  Xew  Testament  Greek  and 
New  Testament  Theology,  Southwestern  Baptist 
Theological  Seminary,  Fort  Worth,  Texas. 

Sacrifice  in  the  New  Testament,  Satan  (Syna- 
gogue of),  Tradition,  Undeanness,  and  other 
articles. 

WILSON,  REV.  J.  MACARTNEY,  B.D.,  M.A.,  Min- 
ister of  United  Presbyterian  Church,  New 
Glasgow,  Nova  Scotia,  Canada. 

Angels,  Apocryphal  Epistles,  Birthright,  Chief 

Seats,  Pilate  (Pontius). 

WILSOV,  REV.  ROHERT  DICK,  M.A.,  PH.D.,  Pro- 
fessor of  Semitic  Philology  and  Old  Testament 
Introduction,  Princeton,  Xew  Jersey. 

Arsaces,  Daniel,  Daniel  (Book  of),  Ezra, 
Nebuchadnezzar,  Nehemiah,  Tirshatha,  Zerub- 
babel,  and  other  articles. 

WOLF,    RAHHI    HORACE    J.,    Bachelor    of    Hebrew 
Literature1,     M.A.,    Associate;    Rabbi    of    Benth 
Kodish  Congregation,  Rochester,  New  York. 
Afternoon,     Day     and     Night,     Samgar-nebo, 
Segub,     Shaphan,     Sheshach,     Tubal,     Tubal- 
cain,  and  numerous  brief  articles. 

WRICHT,  REV.  GEORCE  FREDERICK,  M.A.,  D.D., 
LL.D.,  F.G.S.A.,  Professor  Emeritus  in  Oberlin 
College,  Oberlin,  Ohio. 

Antediluvians,  Arabah,  Cities  of  the  Plain, 
Dead  Sea,  Deluge;  of  Noah,  Eden,  Euphrates, 
Jordan,  Jordan  Valley,  Paradise,  Tigris,  and 
other  articles. 

ZEXOS,   REV.  AXDREW  C.,  D.D.,  LL.D.,  I'rofessor 
of  Historical  Theology,   McCormick  Theological 
Seminary,  Chicago,  Illinois. 
Evolution. 


A 1";  '.)()"  (Richardson); 

(Richardson ) 

Aalar  (Allar)  .  .               .  .  .  1";  <)7b 
Aaron 1;1  (Mack) 

Eider I1' 

Family I1 

cf  Moses 2<)S3b  ijxyle) 

Moses'  assistant I;l 

Priest !>> 

Priestly  succession  .  .  .  .  2'1 

Rebellion 11' 

Hod  of '_>"  (Mack) 

cf  Priest 2439"  (Moorehead) 

Aaronites 211  (Beecher) 

Ab  (father) •_>'•  (Beecher) 

cf  Abba 4a  (irarry) 

cf  Abi C>b  (Beecher) 

Ab  (month) 2h 

Abacuc 2b 

Abaddon  (Ileb) 2b  (Beecher) 

cf  Apollyon 2()lb  (Sweet) 

Abadias 3" 

Abagarus 3" 

cf  Abgar (i1'  (Bmslich) 

Abagtha 3" 

Abana 

cf  Ainana 1 13"  (('.  If.  Thomson) 

cf  Pharpar 23().7> 

Abanah 3" 

cf  Abilene 11"  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Amana 1  13"  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

Abarim :?>  (li(>ech(>r) 

Abase .3'-  (Hirsch) 

Abate 4a 

Abba .J!l  (Harry) 

cf  Ab  (father) 21'  (Beecher) 

Abda 4" 

Abdeel 4a 

Abdi 4"  (Beecher) 

Abdias 4!l 

cf  Obadiah 2173"  (Sampey) 

Abdiel 4" 

Abdon  (person) 4!l  (Beecher) 

cf  Samson 2()7.Tl  (Robinson) 

Abdon  (place) 4h  (Beeclu>r) 

Abedne^o 4b  (II.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Hhadrach 27  Mr'  (H.  I).  M'ilson) 

Abel  (person) r>"  (M.  ().  I^vans) 

And  Cain r,:j{)='  (Ivirr) 

NT1  references ">:i 

cf  Sacrifice 2(>3.S:i  (R(>eve) 

Shepherd  and  \vorship- 
I>er .")•' 


Abel   (place  ) ."ib 

Abel-bet  h-maacah .V1  (Beecher) 

cf  Abel-maim (V 

Abel-cheramim .">'> 

cf  I'lain 2  !()(ib  (Day) 

Abel-maim (>" 

cf  Abel-bcth-rnaacah .  .  ")b  (Beecher) 

Abel-meholah (i"  (  Beecher  j 

cf  Meholathite 202S" 

Abel-mizraim 0"  (Beecher; 

Abel-shittim (>"  (Beecher) 

Abez (>b 

cf  Ebez X9()b 

Abgar (i1'  (Breslich) 

cf  Abagarus 3" 

Abgar  us 

cf  Abagarus 3" 

Abhor (ib  (Breslich) 

cf  Abomination l.V>  (Eager) 

Abi  (father) (>i>  (Beecher) 

cf  Ab  (father)  .  .         .  .2b  (Beecher) 

cf  Abijah 10"  (Beecher) 

Compounds  of 7" 

Abi  (name) (>b 

Abia,  Abiah 7b 

cf  Abijah 10"  (Beecher) 

Abi-albon 7b  (Beecher) 

cf  Abiel 9" 

Abiasaph 7b  (Beecher) 

Abiathar 7b  (Beecher);  So"  (Beecher) 

cf  Ahimclech S.">"  (Beecher) 

cf  Ahitub S(ib  (Beecher) 

Biblical  record  of 7b 

Critical  opinion Sb 

cf  David 79()b  (Weir) 

cf  Ephod 9(>2"  (Sampey) 

cf  Priest,  High 2  Ml1'  (Reeve) 

cf  Zadok 3129b  (Whitehuv) 

Abib 9"   (Beecher);    541b   (Por- 
ter) 

cf  Calendar :>41b  (Porter) 

Abida 9" 

Abidah 9" 

Abidan 9" 

Abide 9"  (Pratt) 

Abiel 9" 

cf  Abi-albon 7b 

Abiczer 9"  (Beecher) 

cf  lezer 1  US1' 

cf  Jeezer l.">74" 

Abie/rite 

cf  Abiezer 9"  (Beecher) 


3171 


GENERAL INDEX 


Abigail,  Abigal <>''  (Muck] 

cf  Abraham IS"  (Boyd) 

cf  Jesse H'>23"  (Roberts) 

cf  Zeruiah 31  IS"  (Rol)ert.s) 

Abihail 10"  (Mack) 

Abihu 10" 

Abihud 10" 

cf  Abiud 13b 

Abijah 10'  (Beecher) 

cf  Alii ()'• 

cf  Ahi S3b 

cf  Ahiah S31' 

cf  Ahitub Sti1'  (Beecher) 

Problems  in  c:)nncct  ion 

with 10'' 

Record  of  reign 10" 

cf  Zacharias 31291'  (East  on) 

Al)ijani  (Abijah) 10h  (Beecher) 

Al.il  a 

cf  Abilene II'1  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

Al)ilene I  I"  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Abanah 3"  (C.  IF.  Thomson) 

cf  Lysanias I9!3b  (Kerr) 

Ability II'1 

Abimael 11"  (Beecher) 

Abimelech II1'  (Mack);  3<ib 

cf  Achish 3ti"  (Mack) 

cf  (iaal lb~)0" 

Abinadab 12"  (Beecher) 

And  the  Ark 213"  (Lot/) 

cf  Ben-abinadab 13  I'1 

Abinoam l'-h 

Abiram 12b  (Beecher) 

cf    Korah 1S1C)1'  (Beecher) 

Abiron 12b 

cf  Abiram 1-"'  (Beeclier) 

Abisei 131' 

Abishag 121'  (Beecher) 

cf  Abraham IS"  iB.,yd 

Abishai 13"    (Mack);      lo"     (Mar- 

golis) 

cf  Jesse 1023"  (Roberts; 

Abishalom 13' 

cf  Absalom 23"  (W.  W.  Davies) 

Abishua 13" 

Abishur 131' 

Abissei 131' 

Abisuc 13'' 

Abisum 

cf  Abisue 131' 

Abital 13'' 

Ahitub 13b 

cf  Ahitub SO1'  (Beecher) 

Abiud 131' 

cf  Abihud 10" 

cf  Genealogy US31'  (Crannell) 

Abject 13h 

Able 13" 

Ablution 131'  (Eager) 

Attitude  of  .Jesus II1' 

Biblical  references .  .  .  .  13'' 
(  Yremonies  of 11' 


Aimer IT"  (Margolis);   13" 

cf  Joab K)77h  (Roberts) 

Abode 

cf  Abi.lc <)"  (Pratt) 

Abolish.  .  lo"  (M.  0.  l-lvans) 

Abomination I")1'  (laager) 

Abhor (i1-1  (Br(>slich) 

Birds  of K>"  (Strat ton-Porter) 

cf  Abomination  .  .  .  .l.">''  (laager) 
cf  Birds,   Unclean  .  .477b  (I{oeve) 
Clean  and  unclean  ani- 
mals  Hi" 

Of  desolation K)1'  (Ilirsch) 

Antiocdius    Epij)h- 

anes 17";   I;")!)1'  (Harry) 

II ist  or i ca  1    back- 
ground   17" 

cf  Jupiter 17S1"  (East on) 

Suppression   of   wor- 
ship  17'' 

Term  in  Daniel ....  Ki'1 

cf  Food 111211'  (Eager) 

Ideas  of l.V> 

Inclean  foods Hi" 

Words  used l")h 

Abound ,     Abundance, 

Abundant 17h  (Van  Pelt  ) 

About IS" 

Abraham IS"  (Boyd) 

cf  Abigail <>h  (Mack) 

cf  Abishag 12b  (Beecher, 

Book  of 

cf  Apoc  Literature.  .  Hil1'  (J.  lv  H.  Thomson) 

C1ureer IS'' 

Character 20" 

Condit  ions  of  life 19" 

Economic    and     social 

conditions I1.)1' 

Faith  of 10SS" 

Family  of,  in  Genesis..  1207"  (Moller) 
Interpretation  of  story  2 11' 

cf  Isaac 1W3"  (Boyd) 

cf  Jacob l.~)4!>"  (Boyd) 

Kindred IS1' 

cf  Lot 1930"  (Boyd) 

cf  Machpelah 19.J91'  (Masterman) 

cf  Mature  ...  .  .  1973"  (Masterman) 

Myth  and  saga ±>" 

Name IS" 

NT  references 21" 

cf  Palestine 2210"  (Cornier) 

Period  of  wandering. .  .  lSb 
Religion  and  morality  .  20" 
Religious  significance 

of 21" 

Residences 19" 

Sacrifice  of 19" 

cf  Sarah 2ii91"  (Boyd) 

c  f  Sem  i  1  es  ,  S  em  1 1  i  c 

Religion  .  .  .  .2717"   (Mack) 

cf  Table  of  Nations    .  .2S991'  (Pinches) 


OFAERAL  INDEX 


.'5173 


Abraham's  Bosom   .... 

22b  (Orr) 
972"  (Orrj 
.  1310b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

I3ir>"  (Vos) 

Accept,  Acceptable.  .  .  . 
cf  Respect  of  Persons 
Acceptance  
Access  

27b  (Prattj 
2.")()lb  (East  on) 
27''  (I'rattj 
27b  (Pratt) 
2S"  (Porter; 
2S"  (Porter) 
2S" 
2S" 
2S";  2499" 
2707b  (lowing; 
2Sb  (Sweet) 
29b;  97b  (Schodde) 
MoS''  (Clay) 
33" 
S271'  (Sw(>et  ) 
29";   14S9"  (Schodde; 
1792"  (East  on  j 

30" 

30";  2;~)  lf)!l  (Sweetj 
29";  2r>73b  (Warfield; 
33" 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT 
cf  Gulf  
cf  Hades 

22  K>"  (Wright) 
.271)1"  (Orrj 

IS"  (Boyd) 
221'  (Mack; 
221'  (Jacobs) 

S"),j"  (Xicolj 
23" 
23"  (W.  W.  Davie.sj;    79!'' 
(Weir) 
23b 
23b 
23" 
ICuS"  (Roberts) 
23" 
29()7h  (<  )rr) 
24" 
Hi  12"  (Mastennan) 
24" 

24" 
24"  (Jacobs) 
1132b  (Morro) 
1701"  (Carver  j 
25")7b  (Jacobs) 
24''  (Eager) 
25" 
25a 
9971'  (J.  E.  11.  Thomson) 
1099"  (T.  Lewis) 
1121b  (Eager) 
25b 

V)b 
24b 
25b 
2929b  (Jacobs) 
26b 
171'  (Van  Pelt) 
26b 
2<ib  (T.  Lewis);  314'' 
300h  (Maunder) 
24()lh  (T.  Lewis) 

1031"  (Cobern) 
27a  (Masterman) 
20931'  (Masterman) 

8Sb 
271' 
I31G" 

C>9"  (Edwards) 

Accho  (Accoj  

cf  Sheol 

Acco  

Abram 
cf  Abraham  
Abrcch  
\broad                      

Biblical  references  .  .  . 
History  
Ptolemais  
cf  Sea,  The  Great.  .  .  . 
Accommodat  ion  

Scattered 
cf  Dispersion 

Allegory  
cf  Babylonia  

Abronah  

Christ's  method  

David's  flight.  

cf  Demon  

Interpret  at  ion  

Kenosis  
Prophecy     and     fulfil 
ment  
Quotations  in  NT  .  .  . 
Revelation  

1  )cat  h  and  tomb  .... 

Exile      

cf  Joab  
Rebellion  

Accomplish  

cf  Jerusalem  
Absalom  (Apoc) 

Accord,    According,    Ac- 
cordiivly                           33b  (AT.  ().  Ev:msl 

cf  Deed     .  . 

SI  7"  (Edwards) 
33b 

Absalon        (Absalom 
Apoc) 

\ccos 

Account,  Accountability 
Vccoz 

33b  (Stalker) 
31b;  <S9" 
34b  (T.  Lewis) 
130"  (T.  Lewis) 
:].")"  (W.  W.  Davies) 

Absolution                      .  . 

cf  Forgiveness       .... 

Accursed 

cf  Keys,  Power  of  ... 
cf  Remission  
Abst  inence  

cf  Anathema 

Aceldama  (Akeldama).  . 

SO"  (Masterman) 

•>  -a.    ffT.irr\-\ 

Ascetics  

Degrees  of 

Achaicus    

35b 

710"  (Harry) 
3")1'  (Beecherj 

cf  Essenes  
cf  Fast,  Fasting  
cf  Food 

cf  Corinth  

\chan 

cf  Achor  

37"  (Beecherj 
2178a 
3.")h  (Beecher) 
3ti" 
3(5"  (Beecher) 
36a 
2120a  (Angus) 
36a 
36" 
3d" 
36a 
1321b 
30"  (Maclo;  II1' 
36b 
S(ib  (Beech(>r) 
3(ib  (Tisdall) 
2S"  (Porter) 
37"         (Beecher);          3.jb 
(Beecher) 
37" 
37"  (lieeclicr) 
37" 
37b  (Mack;    Porter) 
3(1" 
37b;  SO1'  (Beeclicr) 
37b 

Jesus'  attitude 

cf  Ochran  

Practice   and    teachin 
of  apostles    . 

Achar  (Achan)  
\chaz          

Public  fasts 

Achbor        

Talmud  

Achiacharus               .    .  . 

cf  Temperance  . 

cf  Nasbas           

Abubus  

Abundance,  Abundant  . 
Abuse  

\chiin 

Abyss  

cf  Astronomy  
cf  Pit  

cf  Hakupha  

l\  fill's 

Abyssinia 
cf  Ethiopia  
Acacia  
cf  Mulberry  Trees  .  .  . 
Acatan 
cf  Akatan  

Achitob 

cf  Ahitub  

Achmetha  
Acho  (Acco)  
\chor 

Vchsa 

Accaba  

cf  Hagabah  

Achsah  
\chshaph 

Accad.  Accadians 
cf   \gabus 

Vch/ib 

cf  Babylonia  
Accaron  
cf  Ekron  . 

3l>.~>"  (Clay) 
27b 
910"  (Porter) 

Acipha  (  Achipha)  
\cit  ho,  Acithoh 

Acknowledge  .  . 

3174 


GENERAL  IX  HEX 


Acquaint  ,  Acquaintance  .  3 
Aera  .................  38" 

cf  Jerusalem  .........  15951'  (Masterman  > 

Acrabattene       (Akrabat- 

tine)  ................  S9" 

Acrahhiin  .............  38" 

cf  Akrabbini  ........  89" 

Acre  (Acco)  ...........  28"  (Porter) 

Aero  ..................  38"  (Beecher) 

Acrostic  ...............  38"  (Smith) 

cf  Alphabet  ..........  105"  (Richardson) 

Acts,  Apocryphal  .......  1X3'J  (A.  F.  Findlay) 

Acts  of  Andrew  ......  192b 

Acts  of  John  .........  19lb 

Acts  of  Paul  .........  lSSb 

Acts  of  Peter  ........  190" 

Acts  of  Thomas  ......  193b 

Authorship  ..........  187* 

Ecclesiastical      testi- 
mony .............  ISO" 

Extra-canonical  ......  lS4a 

False  and  heretical.  .  .  .  184" 

General  characteristics  IS  I" 

Influence  ............  1ST1' 

cf  Literal  lire,  Sub-apos.l896b  (Cowan) 

Meaning     of     apocry- 
phal .............  is3b 

Origin  ..............  185" 

cf  Publins  ..........  2501"  (Kerr) 

Relationship  of  differ- 
ent acts  ...........  1*7" 

Secret  ..............  184" 

Sources  .............  lS5b 

cf  Thaddaeus  ........  29(>4«  (Kerr) 

Value  ...............  187" 

As  history  ........  187" 

As  records   of    early 
Christianity  ......  187" 

Acts  of  the  Apostles  .....  39 

466 

Analysis  ............  40b 

Author  ..............  41" 


(A.     T.     Robertson); 
(Orr) 


Canonicity 
Chronology 
Date 

Historical  worth 
cf  Luke,  Evangelist 
cf  Luke,  Ciospel  of. 


11  b 

-1  1" 

41b 

441' 

.  1935b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 
.  1937"  (A.  T.  Robertson  ) 
cf  Mediation,  Mediator  20221'  (Edwards) 
Paul  ................  41";  42";  42b;  43";  4(>" 

Pur])ose  .............  45b 

Relation  to  Ep.  of  Paul  43b 
Relation  to  Josephus.  .  41b 
Sources  .............  42" 

S])eeehes  ............  -121' 

Text  ................  30  •' 

Title  ................  39" 

Unity  ..............  -K)" 

"We"  sections  ......  40";  41" 

Acts  of  Pilate 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  195"  (Hutchison) 
Acts  of  Solomon.  .  .  .48" 


Acua  (Acud) 

Acub 

Acud 

Adab 

Adad  (Hadad).  . 

Adadah 

Adadrimmon 

cf  Hadadrimmon 

Adah 

Adaiah 

Adalia 

Adam,  Books  of .  . 


Adam,  City  of 

Adam  and  t  he  Fall 

Family 

cf  Woman 

Adam  in  XT 

cf   Adam    in    ( )T    am: 

Apoc 

ef  Adam  in  ( )T   ( E^o- 
lutionary  Interpret  a 

lion)  

Adam  in  ( )T  and  Apoc 

cf  Fall 

cf  Sin  .  . 

Usual  interpretation 


48" 

48" 

48";  89" 

3(>4b  (Clay) 

1313b  (Hovcy) 

48" 

48h 

1314"  (living) 

48b  ( lieecher) 

48b  (Beecher) 

48b 

•J4"    (M.   ().   Evans  i ;    177: 

(.1.    !•].     II.    Thomson); 

178b  (T.  W.  Davies) 
o4"  (Wright) 
1092"  (IJavinck) 
1090" 

3100"  (Pratt) 
")2h  (Thomas) 

48b  (Farr) 


Adam  in  ( >T  (Kvolu!  ion 

ary   InterpreUit  ion)  .  .  . 

cf  Eve  in  OT 

cf  Fall 

Adamah 

Adamant 

cf  Stones,  Precious  .  .  . 

Adami 

Adami-nekeb 

Adan  (Addan) 

Adapa,  Story  of 

Adar ' 

Adar 

cf  Addar 

Adarsa  (Adasa) 

Adasa 

Adbeel 

Add 

cf  Impart 

cf  Supply 
Addan 
Addar.  . 

cf  Ard 
Adder 

cf  Serpent 
Addi 
Addict 
Addo .' 

cf  Iddo 

Addon  (Addan) 
Addus 
Ader 

cf  Eder  . 


.49b  (Genung) 

.  48b  (Farr) 
.1092"  (Bavinck) 
.2798''  (McConnelli 
,48h  (Farr);    ">3b  (Thomas); 
139"  (Davis) 

49b  (Genung) 

1040"  (Genung) 

1092"  (Bavinck) 

54" 

T>4"  (Day) 

285C)"  (Fletcher) 

54" 

54b  (Beecher) 

54b 

373''  (Rogers) 

54b 


1447b  (Crannell) 

54b 
55" 
55b 
899a  (Masterman) 


GEXERAL  IXDEX 


Adiabene 

,">.?'  (Beecher) 
55b 
131.?' 
5.?'  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Adullam  ... 
cf  Hereth   .  . 
cf  Odollam  

.,52''  (Beecher; 
.  1377'  (Masterman) 
.217Sh 

.0:',"  (Margolis; 
.71;?'  (Hirsch; 

Adida 

cf  Hadid 

\diel 

Adullamite  
Adultery             .    ... 

Adin 

.").?'  (Beecher) 

cf  Adinu 

56° 

cf  Crimes  

\dina 

cf  Divorce  in  XT  am 
(  )T  

cf  Family  
cf  Jealous  v 

1 

.8(55"  (Caverno,);    SG3b  (W 
W.  Davies; 
.  1091''  (Caverno; 
15721'  (Forrester; 

Ailino 

5G"  (Beecher) 
r,G" 
."">.?'  (Beecher; 
IMG" 
50" 
56"  (Pratt  ) 
21721'  (Levertoff) 
50" 
5Gb  (Wright  ) 
2771"  (Wolf; 
2784"  (Wright) 

258b 

5C)h  (Pratt) 
5(5''  (Pratt) 
56b 
57" 
57"  (Eager) 
57" 
12641'  (Mack) 
57" 
57"  (Beecher) 
58" 
58"  (Beecher) 
1316"  (Hovey) 
58" 
2908"  (Porter) 
58"  (Mack) 
1013b  (Masterman) 
58"  (Rees) 
008"  (Rees) 
59" 
59b 
58b 
58b 
GO" 
GO" 
1310"  (Hovey) 
1593"  (Mosimaii) 

Adinu                          .... 

cf  Adin  
Adinus  (ladinus)  
Adithaim  

04"  (Beecher) 

/Yd  jurat  ion 

Advantage  
Advent 

.Glb 
2052b  (Moorehead; 

cf  Oath  
Adlai  

Admah 

cf  Parousia  
cf  Person  of  Christ  .  .  . 
Prophecy  of  
Advent,  Second 
In  Didachc 

.2219"  (Easton) 
.2313"  (Warfield) 
.832b  (Gray) 

1899''  (Cowan) 

cf  Shinab  
cf  Vale  of  Si:l''im  .  .  .  . 
Admatha                     

Admin  (Arni)  

Administer,    Adrninistra 
tion  

Adventure  

.04" 
Glb  (T    Lewis) 

Admiration  

G41'  (Pratt; 

Adna  

,64b 

.05"  (Breslich) 
05"  (Mullins) 

Adnah                       

Advice,    Advise,    Advis< 

Ado  

Adonai  
cf  God,  Names  of  .  .  .  . 
Adonibezek  
Adonijah  

Advocate1 

cf  Comforter  
cf  Holy  Spirit  

.(579"  (Mullins  i 
.1100"  (Mullins) 
2°45"  (Mullins; 

Adonikam  
Adoniram  

Adytum      

.  05" 

90'^0;i   (P'llrlrvnt  t  '    (  }rr} 

cf  Iladoram  (Joram  >  .  . 
Adonis 

-Vedias       •         

Aelia 
cf  Jerusalem  

.  159.?'  (Masterman) 
G5"'  240"  (Dosker) 

cf  Tammuz  

Adonizedek  

cf  Jerusalem  
Adoption  

\enon 

.65b  (Ewing  i 

cf  Salim 

20(53"  (Ewing) 

cf  Children  of  God  .  .  . 
Christian  experience  .  . 

As  God's  act  

Aeon 

.05b  (Kapp) 

cf  Gnosticism  

.1240"  (Rutherfurd; 

Legal  idea  

\  licet    \ffcct  ion 

6.?'  (Edwards) 

Paul's  doctrine  

225.?'  (Easton; 

Ador,  Adora  

\muitv 

.0(5"  (W.  W.  Davies) 

.1091''  (Caverno) 
.  199ob  (Eager) 
.0(5"  (Ilirsch) 
.  0(5"  (Edwards) 
,07b 
.  GO1' 
.217G1'  (Tillett) 
.  0(5" 

Adoraim  .    . 

cf  Family  
cf  Marriage  
Affirm,  Affirmatives..  .  . 
Affliction  
Endurance  of  
Meaning  and  purpose 
cf  Providence  
Source  

Adoram  (Iladoram;  
cf  Jeroboam  I 

Adoration 

GO"  (Edwards) 

33<)b  (W.  W.  Davies) 
]S13b  (W.  L.  Walker) 
Glb  (Kapp) 
875b  (Eager) 
22  lb  (Beecher) 

Olb  (Beecher);   129" 
1270h  (Reeve) 
2750"  (Eiselen) 
02"  (Banks) 
02"  (Allen) 
62b 
G2b 

cf  Attitudes 

cf  Kiss  . 

Adorn 

cf  Dress 

\dra  (Arad) 

Affright  

.  68" 

Adrammelech,  Anamme- 
lech 

\foot 

.  OS" 

\fore 

.  08" 

cf  Gods 

Vfresh 

.(58"  (Edwards; 

cf  Sharezer 

Africa                             .  . 

.08"  (Pinches! 
.707''  (Pinches) 
.1031"  (Coberni 
.20(59"  (Kyle 
.GS1'  (Jacobs) 

Adramyttiurn  
Adria. 

cf  Cash   
cf  Ethiopia  
cf  Mizraim  
After,  Afterwards.  . 

Adricl  .  . 
Aduel  .  . 

3170 


(IEXERAL  IXDKX 


Afternoon OS1'  (Wolf) 

cf  Day 7971'  (Cerberding) 

Agaba. 09" 

cf  Accaha 27b 

Agalms 09"  (Edwards) 

Agade 09" 

cf  Accad 30.">"  (Clay) 

Agag 09"  (Mack) 

Agagite 09"  (Wolf) 

cf  Purini 2n07"  (Mack) 

Again 09b 

Born  again 

cf  Regeneration.  .  .  .  2.">10''  (.Xuelsen ..• 

Against 09b  ^Jacobs) 

Agapo 09>>  (Lambert) 

cf  Lord's  Supper 192Sb  (Kurt/) 

Agar 70'' 

Agarenes 701' 

cf  Ilagritos 1319"  (Mack) 

Agate 

cf  Stones,  Precious  .  .  .2Sf)0"  (Flctclicr.) 

Age 70-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Everlasting 10-11"  (Orr) 

Age.  Old  Ag<> 71"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Regard  for 71" 

Agee 71'- 

Ages,  Rock  of 7 11' 

Aggaha....  . .71b;27b 

Aggaeus 71b 

Agia  (Apoc) 711' 

cf  Hattil i:5i:5h 

Ago  no 7 11' 

Agony 711'  (Pratt) 

Mental 72" 

Physical 72" 

Spiritual 72'' 

Agrapha 72:i  (Smith) 

cf  Logia 1910"  (Smith) 

Agrarian  Laws 74"  (Wiener) 

cf  Levitical  Cities  .  .  .  . 1S09"  (Wiener) 
cf  Priests  and  Levites  2  HO1'  (Wiener) 

Agree 7.V>  (Kapp) 

Agriculture 7.~)b  (Patchj 

cf  Blasting ISO"  (Patch) 

cf  Furrow 11. ">0"  (Patch) 

cf  Cleaning 12:5 11'  (Patch) 

cf  Harrow 1341"  (Patch) 

cf  Harvest 134  lb  (Patch) 

cf  Husbandry 14421'  (Patch) 

cf  Irrigation 1492b  (Patch) 

cf  Mill 20f>2"  (Patch) 

cf  Reaping 2f>34"  (Patch) 

cf  Seed 27 121'  (Easton) 

cf  Sheaf 27f,2"  (Patch) 

cf  Sheep 27r>0''  (Day) 

cf  Stubbln 2S07!l 

cf  Threshing 297.")''  (Patch) 

cf  Tools  .  .  .299S1'  (Easton) 

cf  \'ine  ...  .3049''  (Masterman) 

cf  Weaving  .  .  ..'5077"  (Patch) 

cf  Wheel  .  ,  .  .30S21'  (Easton) 


Agricult  ure  —  contin  iial 

cf  Winepress  

:50SO"  (Easton) 

Agrippa  (Herod)  

1378b  (Doskcr) 

Agrippina 

cf  Xero  

21:55"  (Angus) 

Ague  

78"  (Macalister) 

cf  Fever  

11071'  (Macalister) 

Agur  

7S"  (Cenung) 

cf  Jakeh  

l").")9b  (Crichton) 

cf  Proverbs,  Book  of. 

247  lb  (Genung) 

Ah 

cf  Ahi  

S3b 

Ah,  Aha  

7S"  (Mack);   1311" 

Ahab  

7S1'  (Mosiman) 

And  archaeology  .... 

S(V;  294" 

And  Benhadad  

779b  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

Building  operat  ions  .  . 

791' 

Death  of  

SO" 

And  Elijah  

79b 

Foreign  policv  

7Sb 

cf  Israel,  Historv  of  tin 

> 

People    

l.",21"  (Orelli) 

cf  Jehoshaphat  

loS2"  (Mosiman) 

cf  Jezebel  

107.")1'  (Roberts) 

Military  career  

79b 

Moabite  Stone  

20711'  (Saycc-) 

Murder  of  Xaboth.  .  . 

79" 

Reign  of  

78b 

Religious  policv  

79" 

Ahab  and  Zedekiah  .  .  .  . 

SO"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Aharah  

SO'1;  SO"  (Beecher) 

Aharhel  

SO1' 

Ahasai  (Alizai)  

S7b 

Ahasbai  

SO1' 

Ahasuerus  

S0b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Xorxps  

3120"  (East  on) 

Ahava  

SI"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Aha/,  

SI"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Dial  of  Aha/  

$41"  (Maunder) 

Fall  of  Damascus.  .  .  . 

82" 

Isaiah's  tablet  

SI1' 

Ahaxiah  

S21'  (Mosiman) 

cf  Chronology  of  (  )T  . 

.03.")"  (Mack) 

Eighth  king  of  Israel  . 

S2b 

cf  Jehoahaz  

.  lf)7">"  (Cenung) 

Sixth  king  of  Judah  . 

S3" 

Ahban  

.  S31' 

Aher  

83b 

cf  Ahiram  

Sti"  (Beecher) 

Ahi,  Ah  

,S3b;  Ob 

cf  Abijah  

10"  (Beecher) 

cf  Xames,  Proper  .  .  . 

.2113"  (Davis) 

Ahiah  

.  S3h 

Ahiam  

S31' 

Ahian  

.  s:;b 

Ahie/pr  

.S31' 

Ahihud  

S31' 

Ahijah  

S31'  (Beech(>r) 

cf  Ahimelech  

.  S.")" 

Aliikam  

SI"  (Beecher) 

cf  Uriah  

3010"  (Iviston) 

GENERAL  INDEX 


3177 


.7b  (Becch(T) 
.SO'1  (Beechcr) 
.  S5b 

.S5b 


.2202''  (Cioodspeed) 

.S6a 

.Sir1  (Beecherj;  SO1' 

.83b 


Ahilud ...SI1- 

Ahinuuiz S41'  (Bcechcr) 

Ahiinan S4b  (BeecherJ 

Ahimelech 85"  (Bcccher) 

cf  Aliijah S31'  (Becrher) 

cf  Abiathar  .... 

cf  Ahitub 

Ahinioth 

Ahinadab 

Ahinoain S.")1'  (Bcechcr) 

Ahio S")1'  (Beechcr; 

cf  Ostraca 

Ahira 

Ahiram 

cf  Ahcr 

cf  Ehi 91  C>" 

Ahirainitc SO1' 

Ahisamach S(>" 

Ahishahar S(>" 

Ahishar S(Vl 

Ahithophcl 8(>"  (Beecher) 

Ahitob SO1' 

Ahitul) SO1'  (Bcccher) 

cf  Abiatliar 7b  (Bcechcr) 

cf  Abitub 13b 

cf  Acitho 371' 

cf  Aliijah 83b 

cf  Ahimelech 85" 

Ahlab 87" 

Ahlai S7;i 

Ahoah 87" 

Ahohitc 87" 

Aholah  (Ohohih) 2181" 

Aholiab  (Oholiab) 2181" 

Aholibah  (Oholibah) 2181"  (\V.  W 

Aholibamah        (Oholiba- 

mali) 2181" 

Ahuinai 87" 

Ahura    Mazda     (Persian 

Religion) 2332"  (Tisdall) 

Ahuzzam 87" 

Ahuzzath 87" 

Ahzai S71' 

Ai S7b 

Aiah 88" 

Aiath 88" 

Aid 88" 

Aida 55b 

cf  Hadid 13ir)b 

Aija SS";  87b 

Aijalon 88"  (Mack) 

Aijcleth  Hash-slialiar 

cf  Song 2S301'  (Millar) 

Ail 88" 

Aim SSb 

Ain 88b  (W.  W.  Davics) 

cf  Ayin 342"  (W.  W.  Davics) 

Air 8Sb  (T.  T.cwis) 

Aims SSh 

Ajah SSb 

cf  Aiah  .  .  .88" 


Davics) 


(Alack) 

;  87b 
(Pratt) 


Ajalon  (Aijalon)  

88"  (Mackj 

Akati  

88b 

cf  Beeroth  Bcnc-jaakan 

424b 

Akatan  

88b 

cf  Hakkatan  

1321b 

Akeldama  

SO"  (Mastennan) 

cf  Hinnom,  \'alley  of, 

13!K5b  (Mastennan) 

Akkad,  Akkadians 

cf  Babylonia  

3(i.>  (Clayj 

Akkos  

SO";  34'' 

cf  llakkoz  

1321b 

Akkul)  

89a 

cf  lacubus  

llKi" 

cf  Jacubus  

1557a 

Akra 

cf  Jerusalem  

lt)13b  (Mastcrman) 

Akrabattine  

80" 

Akrabbim  

SO" 

Pass  of 

cf  Sola  

27l3b  (Ewingj 

Alabaster  

80" 

cf  Box  

512a 

Alameth  

89b 

cf  Alemeth  

90" 

Alammelech  

89" 

cf  Allammelech  

97b 

Alamoth 

cf  Music  

2094b  (Millar) 

Alarm  

S91'  (W.  W.  Da  vies) 

Albeit  

89b 

Alcimus  

89b  (Mack) 

Alcove  

89b 

Alema  

89b 

Al(>meth  

90" 

cf  Alameth  

89b 

cf  Allemeth  

98b 

Alcph  

90"  (Richardson) 

cf  Alphabet  

103b  (Richardson) 

Aleppo 

cf  Beroea  

440"  (E\ving) 

Alexander  

90"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Hymenaeus  

1  144"  (Rutherfurd) 

Alexander  Balas  

91"  (Fortune);  1141a 

Alexander  the  Great.  .  . 

91b   (J.  E.  H.   Thomson) 

4oOb  (Dosker) 

In  Asia  Minor  

274b  (Calder) 

cf  Macedonia  

1957a  (Tod) 

Alexandria  

93"  (Cobcrn) 

Alexandrian  Judaism 

857"  (Nicol) 

Christian  church  in  .  .  . 

95b 

Codex  

94b 

Jews  in  

93b 

cf  Septuagint  

2723"  (Thackeray) 

cf  Trade  

3002"  (Easton) 

University  of  

95" 

Alexandrian  Library.  .  . 

45(ib  (Dosker) 

Alexandrians  

96b 

Algum,  Almug  

9C,1'  (Masfennan) 

Allah  

97" 

Allan  

97" 

Alien  

97"  (Ilirsch) 

cf  Foreigner  

1128" 

3178 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Alienate 97:i  (Jacobs) 

Alive 97"  (Pratt) 

All 97b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Pentateuch 2309b  (Wiener) 

Allammelech 97b 

Allar 97b 

Allay 97'' 

Allege 97'' 

Allegiance 97b 

Allegory 97''  (Schoddc) 

cf  Accommodation  .     .29''  (Sweet) 

cf  Fable 1085"  (Easton) 

Alleluia  (Hallelujah)  .  .  .  .1323"  (Breslich) 
Allemeth 9S'> 

cf  Alemeth 90" 

Alliance 9S>>  (Cohon) 

cf  Covenant 727"  (Berry) 

Allied 99b 

Allom 99b 

Allon 99h 

Allon-bacuth 991' 

Allow,  Allowance 99'>  (Edwards) 

Alloy 99b 

cf  Tin 2985b 

Allure 99''  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Almighty 100" 

cf  God,  Names  of 120  I1'  (Mack) 

Almodad 100" 

cf  Abimael 11"  (Beecher) 

Almon 100" 

cf  Allemcth 9Sb 

Almon-diblathaim 100" 

Almond 100"  (Mastcrman 

cf  Bethel 443l>  (Ewing) 

cf  Candlestick,  Golden  553"  (Orr) 

cf  Flourish 1120"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Rod  of 100b 

Almost 100b  (Harry) 

cf  Fain 1080''  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Alms,  Alms-giving I01b  (Eager) 

cf  Poor 2120"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Almug  (Algum) 9Gb  (Masterman) 

Alnathan 102b 

Aloes 102b  (Masterman) 

Aloft 103'1 

Along 103b 

Aloth 103b 

Alpha  and  Omega 103b  (Harry) 

Alphabet 103b  (KicliardsonJ 

cf  Acrostic 38"  (Smith) 

cf  Csulhe 536" 

cf  He 134S" 

cf  Heth 1384b 

cf  Jod 16SS" 

cf  Kaph 1789b 

cf  Koph 1816b 

cf  Lamedh 1824" 

cf  Mem 2030" 

cf  Nun 2170" 

cf  Pe 2293" 

cf  Phoenicia 23X9"  (Porter) 


Alphabet — con  tinned 

cf  Resh 2561" 

cf  Samech 2674" 

cf  Shin,  Sin 2771" 

cf  Taw 2918" 

cf  Teth 29.-)0" 

cf  Text  of  OT 2958"  (Weir) 

cf  Wa  w 3075b 

cf  Writing 311Sb  (Richardson) 

cf  Yodh 3126" 

cf  /ay in 3133" 

Alphaeus IOC)"  (Fortune) 

cf  Clopas 669b  (Jacobs) 

cf      Mary      (wife       of 

Clopas) 20011'  (Sweet) 

Also 106b 

Altancua  (Maltanneus  .  .  1972'1 

Altar 10! >h  (Wiener) 

Of  Ahaz 109" 

Of  burnt  offering 110b 

cf  Horns  of  Altar.  .  .  1 1221'  (Caldecott) 

cf  Tabernacle 2889"  (Caldecott ;  Orr) 

cf  Temple,  Herod's  .2937"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Critical IOC.1'  (Wiener) 

Of  (lexer 110" 

Hebrew  altars 107" 

Horned  altar 10S>> 

cf  Horn 1-122"  (East on) 

cf  Horns  of  Altar.  .  .  1122''  (Caldecott) 

Idolatrous  altars 109b 

Of  incense 109b 

cf  Holy  Place 1405''  (Caldecott) 

cf  Horns  of  Altar.  .  .1122''  (Caldecott) 

cf  Incense 1  166b  (Orr) 

cf  Mercy-seat 2036"  (Caldecott 

AtTaanach.  ....'...  1  10" 

cf  Tabernacle 2891"  (Caldecott ;  Orr) 

cf    Table    of    Shew- 

bread 27671'  (Caldecott  i 

Of  Joshua 108b 

cf  High  Place 1390"  (Easton) 

cf  Ledge 18641' 

cf  Mercy-seat 2036"  (Caldecott) 

Patriarchal  altars Ill)1' 

cf  Pentateuch 2309''  (Wiener) 

Post -exilic  altar 109b 

Pre-Mosaic  altar 107'' 

Pre-tabernacle  altars.  .  110b 

cf  Sacrifice 2646"  (Reeve) 

cf  Sanctuary 2686b  (Wiener) 

cf  Staves 2850"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Tabernacle 2889"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Tabernacle  altar 108b 

cf  Asylum 316b  (Wiener) 

cf     Table,      of      Shew- 

bread 2767b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Temple 2938"  (Caldecott;  On) 

cf  Tongs 2994" 

cf  Triah 3039''  (Easton) 

In  worship   11  ()b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Worship 3111"  (Crannell) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Altashheth,  Altaschith 

cf  P.sahn.s,  Hook  of.  .  .  .2  1ST-'1  (Sampey) 

cf  Sons 28301'  (Millar) 

Altosct her 112"  (Trail) 

cf  Almost 1 OO1'  (I Tarry j 

Alush 1  1 21' 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  30<i  1"   (Condi  r) 

Alvah II-!1' 

Alvan 1121' 

Ahvay 112b 

Amad 112" 

Amadatha,  Amadathus 

cf  Ilammcdatha 13251' 

Amain 1 12'' 

Amal 1121' 

Amalek,  Amalekitc 112b  (Porter);  217" 

cf  Joshua 1743"  (Gcden) 

cf    Mount    of     Amale- 

kiles 2<)92b 

Amain 11 3" 

Ainan 11  3" 

cf  Xashas 2120"  (Angus) 

Amana 1  13"  (C.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Ahanali 3:l  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

Amariah 111?1'  (Breslich) 

Amarias 11)}!| 

Amarna,  Tell  el- 2925>>  (Kyle) 

cf     Archaeology     and 

Criticism 22t>"  (Kyle) 

Canaanite  civilization .  2927" 

Cuneiform  writing.  .  .  .  292(i" 

Diplomat  ic  correspond- 
ence   29271' 

Discovery 292.V' 

Egyptian  rule,  but 
Babylonian  lan- 
guage   29271' 

Geographical  value  .  .  .  292(>b 

cf  Ileberites 13541' 

cf  Hebrew loo")"  (Orr) 

Historical  value 292(>b 

cf  Jerusalem 1613b  (Masterman) 

cf  Libraries 1882"  (Richardson,! 

cf  Melchizedek 2()28b  (Roberts) 

cf  Moses 2083b  (Kyle) 

Name 2925b 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration    2223"  (Coberm 

Philological  value 292(>b 

Physical  character.  .  .  .272'.)" 

Problem  of  the  Habiri  2927b 

Proper  names 2921V1 

cf  Sidon 2785b  (Porter) 

Verification  of  Biblical 

statements 292(ib 

Amasa 1131'  (Wolf) 

cf  Joah 1()7S"  (Rol)erts) 

Amasai Ill1 

Amashsai 114" 

Amasiah Ill" 

Ainath,     Amathis     (Ha- 

math) .  .  ,  1324b  (Christie) 


Amalheis  (Ematheis). .  .  .940a 

Amazed 114"  (Pratt) 

. \maziah 114"  (Caldecott) 

Ambassador 11.?'  (Pratt) 

cf  Concordance G9()b  (Orr) 

Ambassage 11.")" 

Amber 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .28f)()"  (I'Metcher) 

Ambitious 1  lf)b 

Ambush 1 1  ")b 

Ambushment 115b  (Nicol) 

Amen 11.")"  (Millar) 

Amerce 11  ">b 

American    Revised    Ver- 
sion   1  Hi"  (Easton) 

cf  English  Versions  .  .  .9."ilb  (Hutcliison) 
Amethyst 

cf  Stones,  Precious  .  .  .2$,">6"  (Eletcher; 

Ami ll(Jb 

Amiable IKS1'  (M.  O.  Evans, 

cf  Tabernacle 2887b  (Caldeeott;  Orr) 

Aminadab lit)1' 

Amiss lllib 

Amittai 117" 

Ammah 117" 

cf  Gibeath 122ob  (Ewing) 

Ammi 117:i 

Ammidioi 1 1 7a 

Ammiel 117"  (Mack) 

Ammihud 117"  (Mack) 

Ammihur 117";  117b 

Amminadab 117b  (T.  Lewis) 

Amminadib 117b 

Amrnishaddai 117" 

Ammizabad 117h 

Ammon,  Ammonites.  .  .  .117b  (Porter) 

cf  Jephthah 1587"  (Schenk) 

Name 117b 

Religion 118a 

^"ar  with  Jot  ham 1754"  (Caldecott) 

Arnmonitess 118" 

Amnon 118" 

cf  Tamar 2907b  (Orr) 

Amok 118b 

Amon 118b  (Genung) 

cf  Josiah 1752"  (Genung) 

Amorites 119"  (Sayce);  446b 

cf  Mount  of  Amorites  2092b 
Amos 120"  (J.  Robertson) 

Book  of 122b 

Contents,  analysis  of .  .  122" 

Date 121b 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .  1538b  (Orelli) 

cf  Jeroboam  II 1594b  (Caldecott) 

Mission 121b 

Name 120b 

Native  place 120b 

Pc'rsonal  history 12()b 

Preparation 121" 

cf  Tekoa 2924"  (Masterman) 

Amos  (Lk  3  25) 125" 

Amoz  .  .  .  .  125b 


3180 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Ainphipnlis 125''  ('Foil 

Ani])lias 125b 

Ampliatus 12  5b 

Aninun 125b  (M;ickj 

Amramites 126" 

Amraphel 120 '(Pin  dies);  366"  (Clay) 

cf  Arioch 241"  (Pinches) 

cf  Chedorlaomer 500"  (Pinches) 

cf  Eri-aku 060b  (Pinches) 

cf  Hammurabi 1326"  (Pinches) 

cf  Pentateuch        2305"  (Wiener) 

cf  Tidal 2080"  (Pinclics) 

Amulet 120b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Charm 507b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Ma^ic,  Magician.  .  .  1063"  (T.  W.  Duvicsj 

cf  Xose-jc\vcls 2156"  (Pollard) 

Amzi 128" 

Anah 128" 

Anacl 128" 

Anah 128-  (Wolf) 

Anaharath 12s1' 

Anaiuh 12Sb 

Anak  (Anakim) 128b  (Sayec) 

Anakim 1281'  (Sayce) 

cf  Rcphaim 2f>r)<J>>  (Porter) 

Anuniini 120" 

cf  Tal)lc  of  Nations.  .  .2SOS1'  (Pinches) 
Arianiinclcch 120"  (Wolf) 

cf  Adrammelech 61b  (Beecher) 

Anun 120" 

Anuni 120" 

Ananiah 120" 

Ananias 120"  (Edwards) 

cf  Hanuniah 1333"  (Reeve) 

cf  Sai)phira 2600b 

Ananias  (Apoc) 130"  (Edwards! 

Ananiel 130" 

Anath 1:50" 

Anathema 1:50"  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Accursed 34b  (T.  Lewis) 

Anathoth i:5()h  (Ewing) 

cf  Jeremiah 158S"  (Orelli) 

Anathothite i:50h 

Anaxagoras 

cf  Logos 1012"  (Alexander; 

Ancestors I'M1' 

Anchor 

cf  Ships  and  Boats..  .  .2777"  (Xicol) 

Ancient i:50b  (T.  Lewis);    1:51" 

Ancient  of  Days 1. '!()'' 

Ancients 131"  (T.  Lewis' 

Ancle  (Ankle) 1:50" 

Andrew 131"  (Can1) 

In  apocryphal  lit 1311' 

Character 132" 

cf      James,      Son      of 

Zebedee 1560"  (Ken-) 

cf  Matthias 2012"  (Kerr) 

In  NT 131" 

cf  Philip 2368"  (Kerr) 

Andronicus 132"  (Jacobs) 

Anem .  .  .  .  132a 


Aner 132h  (Cohon) 

Aner  (place) 132b 

Anethothite          (Anal  ho- 

thite) 130'' 

Anetothite  (Anathol  hite)  130b 

An»vl i:52b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

In  NT 134" 

cf  Abaddon 2b  (Beecher) 

cf  Apollyon 201lj  (Sweet) 

cf  Host  of  Heaven.  .  14331'  (Orr) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1633"  (<  )rr) 

cf  Mediation 20201'  (Edwards) 

cf  Principality 245  lb  (Heidel) 

Reality  of 135" 

Teachings  of  Jesus. .  134b 

In  OT 133" 

Angel  Gabriel 133b;  1151"  (Orr) 

Angel  of  Jehovah.  .  .133b 

Archangel 133" 

cf  Cherub 603b 

cf  Demon 827b  (Sweet) 

cf  Satan 26031'  (Sweet) 

Angel  of  C!od 

cf  Angel 132b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Angel  of  Jehovah 

cf  Angel 133h  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Angels     of      the      Seven 

Churches 135b   (Bunks) 

Anger 135b  (Farr) 

cf  Fury 1150b 

cf  Wrath 3113"  (W.  Evans) 

Angle 135b 

Angling 136" 

cf  Fishing 1116"  (Patch) 

Anglo-Saxon  Versions 

cf  English  Versions  .  .  .045b  (Hutchison) 

Anguish 136"  (Pratt) 

Aniam 136" 

Anim 136"  (Masterman) 

Animal 136" 

Animal  Foods 1123"  (Eager) 

Animism 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .  1532"  (Orelli) 

Anise  or  Dill 136"  (Master-man) 

Ankle 136" 

Anklet,  Ankle-chain.  .  .  .  136b  (Eager) 

Anna 136b  (Pratt) 

Annaas 137" 

Annas 137"  (Edwards) 

cf  Jesus  Christ,  Arrest .  1670"  (Maclaren) 

cf  Priest,  High 2441b  (Reeve) 

Annis 137b 

Annul,  Disannul 137b  (Hirsch) 

Annunciation,  The 

cf  Jesus  Christ 163  lh  (Orr) 

Annus 137b 

Annuus 138" 

Anoint 138"  (Kapp) 

Anointing 138"  (Eager) 

cf  Oil,  Anointing 2183"  (Orr) 

cf  Ointment 2183"  (Patch) 

Uses .  .  .  .  138a 


OFNKRAL   INDKX 


3181 


Anon IMS1' 

Anos 13sb 

Anro  Mainyus  i  Aliriinan) 

ct'  Persian  Ilcligion   .  .  .2333"  (Tisdall) 

Answer IMS1'  (( icrberding) 

Answerable 13'.)" 

Anl 13'.);<  (Day; 

Antediluvian  Patriarchs  .  13'.):l  (Davis) 

ct'  Chronology  of  (  >T  .  .  t>3"):i  (Mack; 

ct'  Patriarch 2204"  (( )rr) 

Antediluvians 1  13"  (Wright) 

cf  Deluge  of  Noah.  .  .  .S211'  (Wright; 

cf  Ciants 122  lb  (( )rr) 

cf  Life 1S.SS"  (Reeve) 

cf  Xoah 21.13"  (Wright) 

cf  Patriarch 22(11"  (Orr) 

cf  Sons  of  C.od  (,OT;  .  .283.T1  (Cricliton) 
Antelope 11 3b  (Day; 

cf  Wild-ox 30Xlb  (Day) 

Anthedon 1  llb 

Anthothijah 1  1  lb 

Anthropology Ml1'  (Marais; 

Antiquity  of  man l~>la 

Evolutionary  theory.  .  MS;i;  l()lo;l  (/enosi 

cf  Clod,  linage  of 12olh  (Orr) 

Nature  of  man 1  l~>b 

Origin  of  man ll(Jb 

Primitive   and   present 

conditions  of  man. .  .  lot)1';  (»3~)"  (Mack  i 

Unity  of  race 11 7b 

cf  Woman 3100"  (Pratt) 

cf   World,    Cosmologi- 

cal SlOCy  (Orr) 

Anthropomorphism Io2b  (J.  Lindsay) 

Antichrist 151"  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

In    apocalyptic     writ- 
ings   loob 

cf    Johannine    The- 

ology 170,-)b  (Law) 

cf  Man  of  Sin 197f>"  (Orr) 

Mediaeval  views 1  ;">()" 

In  XT  and  OT l.~>lb 

cf  Paronsia 221'.)"  (Easton; 

In  patristic  writings.  .  lf)f)b 

Post-reformation  views  1  .">(>" 

cf  Zoroastrianism 31.~>7a  (Iviston) 

Antilegomena 

cf  Bible ir>«)b  (Orr) 

cf  Canon  of  NT o(»l  (Riggs) 

cf  Deutero-canonical 

Books 831 b  (Fortune) 

Anti-Libanus  (Lel)anon)   lS(>2b  (Wright; 
Antimony 

cf  Color f>71b  (Patch) 

Antinomianism 

In  1  John 17i:i''  (Law) 

Antioch  of  Pisi.lia l.")()b  (Calder) 

cf  (lalalia llol11  (Ramsay) 

cf  Pisidia 21()0b  (Calder; 

Antioch  in  Syria l.">7b  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Lystra 1944s1  (Calder) 

cf  Trade  .  .  .3()02a  (Easton) 


Ant  locliiaiis 
A nt  iochis .... 
Anl  loclius 

cf  Ti-yplioii 
All!  incline  I  . 

cf  SeleUCH- 
Anl  loclius  1 1 . 
Ant  ioclms  1 1 1 

cf  Marcabaeus ]'.)1lib 

Ant  ioclius      1  V      (  Kpiph- 

anes;  .  .  ...  IT)'.)1' f  Harry; ;  l.",Sb  (Pratt ; ; 

1  .")()b  (  Doskert ;  .").")SU 

cf    A  bom  i  n  a  lion    of 

Desolat  ion 17a  (Ilii-scli; 

cf  Jerusalem lt)17:i  (Mastennan) 

And  the  Maccabees    .  .  l!)llib  (Hutchison; 

Ant  ioclius  \r !")!)''  (Harry) 

Ant  ioclms  VI I.V.)1'  (Harry) 

Anfiochns  VII l(i()!l  (Harry) 

Antipas HiO:i 

cf  Herod i:S7Sb  (Dosker) 

Antipater ll')0:i 

Ant  i])atris KK)'1  (lowing) 

Antitniity KiO'1 

Antonia 

cf  Jerusalem l(')()2b  ( .Mastennan) 

Antothijah  (Anthothijah)  144b 

Antothite HiO" 

Ami 37()b  (Pvogers) 

Annb K)():l 

Anus  (Anmis) 137b 

Anvil Ki();i  (Patch) 

Apace ItiO1' 

Apame IGO1' 

cf  Bartacus l()tib 

cf  Illustrious M4!)h 

Apart l(H)b  (Pratt) 

Ape KiO1'  (Day) 

Apelles K)()b  (S.  F.  Hunter] 

Aphaerema ldla 

Apharsathchites,    Aphar- 

sachit.es Kit'1  (Wolf) 

Apharsites t(il:i 

Aphek l(')l:i  (Ewing) 

Aphekah 1(5  lb 

Apherema  (Aphaerema  .  ltil:i 

A])herra l()lb 

Aphiah ItH1' 

Aphik Kilb 

Aphrali  (Hethleai»hrah).  .119b 
Aphses 

cf  Happizzez l.'viii'1 

Apocalypse 

cf  Apocalyptic  Lit  .  .  .  .Kit'1  (J.  E.  II .  Thomson) 

Of  Baruch Kid1'  (J.  10.  II.  ThomsoiO 

Book  of  Jubilees 17M" 

cf  Revelation  of  John  .  2.")S2b  (Orr) 
Apocalypses 

Relation  of  Essenes  to  10031'  (,].  E.  H.  Thomson 
Apocalyptic 

cf  Jesus  Christ lt>:><)>1  (Orr) 

cf  Messiah  .  .2011''  (Crichton) 


GENERAL INDEX 


Apocalypt  ic  1  .iterature  . 

Ant  ichrist   in 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of . 

cf  Jesus  Christ 

Judaism     and    Hellen- 
istn 

Legendary  testaments 

cf  Messiah  .  .  .  . 

cf  Paradise 

Polit  ical  influence: 

cf  Prophecy 

Psalmic     ])sc-ud  cp  i  g- 
rapha   

Pseudonymity 

Relation  to  prophecy. 

cf  Revelation  of  John 

cf  Homo 

Sibylline  oracles 

Testaments 

Typical  apocalypses .  . 
Apocrypha 


llil1'  <,,}.  E.  I!.  Thomson) 


Books  included  in ... 
Date  of  apocryphal 

writings 

Doct  rine  in  early  ( Ireek 

philosophy 

cf  llo/.ai 

Judith 

cf  Judith,  Hook  of.  .  .  . 
cf  Maccabees,  Books  of. 
Original  languages  of  . 
Original  meanings  .  .  .  . 

Classical 

Hellenistic 

In  NT 

Patristic 

cf  Palest  ine 

References  to,  in  Jude 
of  Tohit,  Book  of.  . 

Usage 

Early  Christ  ian  .  .  .  . 
In  eastern  church  .  . 

By  reformers 

In  west  ern  church  .  . 

Apocryphal  Acts 

Acts  of  Andrew 

Arts  of  John 

Acts  of  Paul 

Acts  of  Peter 

Acts  of  Thomas 

Authorship 

Ecclesiast  ical    testi 

inony 

Among   eastern   wri 

ters 

Ecclesiastical  con 
demnation  .  .  . 

Phot  ius 

Among  western  wri 
ters .  . 


1T1- 

iii:;' 

102b 

2."»S2h  (Orr'} 

2ti20-  (Allen1) 

1TS- 

175* 

lGlb 

ITS1-  (T.  W.  Davies  ;  4.">Th 
(Dosker^,;  9:.l-  ^Hutch- 
ison) 

1S21' 


179b 

Ilo9-  (McAllister) 

1S2-;  is:;* 

ITTs''  (T.  W.  Davies) 

19  IS-  (T.  W.  Davies) 

is:;- 

IT!)1 

1T9" 

1  T',)b 

I79b 

lT9b 

2220-  vConder) 

1TTO-  (Moon-head) 

29901'  (V.  W.  Davies) 

179b 

ISO- 

ISO- 

LSI'' 

lSlb 

LS3b  (A.  F.  Findlay1) 

192b 

191b 

lss:> 

190" 

L93b 

1ST- 

ISti- 
186" 
lSGb 


186a 


Apocryphal  Acts  —continn< /I 

Extra-canonical 1SI- 

1'alse  and  heretical..  .  .  1S-1- 
deneral        characteris- 
tics  1S-1:1 

Influence 1ST'1 

cf  Literature,  Sub-apos  IS'.H)1'  (Cowan) 
Meaning  of  apocryphal  ISM1' 

Origin 1S.> 

cf  Publius 2r>01-  (K<'rr) 

Relationship  of  differ- 
ent acts IS?1 

Secret 1S1- 

Sinirces 1S."V' 

Canonical  acts IS,")1' 

Romances  of  travel  .  IS")1' 

Traditions 1S.V' 

cfThaddaeus 2W-1"  (Kerr) 

Value 1ST- 

As  history 1ST- 

As  records  of   early 

Christianity IS?1 

Apocryphal  Epistles I'M1'  (J .  M.  Wilson  • 

cf  Laodii'eans,  Ep.  to.  .IS.'}?1  (Hutherfurd  i 
Letter  attributed 

To  our  Lord 19-t1' 

To  Paul 1(.).~>- 

To  Peter 1 '.).")- 

Apocryphal  Cospels 19.")-  (Hutchison) 

Descent  of  Jesus 200" 

Early  gospels li).V' 

cf  Hebrews,  Gospel  ac- 
cording to lo(')2h  (Xicol) 

Heretical  gospels 19?' 

Of      Barnabas     and 
Bartholomew 19S- 

Of  theEbionites.  .  .  .  19T- 

Of  the  Egyptians.  .  .  19T- 

Of  Marcion 19T1' 

Of  Peter 19T1' 

Of  Twelve  Apostles.  19s- 
Introductory  history.  .  19")b 

Apocryphal  gospels  .  19C>:1 

Canonical  gospels  .  .  19">b 

Early  gosi>els 19.7' 

(lospel   according  to 

Hebrews 19u>' 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1153  I"  (Orr) 

cf  Literature,  Sub-apos  lS9Gb  (Cowan) 

cf  Philip 2iU)S"  (Kerr) 

cf  Pilate,  Pontius  .  .  .  .  239S-  (J.  M.  Wilson) 
Supplementary     or 

legendary  gospels.  .  .  19S- 

Actsof  Pilate 200- 

Arabic      Gospel      of 
Childhood 1991' 

IX-scent  of  Jesus  into 
Lower  World 200" 

Gospel  of  Infancy.  .  .199* 

Gospel  of  Joseph.  .  .  199* 

Gospel       of       the 
Nativity 19Sa 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3183 


Apocryphal  ( lospels — ronti.nn<'<l 

Supplementary  or  legendary  gospels 

Gospel    of     Nativity 

of  .Mary I  US'' 

Gospel  of  Ni<:odemus200:' 
Gospel  of  the  Passion  200" 
Gospel     of     Pseudo- 
Mat  I  hew 19Sh 

Gospel  of  Thomas  .  .  199" 
Other  fabrications.  .200" 
Passing  of  Mary..  .  .  199" 
Protevangeliurn      of 
James.  .  .  .  .198" 

cf  Thomas 2973"  (Kerr) 

Apollonia 200h  (Tod; 

Apollonius 200b  (Hutchison 

cf  Gennaeus 1214b 

cf  Menestheus   .  .  .2033" 

cf  Tlirasaeus 2975b 

Apollophanes 201" 

Apollos 201"  (Kerr; 

cf  Ep.  to  Hebrews.     .  .  1358b 

cf  Past  oral  Epistles  .  .  .22(50*  (Rutherfurd) 

Apollyon 201b  (Sweet  ;;  2b  (Beecher; 

NT  usage 201b 

OT  background 20 lb 

Apostasy,  Apostate 202b  (Pratt) 

cf  Idolatry 1147b  (Coborii) 

Apostles 202b  (Lambert; 

Apostles  in  Didache. .  .  203b 

Apostleship,  the 203b 

Call  of  apostles 1036b  (Orr) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 10  12"  (Orr; 

Paul 203a 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts  ....  2S43a  (Lambert; 

Twelve,  the 202b 

Wider  circle  of 203" 

Apostles' Creed 20  tb    (Orr);     742h    (Alex- 
ander) 

Form 20  1" 

History 205" 

Modern  controversies  .  206a 

Origin 205" 

Structure 20.7' 

cf  Virgin-birth 3057"  (Sweet) 

Apostles,    Gospel   of    the 
Twelve 
cf  Apocryphal  (lospels  195"  (Hutchison 

Apostolic  Age 20(5"  (Easton) 

Hellenism 207" 

Jerusalem  church  ....  20<5b 

Judaists 207" 

M  ission 20(Jb 

NT  canon 5(53"  (Rigg.~ 

Relations  with  Rome.  .207'' 

Spiritual  gifts 2S  13"  (Lambert; 

Apostolic    Church    Ordi- 
nances 

cf  Didache 3S7b  (A.  T.  Robertson  i 

Apostolic  Constitutions 

cf  Didache 3cS7b  (A.  T.  Robertson; 

Apostolic  Council 207b 


Apostolic    Father.- 

Epist  les  of 
cf     Literatun 

apos 

Apothecary 

cf  Perfumer  .  . 

Appaim 

Apparel 

Apparently 

Apparition 

Appeal 

Appear 

Appearance 

Appearing 

Appease 

Appertain 

Appetite 


.  189()b  (Cowan) 
.207'- 

.2321b  (Patch) 
.207'' 

.207''  (Pratt; 
.  2071' 
2I)7'J 

.  20.S"  (Jacobs) 
.20S"  (Pratt; 
.  20Sb 
.  2,')Sb 
.  20Sb 
.  20Sb 
.20Sb  (S.  F.  Hunter) 


Apphia 2!)sb 

Apphus 209"  (Wolf) 

Appii  Forum 209"  (Allen) 

cf  Market 1995b  (Railety) 

Apple,  Apple-tree 209"  (Masterman;;    1  12:. 

(Eager) 

cf  Beth-tappuah   453lj  (Masterman; 

cf  Tappuah 2909a  (lowing; 

Apple  of  the  Eye 209b  (W.  L.  Walker 

Apples  of  Sodom 210"  ''W.  L.  Walker) 

Apply 210" 

Appoint 210"  (Hirsch) 

Apprehend 210b 

cf  Comprehend (J95b  (Pratt) 

Approve 210b  (Jacobs) 

Apron 210b  (Eager; 

Apt 210b 

Aqueducts 059"  (A.  C.  Dickie; 

cf  Jericho 1592b  (Wright; 

Aquila 211"  (Kapp; 

And  Priscilla 

cf  Ep.  to  Hebrews .  .  1358"  (Rees) 

cf  Septuagint 2725b  (Thackeray) 

Ar,  Ar  of  Moab 211"  (Ewing) 

cf  Gad,  Valley  of 1152b  (Ewing) 

Ara 21  lb 

Arab,  Arabians  (Arabia)  213b  (Weir) 
Arabah 21  lb  (Wright; 

Geology  of  region 212" 

cf  Gomorrah 1277"  (Wright; 

History 213b 

cf  Jordan 1732b  (Wright; 

cf  Jordan  Valley 173.71  (Wright) 

cf  Lebanon 18(53"  (Wright; 

cf  Plain 240(ib  (Day) 

cf  Siddim 27s  1"  (Wright) 

cf  Sodom 2821b  (Wright; 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  30(55"  (Cornier; 
Arabattine  (Akrabattine;  S9" 
Arabia 213b  (Weir; 

Ilora  and  fauna 21tib 

Inhabitants 217" 

Name  and  situation. .  .  214" 

Physical  features 214b 

Political  divisions 215b 

Religion 2lSb 


3184 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Arabian 

d'  Arabia 

Arabic     Gospel     of     tlu: 

Infancy 

c.f  Apocryphal  Gospels  19.">"  (Hutchison; 
Arabic.  History  of  ,Josc])h 

1  lie  Carpenter 

ef  Apocryphal  Gos- 
pels   19;7>  (Hutchison) 

Arabic  Language 220-  (Boyd) 

Arabic  Versions 22 1"  (Weir) 

Arad 2211'  (Beecher) 

Aradus 22 1'1 

Arah 221b 

Aram 222- 

cf  Paddan-aram 220(1''  (Christie) 

cf  Syria 28S01'  (Christie) 

Aramaeans,  Arameans. .  .222- 
Aramaic 

ef  Lal)aii IS  10-  (Boyd) 

ef  Languages  of  OT.  .  .  lS3r>b  (Weirj 

ef  Seveiieh 27  14- 

ef  Syriac 28X3" 

Aramaic  Language 222-  (J.  E.  11.  Thomson) 

Biblical  evidences 222- 

Comparison  of  Biblical 
with  Assouan  Ara- 
maic  223b 

Comparison  of  Biblical 
with  Sinjirli  Ara- 
maic   22)5" 

Dialects,  Aramaic 222h 

Early  Scriptural  no- 
tices  222" 

Elephantine  papyri.  .  .221" 

Grammat  ical  const  ruc- 
tions 223" 

ef  Language  of  XT.  .  .  lS2(ib  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

ef  Languages  of  OT  .  .  1832-  (Weir) 

Script,  Aramaic 2221' 

cf  Syriac 2XS3- 

Aramaic  Versions 

ef  Tar-rums 2010-  (J.  V..  II.  Thomson) 

Aram-dammesek 22  4b 

cf  Syria .  .2880''  (Christie' 

Aramitess 22  4b 

Aram-maacah 

cf  Syria 2S801'    Christ  i, 

Aram-naharaim 

cf  Syria 2S80b  (Christie 

Aram-rehob 

cf  Syria 2SS01'  (Christ  iej 

Aram-zobah 

cf  Syria 28SOb  (Christie) 

Aran 224b  (Cohon) 

Ararat  (Ararah,  Ararath)  224b  (Wright) 

Arathes 22f>b  (Harry) 

Arannah,  the  Jebusite.  .  .  22f>b 

cf  Jerusalem 1(501"  (Masterman) 

Arba . . 


Arba,  City  of 
ef  Hebron  . 
Arbathite.  . 


13(55-  (Masterman) 


Arbatt.a 22;'>b  (Ewing) 

Arbela 22:>b  (living) 

cf  Beth-arbel 443-  (living) 

Arbite 22(5- 

Arbonai 22(5- 

Arch 22*5- 

Archacology 

ef  Inscription 1473" 

Archaeology   of   Asia. 

Minor 277"  (White) 

Byzantine  period 28  lh 

Early    influences   from 
Mesopotamia 277" 

First  millennium  BC.  .280" 

Hitt  ite  art,  second  mil- 
lennium BC 278" 

cf  Hittites 139f>b  (Cornier) 

Romans  in  Asia  Minor  281" 

cf  Pont  us 2418"  (White) 

Seljukian  Turks 282" 

Tablets   of    third    mil- 
lennium BC 2771' 

Archaeology    and    Criti- 
cism  22(5-  (Kyle) 

Function 22>>h 

History 220" 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  . 2S08b  (Pinches) 

ef  Tell  el-Amarna 2027a  (Kyle) 

Archangel  (Angel) 132b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Archelaus 233b 

cf  Herod 137Sb  (Dusker) 

Archery 233b  (Eager) 

ef  Shaft 271(5b 

Archevite 233b 

Archi  (Archites) 238b  (Wolf) 

Archippus 233b 

Architecture 234"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

ef  Building o27-  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  City 0(52-  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Estimates 231" 

cf  Fortification   1136b  (Nicol) 

Herodiari  work 238" 

ef  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Of  Jews 23  lb 

Maccabean  work 237b 

cf  Mason 2007- 

Painted  tombs  at  Ma- 
rissa 237b 

Plans 234" 

Solomon's  temple  and 
palace 234b 

Synagogues 238a 

Temi>le  of  Onias 237a 

cf  Temple 2030"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Archites 238b  (Wolf) 

cf  Ataroth 317"  (Ewing) 

Archives 238b 

Arcturus 238b 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 


GEXEKAL INDEX 


Arcturus  (Great  Boar) .     .313' 

Anl 23Xb 

cf  Addar "M" 

Ardat 23S'> 

Ardites  (Anl) 23S>- 

Ardon 23X1' 

Areli 23Sb 

Arelites  (Arcli) 238b 

Areopagite 

cf  Dionysius 850"  (Harry) 

Areopagus 23Xb  (I Tarry) 

Areopolis 2391' 

Arcs 239b 

Aretas 240:l  (Doskcr) 

Argob 240'  (Wolf);  2I01'  (Ewin 

cf  Og 21S()b  (Orr) 

of  Trachonilis 3001b   (Kwing) 

Argue 241" 

Arianism C)27b  (Orr) 

Ariarathes  (Arathes) .  .  .  .225''  (Harry) 

Aridai 241* 

Aridatha 241" 

Arieh  (Argob) 240"  (Wolf) 

Ariel 241"  (Beecher) 

cf  Idui'l 144S1' 

cf  Jerusalem 1596b  (Mastennan) 

Aright 241" 

Arimathaea 211"  (S.  F.  Hauler) 

Arioch 241"  (Pinches) 

cf  Hammurabi 1320"  (Pinches) 

cf  Tidal 2080"  (Pinches) 

Arisai 241b 

Aristarchus 24 lb  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Aristeas 

cf  Septuagint 2723"  (Thackeray) 

Aristobulus 2  Hb  (M.  ().  I] vans) 

cf  Asmoneans 2S3"  (Dosker) 

cf  Tlyrcanus 1445b 

cf  Maccabaeus 1946"  (Hutchison) 

Aristotle l()17b  (Alexander) 

cf  Logos 1912b  (Alexander) 

Arithmetic 

cf  Number 21571'  (Smith) 

Arius 242" 

cf  Lacedaemonians  .  .  .  1S191'  (Hutchison) 

cf  Oniares 2195b 

cf  Sparta 2S391'  (Orr) 

Ark 

cf  Libraries 1SS31'  (Richardson) 

Ark  of  Bulrushes 242"  (Kyle) 

cf  Moses 2084"  (Kyle) 

Ark  of  the  Covenant  .  .  .  .212b  (Lot/);  12"  (Beeche 

Contents  of 2  14" 

Form  of 2 43b 

History  of 245" 

cf  Holy  of  Holies 1405"  (Caldecott) 

At  Kiriath-jearim 1812b  (Masterman) 

cf  Mercy-seat,  The  .  .  .2030"  (Caldecott j 

Names  of 2Hb 

Pentateuch 24  2b 

Removal  by  David  .  .  .791"  (Weir) 

Significance  of 245" 


continued 

.  .2X<M)b;    2S921'    (Caldecott; 
Orr) 

cf  Temple 29331'  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Ark  of  Xoah 21(1"  (Wright) 

cf  Deluge S21b  (\\-right.J 

cf  Noah 2153"  (Wright) 

Ark  of  Test  imony 

cf  Ark  of  the  Covenant  ,212b  (Lot/) 

Arkite 24(ib  (Porter) 

Arm 24(ib  (S.  l'\  Hunter) 

Armageddon 24()b 

cf  Megiddo 20271'  (living) 

Armenia 21(ib  (Tisdallj 

Aryan 24Sb 

cf  Togarmah 29!)3b  (Pinches) 

Turanian 247b 

Armenian  Language.  .  .  .250b  (Tisdall) 

Armenian  Religion 249"  (Tisdall) 

Armenian      Versions     of 

Bible 219b  (Tisdall) 

Ancient 249b 

Modern 25()b 

cf  Versions,  Georgian  .304S"  (Easton) 

Armholc 250b  (\\ .  W.  Davies) 

Armlet 250b  (Eager) 

Armoni 251" 

cf  Mephibosheth 2()33b  (Wallace) 

Armor,  Arms 251"  (Xicol) 

Dart 789b 

Defensive  weapons. .  .  .  252b 

cf  Gorget 12791'  (Xicol) 

cf  Habergeon 1313" 

In  XT. 251" 

InOT 251" 

Offensive  weapons.  .  .  .251b 

cf  Rod 259()b  (Orr) 

cf  Shaft 271(ib 

Armor-b(>arer 254"  (Xicol) 

Armory 254b  (Xicol) 

Army 254b  (Xicol);  251"  (Xicol) 

Early  monarchy  of 
Israel 255" 

In  the  field 25Gb 

First  campaign  of  his- 
tory   254b 

Israelites     in      wilder- 
ness  254b 

Israelitish   tribes   after 
conquest 255" 

In  XT 257" 

Organization     of     He- 
brew army 256" 

cf  Rank 2530" 

cf  Rearward 253  I1' 

From  Solomon  on \vard  256" 

cf  War 30691'  (Xicol) 

Army,  Roman 25?'  (Allen);    3S2b  (Xicol) 

Allusions  in  XT 258" 

cf  Julius 178()b 

Organization 257" 

Arna . .  . . 258b 


3  ISO 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Arnan .  .25S'- 

Ami 2f)X>' 

Arnou 2.~>9"  (Kwing) 

Arod,  Arodi,  Arod  it  es.  .  .  2">9" 

Aroer 2.")9"  (lowing) 

Aroorite 2">9b 

Aroin 2r>9b 

Arpachshad  (Arphaxad )  .  2~>9b 

cf  Semites  .  .  .  .2717"  (Mack) 

Arpad 2.">9b  (S.  !•'.  Ilunto 

Arphaxad 2.19b 

Array 259b  (S.  V.  1 1  unto 

Arrest'  and  Trial  of  Jesus 

Christ 100Sb  (Maelarom 

Arrive 2o9b 

Arroganey 200" 

Arrow 

cf  Archery 

cf  Armor 

Arrows,  Divination  by. 
Arrowsnake 

cf  ()\\-l 221  ).">''  (Stratton-Port 

cf  Serpent    2730"  ('Day  i 

Arsaces 200"  (R.  I).  Wilson  ^ 

Arsareth  (Ar/aroth  I. .  . 

Arsiphurith 

Artaxerxes 

Artenias 200b 

Artemis 

cf  Diana S42b  (Hanks) 

Artificer 

cf  Crafts 73-1"  (Patch) 

Artillery 201" 

Art  isan 

cf  Crafts 73  I 

Arts 

cf  Crafts 7)51 

Aruhhoth 201 

Arumah 201 

Arvad,  Arvadites 21 11 

cf  Aradua 221'- 

cf  Island loll-  (Day> 

Arza 201b 

Arzareth 201 h 

As 201>> 

Asa 2011'  (W.  W.  Da\ 

Asadias 202:l 

cf  Hasadiali i:i!2:' 

Asael  (Asiel) 2S21' 

Asaliel 202il  (Beechen 

Asahiah 2021' 

Asaiah 2U21'  (W.  W.  Da\ 

Asana 2ii2h 

Asaph 2152''  (Millar) 

cf  Music 209  I1'  (Millar) 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of .  .  .  .24<>()h  (Sainpey) 

Asara 20.3" 

Asaramel 203:l  (Wolf; 

Asareel,  Asarel 21  >.'>' 

Asarelah  (Asharelah) . .  .  .207" 
Asbasareth(Asbacaphath)263a 

cf  Ashurbanipal 271b;  307b  (Clay, 


Ascalon 203" 

cf  Ashkel.m 209b  (Porter) 

Ascend 203"  (Farrj 

Ascension 203b       (Thomas);         01.") 

( Bovan  ) 

In  tiie  Ads 203b 

In  ihc  Gospels 203'' 

In  the  Hebrews 204" 

Of  Isaiah 1701'  i.I.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1000b  lOrr) 

In  Johannme  writings  2;')4b 

XT  teachings 20  lb 

In  Paulino  Epistles.  .  .204" 

In  Potrino  Epistles  .  .  .204" 

Problems 20.")" 

Relation  to  ( 'hrist  .  .  .  .  20">" 

Teaching     for     Chris- 
tians   20.")" 

Ascent 200>>  (Farr) 

Ascot  ics 

cf  Abstinence 2;">"  (Eager) 

Aschenax,  (Aslikenax  . .  .  .209'' 
Aseas 2oO>> 

cf  Isshijah  .  .  .  .l.")12b 

Asebebias.  .  .  .  .200b 

cf  Sarabias  (Apoc) .  .  .  .  209()b 

cf  Sherebiali 2704b  (Wolf) 

Asebias 20<>'' 

Asenath 200b  (Boyd) 

Aser 200b 

Aserer  (Serar) 27321' 

Ash 200b  (Masterman) 

Ash    (Hoar) 

cf  Astronomy 3()()b  (Manndor) 

Ashamed 207"  (Pratt) 

cf  Shame 2748"  (Stuart) 

Ashan 207" 

Asharelah 207" 

Ashbea 207b 

Aslibol,  Ashbelite 207b  (Wolf) 

Ashdod 207b  (Porter) 

Ashdoditos 207b 

Ashdoth  Pisgah 208" 

cf  Pi.-gah 2100"  (Ewing) 

Asher 208-  (Ewing) 

cf  Galilee 1103"  (Ewing) 

cf  Hazor 1347b  (Ewing) 

Asherah.  . 


cf  High  Place 1390"  (East on) 

Ashorirn 

cf  Semites 2717"  (Mack) 

Asherites 209" 

Ashes 209"  (Eager) 

cf  Heifer,  Red 13071'  (East on) 

Ashhur 2;i9b  (Cohon) 

Ashima 209b  (Sayce) 

cf  Gods 1271"  (Reeve) 

Ashkelon 2(>9b  (Porter) 

Ashkelonites.  .  .  .2">9b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


31 87 


Ashkonaz 2(>9b 

of  Table  of  Nations  ..  .2X9X1'  (Pinches; 

Ashnah 270"  (Masterman  > 

Ashpena/.  .  270"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Asliriel  (Asriel).  .  .2S7;i 

Ashlarolh,         Ashteroth- 
karnaini,  Beosh- 

(erah 270"  (Ewing) 

cf  Ashtorcth  .  .  .  .2701'  (Sayce) 

cf  Philistines 2377"  (Conder; 

Ash<  oral  hit  o 27()b 

Ashteroth-karnaim 27()il;  27():i  (Exvingi 

Ashtoreth.  ...  ...  .270'' (Sayce! ;  270"  (Ewing) 

cf  Cods  ...  ....  1271"  (Reeve) 

ef  Harlot 13391'  (Eager) 

of     Palestine,      Recent 

Exploration 2233"  (Coborn ) 

of  Phoenicia 23X0"       (Porter);       23X<)b 

(Porter) 

cf  Semites 2717"  (Mack) 

A.shur  (Ashhur) 209b  (Cohonj 

Ashurbaiiipal 27lh  (Clay);  3(i7h  (Clay.i 

Ashurites 272" 

Ash  vat  h 272" 

Asia.  .  272b  (Banks) 

cf  Lydia 1943"  (Banks) 

Asia  Minor 272b  (Calder) 

Christianity  in 270b 

Country 273" 

First  century  AD.  .  .  .  275b 

History 274" 

Asia  Minor,  Archaeology 

of 277"  (White) 

Byzantine  period 2Slb 

Early   influences  from 

Mesopotamia 277' 

First,  millennium  BC  .  .  2SO" 

of  HiUitos 13!).-)b  (Conder) 

Romans  in  Asia.  Minor  2s!1 

of  Pontus 241X"  (White; 

Seljukian  Turks 2S2" 

Tablets    of    third    mil- 
lennium BC 277'1 

2X2"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

2S2" 

2X2" 

2X2b 

.2X2'' 

2X2b 

.  .llli1' 

2130"  (Lambert 

2X2b 


L343" 

;Kapp. 


Asiarch 

Asibias 

Aside 

Asiel 

Asipha 

Ask 

of  Amiss 

cf  Prayer  

Askelon 

Asleep 2X2b  (Pratt) 

Asmodaeus 2X3"  (Hutchison; 

Asmoneans 2X3"  (Dosker) 

of  Aristobulus 212"  (M.  ().  Evans;. 

Decadence1    of    Maoea- 
bean  House 2X.V' 

of  (lovormnent 12X9"  (Ileidel: 

of  (irecce,  Sons  of  ....  13().rl 

of  Hasnioneans l.">27b  (Weir) 

of  John  .  .  .17()(Jb  (Hutchison! 


Asmoneans — continue' I 
John  Hyrcanus. .  . 

Jonathan 

Judas  Maccabaeus. 
cf  Maccabaeus  . . 


Mattathias 

of    Mattathias 

cf  Palest  inc 

cf  Pharisees 

Simon 

Asnah.  . 

Asnappor  (Aslmrbanipal) 

Asochis,  Plain  of 

of  Cana  of  (ialilee  . .  .  . 

Asom 

Asp 

cf  Adder 
Aspalathus 

Aspatha 

Asphalt 

of  Slime 

Asphar,  The  Pool 

Aspharasus 

Asriel 

Ass 

of  Horse 

Assalimoth  (Salimoth). . 

Assamias 

Assaphioth 

Assarion 

cf  Farthing 

Assassination 

cf  Crimea 

Assassins 

of  Felix  Antonius  .... 

of  Murderers 

cf  Thief  .  . 

cf  Zealot 

Assault 

Assay 

Assemblies,  Masters  of. 

of  Asuppim 

of  Master 

Assembly 

cf  Church 

of  Congregation 

Assembly,  Solemn 

of  Congregation 

of  Feasts  and  Fasts.  . 
Assent  .  . 


(Hutchison);    1947b 
W.  Daviesj 

(Angus) 

(Cornier; 

(J.E.  H.  Thomson) 


Assessor 

of  Tax,  Taxin;.1,-. 

Asseurus 

Asshur,  Assur 

of  Assyria 

Asshurim 

Assideans 

of  Hasidaeans    . 

Assiduous 

Assign 

Assir .  . 


.  1098b 

.288"  (Hirsch) 

.710"  (Hirsch) 

.288°  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

.  lH):>b  (Kerr) 

.2094"  (Niool) 

.2972"  (Ivistoii) 

.3133b  (Ileidel; 

.  2S8b 

.2XXb  (Nicol) 

.2XXb  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

.316b 

.2007b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

.2X9"  (Kapp) 

.(>.")0b  (Lambert  . 

.  700b  (Wiener) 

.TOO1'  (Wiener 

.  1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs- 

.  2X9" 

.2X9"  (Eager) 

.2918"  (Sweet) 

.X()b  (R.  D.  Wilson  i 


.  1342b  (Hutchison 
.  2X9b 

.2X9'' 
.  289b 


3188 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Associate.                         .  .  289b  Astaroth  (Ashtaroth)..  .  .270"  (Ewing) 
Assos ..  .2891'  (Banks)  Astarte,    Astoreth    (Ash- 
Assuage 290"  taroth) 270a  (Ewing) 

Assumi)tion  of  Moses..  .  .  101b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson)  cf  Images 1452"  (Cobern) 

Assur  Astath 295b 

cf  Asur 316b  cf  Azgad 344b 

Assurance 290"  (Pratt  Astonished,  Astonied. .  .  .295b  (Pratt) 

Assurbanipal  Astonishment 295b 

cf  Ashurbanipal 271b  (Clay);   307b  (Clay)         Astray 295b  (Pratt) 

Assyria 2901'  (Sayce)  Astrologers .  .297" 

Art 291b  Astrology 295b      (Maunder);       800b 

Chronology 293"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Climate       and       pro-  Astrologers..                 ,297a 

due I  ions 290b  Chiun  worship.              .298" 

Early  history 29()b  Divination.. 

cf  Amoritcs 119"  (Sayce)  <'f  Familiar  .  .                 .  1094"  (Pollard) 

Excavations 293"  <'f  Fortune  .                 .  .1141" 

cf  Sherghat 27G41'  (Banks)  cf  Gad,  God  of  Good 

Furniture,  pottery  and  I^"rk .  .                       .    1 152"  (Stearns) 

embroidery 292"  Gadh  and  Meni 

Geography 290b  cf  Golden  Calf.  .         .    1275" 

Government  and  army  292"  "Lookingin  the  liver"  .290'' 

History 293b  cf  Liver ..                      190.7'  (Luering) 

Ashurbanipal.  .       .  .294b  <Jf  i-ucifer  . 

Fall  of  empire 294b  cf  M"P  •                            1{)l>-1  (Tisdall) 

Older  empire 293b  Mazzaloth.  . 

Second  empire.  .        294"  cfMeni.. 

Tiglath-pileser 294"  cf  Moloch.  .                   .2075'- 

ef  Inscription 1473"  Monthly    prognosti- 

Language,       literature,  cators 297b 

science 292"  cf  -Moon  •                        -()sl"  (*chenk) 

cf  Nineveh,   Library  cf  Rephan                     ..2500" 

of                             ..2151"    (Sayce)  Sat  urn  or  Moloch  wor- 

Meehanics 291''  ship.. 

cf  Menahem 2031b  (Caldccott)  cf1  Calf,  Golden.         .542''  (Cobern) 

rf  Pckah 2295b  (Caldecottj  Soothsaying..                  290" 

cf  Phoenicia 2390'' (Porter)  Stargazers..                    2971' 

Population 291"  Systems  of.  . 

cf  Hab-saris 2522b  (Clippinger)  cf  Week  .                           3078b 

Uc-lijrion 292b  cf  Wise  Men  .                .3096b  (East on) 

cf  Babylonia 358b  (Clay)  Astronomy  .                     .  .300b  (Maunder) 

cf     Babylonia,     Re-  cf  Abyss  .                     .26"  (T.  Lewis) 

licrion  of 30Sb  (Rogers)  Cherubim  .  . 

cf  Semites 2717"  (Mack)  Constellations. 

cf  Shalmanescr 2747''  (Nicol)  cf  Day-star.  .                   SOO"  (Maunder) 

cf       Sherghat,       or  Destruction,  city  of ..  .302" 

Asshur. 27041'  (Banks)  Eclipses.  .                     .  .303h;  310" 

ef  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2775b  (Nicol)  Falling  stars.  . 

Trade  and  Law .  .       ..291"  cf       Feasts,      Seasons 

cf  Amraphcl 120"  (Pinches)  for.  . 

cf  Tyre 303 lb  (Porter)  cf  Golden  Number.  .  .  .  1275" 

Assyria  and  Babylonia,  Groat  Bear..               -.313" 

Religion  of  ...             .  .3GSb  (Rogers)  cf     Heavens,      Phy- 

Assyrian  and  Babylonian  sicsil.  ...                   .  .  1352b 

Libraries  ('f  Host  of  Heaven  ....  1433b  (Orr) 

cf  Nineveh,  Library  of .  2151"  <  Sayce)  cf  Leviathan  .  .             .  .  1808"  (Day) 

Assyrian  Captivity 2747b  (Nicol)  ef  Magi  .                      .  .  1902a  (Tisdall) 

Assyrians 295"  cf  Mazzaroth  .  .  . 

cf  Israel,  History  of ...  1522"  (Orelli)  cf  Merodach .  .                203Gb 

Astad 295"  cf  Month  .                      -  2081"  (Porter) 

cf  Azgad 344b  Moon .  .  303a 

cf  Sadas  .                     .  .2G58a  cf  Moon 2081"  (Schenk) 


GEXERAL  IXDEX 


3189 


Asl  ronoiny — caul  in  n<-<! 

Morning  stars 308" 

cf  Xiinrod  .  ...  .21-17''  (Muck) 

cf  North 21.-).?'  (Day) 

Ordinances       of       the 
heaven 301" 

Orion 312" 

Physiography 314" 

Pleiades 31 11' 

cf  Ruhub 2r)2r>h  (X.  Isaacs) 

cf  Sabbaths 2031'" 

cf  Sabbatical 263  I1'  (Buur) 

Seasons 30  1" 

cf  Seasons 27101'  (Joy) 

cf  Serpent,  Crooked.  .  .  273S'" 

Signs  of  Zodiac 312'' 

cf     South,     Chambers 
of 2S3S'> 

Stars 300'" 

Sun 301'' 

cf  Time 29X2"  (Porter) 

cf  Tires,  Round 29X0" 

Wandering  stars 30Sb 

cf  Week 307Sb 

cf      Wormwood,      The 

Star 3110-  (Orr) 

cf  Year 3120" 

Astyages 310"  (Harry) 

Asunder 310"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Asuppim 310'' 

Asur 310b 

Asylum 310'1  (Wiener) 

cf  Homicide 14 IS11  (Levertoff) 

Asyncritus 31 7 " 

At  ad  (Abel-mizruim) .  .  .  .6a  (Bceeher) 

Atar 317:l 

Atarah 317" 

Atargatis,  Atergatis 317;i  (Sayee) 

Ataroth 317"  (Ewing) 

Ater 3171' 

Aterezaias 317b 

Ateta 3171' 

Athach 317h 

Athaiah 31 71' 

Athaliah 3171'  (Caldecott) 

cf  Jehoash 1575b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Jehoiada 1578"  (Roberts) 

cf  Juduh,  Kgd.  of.  .  .  .1700"  (Weir) 

Athanasian  Creed 743"  (Alexander) 

Atharias 

cf  Tirshatha 29S01'  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Atharim 31Sb 

cf  Hormah 1422a  (Ewing) 

Atheism 31S!l  (Kapp) 

cf  Creation 738"  (J.  Lindsay) 

cf  God 1250-  (Rees) 

Athenians 319b 

cf  Athens 319b  (Harry) 

Athenobius 319b 

Athens 319b  (Harry) 

Church  in 1903b  (Cowan) 

cf  Unknown  God 3037b  (Eastern) 


Athlai.  .  320b 

Atipha  (Hutiphu; 1313'' 

At,  One.  .  .  321" 

Atonement  .  .  321"  (Carver;;  <>27b 

Day  of.  .  .  .324''  (Moller; 

cf  Genesis  .  .  .  1207"  (Moller; 

History  of 327" 

cf  Holy  of  Holies.  .  .  14 Of,"  (Culdecott ) 
Legal  enactments  .  .  32  I1' 

cf  Leviticus 1S70"  (Moller; 

cf  Mercy-seat 2030"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Propitiation 2107"  (Carver; 

Significance;  of 320" 

And  forgiveness 1 135" 

cf  Imputation 1402:|  (Hodge) 

cf  Lamb  of  Cod 1S23"  (Bevan) 

Love  as  secret,  of 109S'1  (Law; 

cf  Mediation 201  S"  (Edwards; 

cf  (  Hiedience  of  Christ  .217.1''  (Crannell; 

cf  Pauline  Theology.  .  .2291''  (Easton; 

cf  Propitiation 2-107"  (Carver) 

cf  Reconcile 2530"  (M'Cuig) 

cf  Salvation 20091'  (Easton; 

Alroth-beth-joub  .          .  .328" 

cf  Joab 11)77''  (Roberts) 

Atroth-shophan 32S" 

Attai 328" 

Attain 32S"  (Hirsch) 

At  t alia 32S"  (Banks) 

cf  Pamphylia 2230b  (Banks) 

Attains 32M> 

Attend,  Attendance 32Sb 

At  tent,  Attentive 32sb 

Attharates 32S'> 

cf  Tirshatha 29X01'  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Atthurias,  Atharias 

cf  Tirshatha 29801'  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Attire,  Dyed  Attire 32,8"  (Eager) 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

Attitudes 329"  (W.  W.  Duvies) 

cf  Adorat  ion 00"  (Edwards) 

Bowing 330" 

cf  Gesture 1220"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Kneeling 330" 

cf  Knee,  Kneel 1815"  (Easton) 

Prostration 330b 

Standing 329'' 

Attus  (Hattush) 1343b  (Wolf) 

Audience 331" 

Augia 331" 

Augurs'  Oak 331"  (T.  W.  Duvies) 

cf  Divination 800"  (T.  W.  Duvies; 

cf  Meonenim 2033'' 

Augury 331"  (T.  W.  Duvies) 

Among  t  lie  Greeks.  .  .  .  331'' 

Among  the  Hebrews.  .  331'' 

Among  the  Romans..  .331" 

cf  Astrology 290"  (Maunder) 

cf  Divination 800"  (T.  W.  Duvies > 

Augustan  Band 258"  (Allen);  382b  (Xi<-()l) 

cf  Army,  Roman  .  .     .  .  257"  (Allen) 


3190 


GENERAL  1XDEX 


August  us 

332-  (Hutchison) 
.941b 
341" 
332b 

Azaelus 

342" 
344b 

34  2" 
342- 
288" 
263a 
342" 
342- 
'2732-  (Wolf) 
342- 
342- 
30441'  (Rol)erts) 
342-  (W.  W.  Da  vies) 
2178b  (Roberts) 
324'' 
7S71'  (R.  D.  Wilson) 
269  lb 
342b 
342b 
342-  (Moller) 
21  M1'  (Sweet) 
344- 

cf  Emperor  .... 
Aul  (  V\vlj 

Azal  (Azel)  
Azaliah 

Yzaniah 

cf  Relationships 
Family  
Auranitis  (llauran    . 
Austere  
Aut  hor 

2554a(N.andE.D.  Isaacs) 
.  1314"  (Ewing) 
.322''  (Pratt) 
333"  (Edwards) 

A/aphion  (Assaphioth)  . 
Azara  (Asara)  
Azaraol  (Azarel)  
Azaraias 

cf  Seraiah  
Azareel  (Azarel)  
Azarel 

Authority,  in  General 
cf    Authority,    in    R< 

ligion  
cf  Truth 

.333-  (Rees) 
3025"  (Carver) 
.333a  (Rees) 
.  334'' 
.  335- 
336a 
S06>'  (Rees) 
.335b 

— 

338b 
,337b 
.  33S" 
337b 

cf  T'zziel  .  . 
Azariah  
cf  Oded 

Authority,  in  Religion  .  . 
Biblical  references  .  .  . 
Biblical  teaching  .... 
XT  teaching  

A/arias  
Prayer  of  
cf  Saraias  
Azaru 

cf  Doct  rine  

OT  teaching  
Classification   of   thc< 
ries  

Azaz  

Azazel 

cf  Night-monster.  .  .  . 

Ecclesiast  ical  doct  rine 
Absolutism  

Azbasareh  (Asbasareth). 
Azbasaret  h  (Asbasareth) 
Azbuk    . 

263- 
.263- 
344- 
3  11-  (Masterman) 
3411' 
344b 
260- 
344b 
344b 
344b 
344b 
344b 
34  4  b 
34.')- 
345" 
345" 
34,-)- 
345- 
34.-,- 
34.-y 
345'' 
34.-,'- 
342b 
34r,b 
1178''  (Porter) 
34.-,'' 
345b 

34.-,'  (Sayce,;   3461'  (Pratt) 
345" 
347- 
423b  (Rees) 
340" 
1224a  (Masterman) 
.  1271a  (Reeve) 
167.",b  (Roberts) 
345- 
2389b  (Porter) 
c 
2717-  (Mack) 

Reformation    princ 
j)les  
Skepticism  
General  idea  
Authorized  Version.  .  .  . 
cf  English  Versions  .  . 
Auxilia,  Roman  

- 
,338s 

.  33S- 
.333'' 
.  !C,9-  (Orr) 
04-")1'  (Hutchison) 
.2.17''  (Allen) 
340b 
.  340" 

A/.ekah  .  . 

\ZC1 

A  /em                       

Aze])hurith  (Arsiphurith) 
\zetas 

\/t>'ad 

Ava  (Avva)  

\xiei 

Avail    

\/iel 

A  varan                        .  . 

.340" 

Aziza  
Azmaveth  (person)  .... 
Azmaveth  (j)lacc)  
Azmon  

Aven    ...           

.  340" 

Avenge  Avenger 

34()!l  (Breslich) 

cf  (  loel 

.1272''  (Breslich) 

cf  Revenue  

.2587"  (Breslicli 

Averse  

.340b 

\/or 

Avesta 

cf  Persian  Religion  .  . 
Avim  (Avva)  

.2331''  (Tisdall) 
.340b 
.34()'>  (Sayce) 
,340b(Sayce) 
.  340h 

Azotus                   

Aznel 

Avims  (Avvim)  
Avites  (Avvim)  

\zubah               .        ... 

Avith                         .  . 

Azuran  (Azaru)  
Azzah  

cf  G'i'/'l 

Avoid   .             .        

.340b 

Avouch  

.  340'' 

Avva  

.340'' 
.340''  (Sayce 
340b 

Avvim,  Avites  
Await 

Azznr  

Baal 

.340''  (Pratt  i 
3  1  1  < 

Attributes  

Awe 

341-  (Edwards 

cf  Baalath-beer  .     . 
cf  Beelzebub  
Forms  of  

Awl 

.341° 

504"  (T    Lewisi 

cf  Tools  
Ax  Axhead                .  .  .  . 

.2998h  (East  on) 
.341*  (Patch) 
.2998b  (Easton) 

,30S2b  (Easton) 

cf  Gezer  .             

cf  Gods  
cf  Jezebel                .  .  . 

cf  Tools  
Axle,  Axle-tree 
cf  Wheel  

Name  and  character, 
cf  Phoenicia  
cf      Semites,       Semiti 
Religion.  . 

Ayin                     

.342-  (W.  W.  Da  vies 
.342a 

Azael  .  . 

GENERAL INDEX 


3191 


Baal — continued 

Temples  of 340" 

Worship 340- 

Baalah 347"  (Masterman) 

Baalath 347" 

Baalath-beer 347- 

Baalbek 347" 

cf  Avon 3-10" 

cf  On 2193"  (Kyle; 

Baal-berith  .  .  .  .  .347a 

cf  Baal 340"  (Sayce 

Baale-judah 

cf  Kiriath-jearim 181  lb  (Mastcnnanj 

Baal-gad 347" 

Baal-hamon 

cf  Baal 3  Hi1'  (Sayee) 

Baal-hanan 347:l 

Baal-hazor 347:i 

Baal-hermon 347b 

cf  Baal 34G>>  (Sayce) 

Baali 347b 

Baalim 

cf  Baal .34,-y  (Sayce) 

Baalis .  .347b 

Baal-meon 347b  (Ewing) 

Baal-peor 

cf  Baal 346b  (Sayce) 

cf  Zimri 3149b  (Roberts 

Baal-perazim 347b  (Masterman; 

cf  Perazim,  Mount  .  .  .2320- 

Baalsamus 347b 

Baal-shalishah 347b  (Ewing) 

Baal-tamar 348- 

Baalzebub 348- 

cf  Baal 34Gb  (Sayce) 

cf  Gods 1271-  (Reeve) 

Baal-zcphon 348-  (Conder) 

Baana 348" 

Baanah 348" 

Baani 348- 

Baani  (Apoc) 

cf  Maani 19  LI1' 

Baanias 

cf  Banneas  (Apoc).  .  .384" 

Baara 348- 

Baaseiah 348- 

cf  Maaseiah 1946-  (Lees) 

Baasha 348-  (Brcslich);    2(5! 

cf  Elah 916b  (Mosiman) 

cf  Zimri 3150°  (Mosiman) 

Babbler 34Sb  (Rees) 

Babbling 34Sb 

Babe 348b  (Rees) 

Babel,     Babylon     (topo- 
graphical)   349-  (Clay) 

Babel,  Babylon 350-  (Pinches) 

cf  Calah 539b  (Pinches) 

Date  of  foundation.  .  .3.">():i;  3">">b 

Descriptions  of  ruins.  . 3")2b 

Hanging  gardens 3")l:i;  354'" 

Location,  plan  and 
temple 3/>()b 


Babel,  ]  )al)\"lon — con/in  in-il 

Modern  explorations.  . 3")2b 

Nebuchadrezzar's     ac- 
count  3')  lb 

Palace     and     walls 
(Ctesias) 3/)l" 

Palaces 3 SI1';  3531' 

cf  Shinar 2772b  (Pinches; 

Temple  of  Belus 3 ")!•'' 

Temple  restored   3.r>2" 

cf  Babel,  Tower  of.  .3")-)''  (Pinches i 

cf        Tongues,        Con- 
fusion of.  .               .  .  .2994h  (East on j 
Babel,  Tow(vr  of 3.r>.'~>b  (Pinches) 

Babylonian        descrip- 
tion   3o(>- 

cf  Calah r)3!)b  (Pinches; 

Herodotus'  descript  ion  3.r)7- 

Location 3")-)b 

cf  Shinar 2772b  (Pinches,) 

cf       Tongues,        Con- 
fusion of 2994b  (Kaston) 

\N'alk    through    Baby- 
lon   3r>4- 

"\\ralls  and  gates 3o()b 

Work  of  Nebuchadrez- 
zar  3(3  lb 

\\'orks     of     Semiramis 

and  Nitocris 3o()b 

Babi 3.1S--' 

Babylon  in  NT 358-  (Fortunc>) 

Babylon  in  OT 

cf  Babel,  Babylon.  .  .  .350-  (Pinches) 
Babylonia 358b  (Clay) 

Accommodation 33-  (Sweet ) 

Architecture 3(5 11' 

cf  Babel,  Babylon  .  ,351b  (Pinches; 

Art ~ 302- 

Lapidist's  work  ....  3(52- 

Metal  work 3(52- 

Sculpture 3()2a 

Babylonian  Dynasty.  .3(57- 

Ashurbanipal 3G7b 

Esarhaddon 367- 

Nabopolassar 367b 

Sennacherib 367- 

Cassite  Dynasty 3G6- 

City  kingdoms 3G4b 

Excavations   and    tali- 
lets 359" 

First    dy  n  a  s  1  y    o  f 
Babylon.  .              .     .365b 
Hamnnira!)! 3G(5- 

cf  Gods 12701-  (Reeve) 

Inhabitants 300" 

Semites 3(50- 

Sumerians 3(50:| 

cf  Inscription 1473- 

Isin  Dynasty 3(5(5b 

Nebuchadrezzar  I     .  366h 
Language .  .  .  .361" 


3102 


GENERAL INDEX 


Babylonia — continued 

Libraries 3G3;1 

Ashurbanipal 3G3" 

At  Nippur 3G3" 

At  Sippar 3(53" 

Literature 3(i2'' 

cf  Ashurbanipal 271h  (Clay) 

cf  Babylonia  and  As- 
syria, Religion  of.3081'  (Rogers) 

cf  Code  of  Ham- 
murabi  1327"  (Ungnai 

cf  Tell  el-Amarna  .  .292;?'  (Kyle) 

Names,  personal 3G3b 

Neo-Babylonian     Em- 
pire   307'' 

cf  Captivity .">72h  (Nicolj 

Evil-Merodach 3l>71' 

Nabonidus 3G7b 

Nabopolassar 3G7b 

Nebuchadrezzar  II  .3(57'' 
Persian  rule .'ids' 

Cambyses .'!(>S'1 

Cyrus 3GS;i 

Sealand  Dynasty 3GG-'1 

cf      Semites,      Semitic 

Religion 2717"  (Mack- 

Writing 3Gl;l 

Babylonia    and    Assyria, 

Religion  of 3GSh  (Rogers) 

Astral    theory    of    the 

universe 37  4a 

History 3G9 ' 

Major  and  minor 
deities 3G9b 

Monotheism  an  im- 
possible concep- 
tion  37()a 

Hymns  and  prayers  .  ,372a 

Life  after  death 373" 

Magic 373a 

Maqlu 373" 

Shurpu 373' 

cf  Merodach 203Gb 

Myths  and  epics 373b 

Adapa,  story  of  ...  .  373b 

Deluge,  story  of .  .  .  .  374a 

Gilgames,  story  of.  .374a 

cf  Nebo 212Gb 

cf  Nergal 2134b 

cf  Nimrod 2147b  (Mack) 

cf  Nisroch 2153" 

Pantheon 370h 

Aim 370b 

Asshur 372" 

Ea 370b 

Enlil 370b 

Ishtar 37 1'1 

Marduk 371b 

Nabu 371h 

Nergal 371b 

Ninib 372" 

Rammon .  ,  .  .  372a 


Babylonia  and  Assyria,  Religion  of — continued 

Pantheon — con  tin  ucd 

Shamash 37  la 

Sin 371" 

Tammuz 372a 

Relations     with     reli- 
gion of  Israel 375a 

cf    World,    Cosmologi- 

cal 3107''(Orr) 

Babylonian  Captivity.  .  .  375b 

cf  Captivity .Ki!)1'  (Nicol) 

Babylonians 375b 

cf  Jeremiah 1  .ISO1'  (Orelli) 

Babylonish  Garment.  .  .  .  375b 

Babylonish  Mantle 375b  (Beecher) 

Baca 37f)b  (Beecher) 

Bacchides 37/Jb  (Breslirh) 

ef  Alcimus S9b  (Mack) 

cf     Maccabees    (Jona- 
than, Judas) 1947"  (Hutchison) 

cf  Nicanor 2141"  (Angus) 

Bacchurus 37Ga 

Bacchus 37G:i  (Rees) 

cf    Abomination    of 

Desolation.  .  .  .  17h  (Hirsch) 

cf  Dionysia S  ")0a  (Harry) 

Bacenor 37G" 

Bachrite 

cf  Becher 421" 

Back,  Back  Parts 37G"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Backbite 37Gb 

Backbiters 37Gb 

Backbiting 37Gb 

Backside 

cf  Back 37G"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Backslide 37Gb 

cf  Apostasy 202"  (Pratt) 

Backslider 37Gb 

Badger 37Gb  (Day) 

cf  Porpoise 2422a 

cf  Sealskin 2709b 

Baean 377" 

cf  Maon 1984a  (E\ving) 

.    Bag 377a  (Eager; 

cf  Scrip 270.V' 

Baggage 377b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Bago 378a 

Bagoas 37Sa 

cf  Judith 177Sa 

Bagoi 37Sa 

Baharumite,  Barhumite.  378a 
Bahurim 37Sa  (Ewing) 

cf  Olives,  Mount  of.  .  .21SGh  (Masterman) 

Baiterus 37Sa 

Bajith  (Bayith) 378" 

Bakbakkar 378a 

Bakbuk 378" 

Bakbukiah 378" 

Bakemeats 378a 

cf  Bread 514b  (Eager) 

cf  Food  .  .  .1121b  (Eager) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Baking 

cf  Bread r>M>>  (Eager,) 

Baking  Pan 

cf  Bread f,l-lb  (Eager) 

cf  Pan 2237"  (Betteridge) 

Balaam 378b  (Baur) 

cf  Ep.  of  Jude 1770"  (Moorchcad) 

cf  Zimri 3149b  (Roberts) 

Balac 

cf  Balak 3791' 

Baladan 379'-  (R.  I).  Wilson) 

Balah 3791' 

Balak 379b 

cf  Balaam 37S'>  (Baur) 

Balamon 379b 

Balance 379>>  (Eager) 

cf  Scales 2701"  (Luering) 

cf  Weightsand Measurcs3079a  (Porter) 

Balancings 380b 

Balasamus 

cf  Baalsamus 3  17h 

Bald  Locust 

cf  Locust 1907b  (Day) 

Baldness 380b  (Kapp) 

cf  Hair 1320"  (Luering) 

cf  Shaving 275  lb  (Orr) 

Ball 3S1° 

cf  Games HGSb  (Smith) 

Balm 381"  (Macalister) 

Balm  of  Gilead 381"  (Masterman) 

cf  Gilcad 1230b  (Ewing) 

Balnuus 3<Sla 

Balsam 3Slb  (Macalister) 

cf  Balm 381"  (Macalister) 

cf  Myrrh 2102b  (Masterman) 

Baltasar 3Slb  (Breslich) 

Bamah 3Slb 

Bamoth,  Bamoth-Baal. .  381b 

cf  High  Place 1390"  (Easton) 

Ban 3S2" 

Banaias 3S2a 

Band 382"  (Rocs;  Nicol) 

Augustan  Band 3S2b;  3o8a  (Allen) 

Italian  Band 3S2b;  35Sb  (Allen) 

cf  Julius 17S()b 

Bands,  Beauty  and 421a 

Bands  of  Rudder 2(>24b 

Bani 3S2b  (Breslich) 

cf  Mani 1981b 

Banias  (person) 3S3a 

Banias  (place) 

cf  Caesarea  Philippi  .  .  53(>a  (Ewing) 

Banid  (Banias) 383" 

Banishment 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

Bank 3S3a  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Bank,  Banking 383a  (Eager) 

Allusions  and  interpre- 
tations  384" 

Among  Hebrews 383b 

Historical 383" 

In  XT  times..  .  .3S3b 


Bannaia  (Sabanneus). .  .  .2(i29b 

Bannas 384" 

Banneas 384a 

Banner 384a  (Eager) 

Bannus.  .  .  .384b 

Banquet 384b  (Eager) 

Ancient    Hebrew    cus- 
toms  38  4b 

Christ's    teaching    and 

practice 38f)a 

Marriage  feast 3S~>" 

cf  Meals,  Meal-time..  .2015"  (Eager) 

Banuas  (Bannas) 381" 

Baptism 

cf  Barnabas,  Ep.  of .  .  .  1902"  (Cowan) 

In  Didache 1899"  (Cowan) 

cf  Holy  Spirit 140G"  (Mullins) 

Influence  of  Greek  re- 
ligion on 1304b  (Fairbanks) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1(>35"  (Orr) 

cf  John  the  Baptist.  .  .17()9b       (Miller);        1710=' 
(Miller) 

cf  Sacraments 263(>a  (Lambert) 

cf  Seal 2709b  (Edwards) 

cf  Trine  Immersion.  .  .3011b  (Kurtz) 
Baptism    (Baptist   Inter- 
pretation)   3S.")b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Infant  baptism 388" 

Meaning 38">b 

Baptismal   regenera- 
tion  387b;    397a  (Orr;    Bishop; 

Dau) 

Didache 3S7b 

Greek  usage 38(ib 

NT  usage 38(>b 

Proselyte  baptism  . .  386a 

Terminology 38.">b 

Obligation 388b 

Baptism  (Lutheran  Doc- 
trine)   394a  (Dau) 

Difficulties 39(>a 

Baptism  for  the  dead  397a;  399a  (Rees) 
Baptism  of  John  . . .  .39fib 
Genuineness  of   rec- 
ords   396a 

Infant  baptism 39(ib 

Paul  and  baptism. .  .397" 
Use    of    formula    in 

NT  times 39d" 

Was  baptism  a  new 

ordinance 390" 

Ordinance 394h 

Biblical  history 39.Jb 

Scriptural  teaching.  .394'' 

Trinity  in  formula.  .395b 

Types  of  baptism   .  .39.~>b 

Origin  and  application .  394a 

Baptism     (Non-Immer- 

sionist  View) 388b  (T.  M.  Lindsay) 

Christian  baptism 389b 

Administration        of 
rite .  .  .  ,  389b 


3194 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Baptism  (Non-Immersionist  View) — continued 
Christian  bapt  'sm — continued 

Affusion 390" 

Aspersion 390b 

Baptism  for  dead.  .  .392";  3!)!)"  (Rees) 
Baptism  of  infants   .301'' 

Immersion 390" 

Who    may    perform 

baptism 391" 

Doctrine  of  baptism  .    393" 

Infant  baptism 393'1 

Formula  of  baptism. .  .392'' 

Pre-Christian  baptism  3X9" 

Baptism  of  John. .  .  . 3S9" 

Pagan  practice 3S9'1 

Proselyte  bapt  ism  .  .3X9" 

Scriptural  names 3X9" 

Baptism  for  1  lie  Dead.  .  .399"  (Rees);  397"  (Dau) 

Modern  views 3991' 

Patristic  evidence 399" 

Paul's  argument 399" 

Baptism  of  Fire 399>>  (Kapp 

cf  Fire 11121'  (W.  1..  Walker* 

Baptism     of     the     Holy 

Sj)irit 399'-  (Mullinsi 

Biblical  references    .  .  .399'' 

Finality 400b 

Relation  to  other  bap- 
tisms   10 11' 

Significance -100" 

OT  teachings.  .        .  .100" 
Viewpoint  of  ascend- 
ing Christ -1001' 

Viewpoint     of      dis- 
ciples  400b 

Baptism,  Infant 391b  (T.  M.  Lindsay; 

Baptismal  Regeneration  .397"  (Orr;  Bishop;  Dauj 

General  view 397"  (Orr) 

High-church  doctrine.  397h  (Bishop) 
Lutheran  doctrine .  .  .  .39X:1  (Dauj 
Baptist 

cf  John  the  Baptist  .  .  .  170S1'  (Miller) 

Bar -1011'  (llirsch) 

cf  Door X09"  (Downer) 

cf  Gate 117.">b  (Eastonj 

cf  House 143-11'  (A.  C.  Dickie- 

Bar  (prefix) .  .  .  .  ,401h;  433b  (Breslich) 

cf  Son,  Sons 2X20"  (Betteridge 

Barabbas 402"  (Rees) 

cf  Jesus  Christ,  Arrest  .  1073"  (Maclaren  i 

cf  Thief 2972"  (East on) 

Barachel 402b 

cf  Buz r>3.-)b  (Wolf) 


cf  Ram 


(Wolf; 


Barachiah 402h 

Barachias  (Barachiah)..  .402'' 

Barak 402b  (Cohon);   XI  1"  (Mar- 
go  1  is; 

cf  Bedan 423" 

Barbarian,  Barbarous.  .  .  4()2h  (Rees) 
Barber 403"  (Eager) 

cf  Hair 1320"  (Luering) 

cf  Razor  .  .  .  2533b 


Barclms 403h 

Bar-cochba 029"  (Orr) 

Barefoot 4()3'>  (Eager) 

Ancient  custom -10-4" 

Priest  son  duty 404" 

Barhumitc  (Baharumite)  37cS" 

Bariah l()4h 

Bar-Jesus 40  lb  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Magic 1903"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Bar-Jonah 10  I1-  (Edwards) 

Barkos 101'' 

Barley 10.")"    (Masterinan) ;    1 122" 

(Eager) 

cf  Jealousy l.">72b  (Forrester) 

cf  Weights  and   Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Barn 40.'>"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Agriculture 7~>h  (Patch) 

cf  ( larner 117~>b 

Barnabas 40.">b  (Jacol).s) 

In  Galatians 1101>>  (G.  G.  Findlay) 

cf  Joseph 1730b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Relations  with  Silas.    .2790"  (Kerr) 
Barnabas,  Epistle  of 

cf     Apocryphal     Epis- 
tles  I'M'1  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Literature,  Sub-apos  1901"  (Cowan) 
Barnabas,  Gospel  of 

cf  Apocryphal  ( lospels.  195"  (Hutchison) 

Barodis 40(i" 

Barrel 400"  (Eager) 

cf  House 1434''  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Pitcher 2401b 

Barren,  Barrenness 400"  (Rees) 

Ba rsabas,  Barsabbas 

cf  Joseph  Barsabbas  .  .  1740"  (Kerr) 

cf  Judas  Barsabbas.  .  .  170.")"  (S.  V.  Hunter) 
Bartacus 400b 

cf  Apame 100h 

cf  Illustrious 14491' 

Bartholomew 100'1  (Kerr) 

cf  Xathanael 2121"  (Kerr) 

Bartholomew,  Gospel  of 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels .  195"  (Hutchison) 

cf  Bartholomew 400b  (Kerr) 

Bartimaeus 100b  (Kees) 

Baruch.  .  .  .  .  .-107"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Jeremiah  1590"  (Orellij 

Baruch,  Apocalypse  of  .  .100''  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson); 
161b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

Analysis 107b 

Authorship 100b 

Date 10X" 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT.  .972"  (Orr) 

cf  Hope 1419b  (Easton) 

Language 107b 

Relation  to  2  Esdras.  .  10Xb 

Struct  lire 107b 

Baruch,  Book  of 407"  (T.  \Y .  Davies) 

Contents 407b 

Confession    and 
prayer 407b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3195 


Muruch,  Hook  ot—coitlinwd 

(.'onion  Is — continual 
Dependence  of    wis- 
dom   (OS- 

Historical    introduc- 
tion   1071' 

Praise  of  wisdom  .  .  .  K)S" 
Words    of    cheer    to 

Israel K)s'' 

Dates  of  authorship. .  .  K)'.'.1' 
Linguistic  analysis.  .  .  . -l()i):l 

Greek  section -400'' 

Hebrew  section 409" 

Versions 410" 

Arabic 4101' 

Latin 410" 

Syriac 410b 

Barzillai 41()h  (Rees) 

cf  Jaddua I"),")?1' 

cf  Zorzollous 315sb 

Basaloth 410>> 

Bascama 410b 

Base 41()b  (Rees) 

Basemath,     Bashcmath, 

Basniath 41 111  (Breslich] 

cf  Mahalath 19G5b  (Orr) 

Bashan 411a  (Ewing) 

cf  Gilead 1230"  (Ewing) 

cf  Hauran 1344"  (Ewing) 

cf  Og 21SOb  (Orr) 

Bashan-havvoth-jair   .  .  .  1345a  (Ewing) 
Bashan,  Mount  of 

cf  Hauran 1344"  (E\ving) 

Bashemath  (Basemath)..4H"  (Breslich) 

Basilisk 41  lb  (Day) 

cf  Adder 55"  (Day) 

cf  Cockatrice G72b  (Day) 

cf  Serpents 2730"  (Day) 

Basinie 365b  (Clay) 

Basin,  Bason 412"  (Eager) 

cf  Bowl 511b  (Eager) 

Basket 412b  (Eager) 

Basniath  (Basemath)..  .  .411"  (Breslich) 

Bason,  Basin 412"  (Eager) 

Bassai  (Bassa) 413b 

Bastai  (Basthai) 414" 

Bastard 413b  (Rees; 

Basthai 411" 

Bat 414"  (Day) 

Batanaea 414" 

Bath  (liquid  measure)  .  .  .414"  (Porter) 
cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Bath,  Bathing 414"  (Eager) 

Bathing  for  health.  .  .  .415" 
Ceremonial       purifica- 
tion   415" 

Greek  vs.  Semite  ideas .  4 1 5" 

cf  Absolution 24"  (Jacobs) 

Public  baths 414b 

Bath  Kol 415b  (Van  Pelt) 

cf  Sound  .  .  .2S3S"  (Easton) 


Balh-rabbim,  ( iat<>  of.  .  . 
Bat  hsheba 

cf  Adonijah 

cf  Aniniiel 

cf  Bathshua.  .  .  . 

cf  David 

cf  Eliam 

cf  Nathan 

cf  Solomon 

cf  Uriah,  Urijah 

Bathshua 

cf  Bathsheba 

cf  Shua,  Shuah 

Ba  th-zachari  as  (Beth 

zacharias) 

Battering  Ram 

cf  Siege  

Battle 

cf  War 

Battle-axe 

cf  Arms  (Offensive)  .  . 
Battle-bow 

cf  Archery 

cf  Armor 

Battlement 

cf  Fortification 

cf  House 

Bavvai  (Bavai) 

cf  Binnui 

Bay 

cf  Colors 

Bay 

Bayith 

cf  Beth 

Bay  Tree 

Bazlith,  Bazluth 

Bdellium 

Beach 

Beacon 

Bealiah    

Bealoth 

cf  Baalah 

Beam 

cf  Architecture 

cf  House 

Bean  (Baean) 

Beans 

Bear 

Bear,  The  (Arcturus). .  . 

cf  Astronomy 

Bear,  Born 

cf  Regeneration 

Bear,  Borne 

Beard 

Beast 

cf  Wild  Beast 

Beast  Fight 

cf  Games 

Beaten  Gold 

cf  Gold 

Beaten  Oil.  . 


1  hi'1  (E\ving) 
1H'>"  (Breshchj 
57"  (Meecher; 

1  17"  (Mack) 

791  )'•  (Weir) 

929" 

2120*  (Roberts). 

2S22"  (Weir; 

3()39b  (East  on ) 

416b 

41(1"  (Breslich) 

27X1" 


30<>9b  (Nicol) 

25 lb  (Nicol) 
41(ib  (Eager) 
233b  (Eager) 
251"  (Nicol) 

1136b  (Nicol) 
1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 
416b 

474b  (Wolf) 

675"  (Patch; 

410b 

416b 

441'' 

417" 

417" 

417"  (Orr) 

417" 

417" 

417" 

417" 

347"  (Masterman) 

417"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

234"  (A.  C.  Dickiej 

1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

377" 

417b  (Masterman) 

417b  (Day) 

417b 

313"  (Maunder) 

4  IS" 

2546b  (Nuelsen) 

41S"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

4 IS"  (Eager) 

41Sb  (Day; 

30S4"  (Day) 

ll()Sb  (Smith) 

1274"  (Patch) 
21  S3" 


3190 


GEXERAL  IXDEX 


Beating 

cf  Punishment. 2504''  (Hirsch) 

Beatitudes 419"  (Lambert) 

Comparison     of     Mat- 
thew and  Luke 419" 

<:f  Jesus  Christ 1G421'  (Orr) 

Number 4191' 

Origin  of  name 4  19" 

of       S  e  r  m  o  n       o  n 

Mount 2731"  (Miller" 

Beautiful  ('-ate 

cf  Temple 2930-  (Caldccott ;  Orr) 

Beauty 420"  (Caverno) 

Aesthetics  in  nature. .  .  121" 

Aesthetics  in  Scripture  420" 

Beaut}- and  Bands 421" 

Bebai 421" 

Because 421" 

Becher 421" 

cf  Bered 4:59'' 

Bec.horath  (Becoratli)  .  .  .421h 

Beck,  Beckon 421b 

Become 4211' 

Becorath 421b 

Bectileth 421h 

Bed,    Bedchamber,    Bed- 
stead  12 11'  (Eager) 

cf  Couch 7231'  (M.  <  >.  Evans) 

Early  forms 4211' 

XT  terms 4221' 

OT  terms 422" 

Bedad 423" 

B.Mian 423" 

Bedchamber 

cf  Bed 421b  (Eager) 

Bedeiah 423" 

cf  Pedias 229:," 

Bedstead 

cf  Bed 4211'  (Eager) 

Bee 423"  (Day) 

Beef 

cf  Cattle .r>S3b  (Day);    1 1231'  (  Eager) 

Beeliada 423h 

cf  Eliada 92X1' 

Beelsarus 423b 

Beeltethmus 423b 

cf  Rathumus 2.133" 

Reel/chub 423b  (Rees) 

cf  Baal 34(1''  (Saycc) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1G441'  (Orr) 

Beer 424" 

Beera 424" 

Beerah 424" 

Beer-elim 124" 

Beeri 424" 

Beer-lahai-roi 424a  (S.  V.  Hunter) 

Beeroth 424"  (Ewing) 

Beeroth  Bene-jaakan.  .  .424b 

cf   Wanderings  of 

Israel 30G4a  (Conder) 

Beerothite  (Beeroth).  .  .  .424"  (Ewing) 


Beersheba 424b  (Masterman) 

Locat  ion 424b 

Meaning  of  name 4241' 

Modern  Beersheba..  .  .4241' 

Sacred  shrine 424h 

cf  Shibah 27G71' 

Beeshterah  (Aslitaroth)  .270"  (Ewing) 
Beetle 425"  (Day) 

cf  Locust   1907"  (Day) 

Beeves 

cf  Cattle f)X3b  (Day) 

Before 42.")" 

Beg,  Beggar,  Begging.  .  .  42">"  (Eager) 

Begging  denounced   in 
Jewish  literal  ure  .  .  .42.")'' 

Begging  in  Israel 42")" 

In  gospel  age 42ob 

Modern  practice 420" 

Professional  beggars..  .42")'" 

Beggarly 42G"  (Kapp) 

Begin 42G"  (Jacobs) 

Beginning 420"  (Kapp) 

cf  Eternity 1011"  (J.  Lindsay) 

cf  Time- 29S11'  (Porter; 

Begotten 42C)1'  (Rees) 

cf  First  l)egotten 1113"  (Rees) 

cf  Only  begotten 219G"  (Rees) 

Beguile 42Gb  (Kapp) 

cf  Deceive S1G"  (Farr) 

cf  Delusion X2G"  (Edwards) 

Behalf 42Gh  (Jacobs) 

Behavior 42G1'  (Pratt) 

Beheading 

cf  Punishments 2~>04h  (Hirsch) 

Behemoth 427"  (Day) 

Beholding 427"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Behoove 427b 

Beirut  (Berytus) 44()b  (Porter) 

cf  Sidon 27SG"  (Porter) 

Beka 427b 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  307!)"  (Porter) 

Bel  (Baal) 427b 

cf  Babylonia,  Religion 

of 3GSb  (Rogers) 

Bel  and  the  Dragon 427b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Author,  place,  date.  .  .  430b 

Canonicity       and    au- 
thenticity  431" 

cf  Daniel,  Book  of .  .  .  .7S7b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Name 42S" 

Original  language 429b 

cf    Song    of    Three 

Children 2X34"  (l\  W.  Davies) 

Story  of  Bel 42S" 

Story  of  Dragon 42S'J 

cf     Susanna,     History 

of 2S72b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Teaching 4301' 

Textual   authorities..  .429" 
Bela 

cf  Zoar  .  .  .3154"  (Wright) 


GEXKHAL  INDEX 


3197 


Bola,  Belah 131b  (Broslichj 

Belaitos 13  lb 

Belch -43 11'  (Kapp) 

Bolemus 43  lb 

Belial 13  lb  (Orr) 

cf  Antichrist 154"  (J.  E.  11.  Thomson) 

cf  Man  of  Sin 1970"  (Orr) 

Belie 432" 

Belief 

cf  Faith 10S71'  (Dunelni) 

Believers 432:l  (Itoes) 

Bell 432"  (Miller) 

Bellows 432" 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Refiner,  Refining.  .  .2545"  (Patch) 

Belly 432''  (Hirsch) 

Behnaini 4321' 

Behnen,     Belinon     (Bel- 
maim)  432b 

Belomancy 

cf  Augury 331"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Beloved 4321'  (Pratt) 

Belshazzar 433"  (11.  D.  Wilson) 

And  Dani(>l 7X3"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Persians 2330-  (Tisdall) 

Belt 

cf  Armor 254"  (Xicol) 

Belteshazzar    433b 

Belus,  Temple  of 

cf  Babel 350"  (Pinches) 

Bon  (name) 434" 

Ben  (prefix) 433b  (Breslich) 

cf  Son,  Sons 2S2G:l  (Betteridgo) 

Ben-abinadab 434a 

cf  Abinadab 12"  (Bcccher) 

Benaiah 434"  (Broslich) 

cf  Mamdai 19721' 

cf  Naidus 2111" 

Ben  Amini 434h  (Cohon) 

Bench 434b  (Eager) 

cf  Seat 2710b  (Cotton) 

Ben-deker 434b 

Beneath 434b 

Bene-berak 4341' 

Benediction 434b  (Knpj)) 

Apostolic  benediction  .43')" 

cf  Blessing 487b  (Gray) 

Family  practice 435" 

Privilege  of  Aaronil.es  .435" 

cf  Salutation 2GG5"  (Pollard) 

Benefactor 435b  (Jacobs) 

Benefit 435b  (Hirsch) 

Bene-jaakan 

cf     Beeroth     Bene- 
jaakan  424b 

Benevolence 435h 

Ben-geber 435b 

cf  Geber 11S()'>  (Downer) 

Benhadad 435b  (Nicol);    779h  (C.  II. 

Thomson) 

Bonhaclad  I .  .  .  .43Ga 


P>enhadad — cunli  niiril 
Benhadad  1 — ronlin  u«l 
Shortsightedness     of 

Asa 43G" 

Syria  founded 43(i" 

Syria  and  Judali. .  .  .430" 
cf    Hadade/er  (llad- 

arezer) 1314"  (Xicol; 

cf  Tabrimmon 2(.)()2" 

Benhadad  11 430" 

Alliance  with  Ahab  .437" 
Alliance  broken  o(T.  .437" 

And  Klisha 437" 

Expeditiona    against 

Israel 43(ib 

Monumental  records 437" 
Murder      of       Ben- 
hadad  4371' 

Siege  of  Samaria. .  .  .437" 

Benhadad  III 437b 

Assyrians    overcome 

Syria 437b 

Contemporaries.  .  .  .437'' 
R  e  c  u  p  e  r  a  t  i  o  n  of 

Israel 437b 

B(>n-hail 43S" 

Ben-hanan 438" 

Ben-hesed 438" 

Ben-hur 438" 

Beninu 438" 

Ben-jaakan     (Bene- 
jaakan)  424b 

Benjamin 438"  (Ewing) 

The  patriarch 438" 

Tribe 438" 

History 438b 

Number 438" 

Position 438b 

Territory 438b 

Benjamin,  Gate  of 

cf  Jerusalem 1G03" 

Benjamite 439" 

Bono 439" 

Ben-oni 439" 

Benzoheth 439" 

cf  Zoheth 3155a 

Boon 

cf  Baal-meon 347b  (Ewing) 

Beor 439" 

Bora 439" 

Beracah  (person) 439" 

Beraeah  (valley.) 439"  (Mastennan) 

cf    Jehoshaphat,    Val- 
ley of 1583"  (Masterman) 

Berachiah  (Berechiah). .  .439'' 

Beraiah 439" 

Berea  (Beroea) 440"  (Ewing) 

Bereave,  Bereavor,  Bereft439"  (Breslich) 

Berechiah 439" 

cf  Zachariah 3129" 

Bered  (person) 439";  421" 

Bored  (place) 4391'  (Masterman) 


3198 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Berenice  ( Berniee) 

Ben 

Beri;ih,  Beriites 

Berites 

Berith  ( Baal-bent  h )  .  .  .  . 

Berniee 

Berodach-Baladan 

cf  Baladan 

Beroea 

Beroth  (Beeroth) 

Berothah 

cf  Ilethlon 

cf  Zobali 

Berothite  (Boerothite). .  . 

Berries 

Beryl 

cf  Slimes,  Precious. .  .  . 

Beryt  us 

Berzelus  (Z.>rzelleus) 

Besai 

Beset 

Beside 

Besiege 

cf  Siege 

Besodeiah 

Besom 

Besor,  The  Brook 

Best 

Bestead 

Bestiality 

Bestow 

Betah 

cf  Tibhath 

Betane 

Bet  en.  .  . 
Beth 

cf  Alphabet    . 

cf  Bayith 

Beth  (prefix).  .  , 
Bethabara 

cf  Bethany 

Beth-anath 

Beth-anoth 

Bethany 

Beth-arabah 

cf  Bcthabara 

Betharam  (Bcth-haram) 
Beth-arbel 

cf  Arbcla 

cf  Shahnan 

Bethasmoth 

cf  Azinaveth 

Beth-aven 

Beth-azmaveth    ( Azma 

veth) 

Beth-baal-mec::)     (Baal 

meon) 

Beth-barah 

cf  Bethabara, 

Bet  hbasi 

Beth-biri  .  . 


440-  (Dosker) 

439b 

439b 

440- 

347a 

440-  (Dosker) 

37t)h  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

440-  (living) 
424-  (Ewing) 

4401'  (C.  II.  Thomson) 
13841'  (Christie) 
3l.r)41'  (Christie) 
424-  (Ewing) 
440b 

28f>0-  (Flelcher) 
4401'  (Porter; 
3158b 
!  11- 

441-  (Kappi 
441-  (Kapp, 

27S(i-  (Nicol) 

441- 

111' 

441- 

44 lh  (Pratt) 

44 11' 

74(1-  (Hirsch) 

441b 

29SO-  (Christie) 

44 11' 

Ml1' 

1111' 

103b  (Richardson) 
,416b 

441b  (Hirsch) 
,442-  (S.  V.  Hunter) 

4421'  (Masterman) 

442b 
.  442b 

.442''  (Mastennan) 
.443a 

,442-  (S.  F.  Hunter) 
.440-  (Ewing) 
.443a  (Ewing) 
.225b  (living-) 
.  2747ij  (Eiselen) 
.443* 
.345a 
.443" 


.347b  (Ewing) 
.443-  (S.  F.  Hunter) 
.442°  (S.  V.  Hunter) 
.443b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 
,443b 


Beth-ear 443b  (Mastennan) 

cf  Beth-hacchereMi. .  .  .  44">b  (Mastennan) 

Beth-dagon 4431'  (living) 

Belh-diblafhaim 443b 

cf  Moabite  Stone 2071b  (Sayce) 

Beth-eden 

cf  Eden 897b  (Wright) 

Bethel 443b  (living) 

cf  Almond 100-  (Mastennan) 

History 441- 

cf  House  of  (rod 143S-  (Orr) 

Name  and  local  ion. .  .  .  443b 

Sanctuary 444- 

lietlielite 444b 

cf Hid  ....  ... .13X9-  (Stearns) 

Bethel,  Mount 444b 

Beth-emek 444b 

Bether 444b  (Orr) 

cf  Malobal  liron 1972b 

Ik'thesda 444b  (Mastennan) 

cf  Gihon 122Sb  (Mastennai; ) 

cf  Jerusalem ir>97h  (Mastennan  >;  l(')OSb 

(Mastennan) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 164 lb  (Orr) 

cf  Slice])  ( late 27oS- 

cf  Sheep  Market    27.')S- 

Beth-e/el   .  44ob 

cf  A/.el 3441' 

Bcth-gader 44.','' 

B(>th-gamul 445b 

Beth-gilgal 445b 

cf  C.allim llt)7b  (Mastennan) 

Beth-haccherem 445b  (Mastennan) 

cf  Beth-car.  .                .  .443''  (Mastennan) 
Belh-haggan 44;">b 

cf  Garden-house 1175- 

Bet  h-lianan,      Elon-bet  h- 

hanan 

cf  Elon 939a 

Beth-haram 44(i-  (Ewing) 

Beth-liaran 440- 

licth-hoglah 440-  (Wright) 

cf  Dead  Sea 801a  (Wright) 

Bcth-horon 44(i-  (Mastennan) 

Ancient     and     modern 
towns 440- 

cf  Jashar,  Book  of.  ...  l.">70-  (Orr) 

cf  Judah  ,  Territ  ory 

of 1703-  (Masterman) 

Pass    of    the    lieth- 

liorons 440b 

Beth-horon,  Battle  of.  .  .  4401'  (Maunder.; 

Ast  ronomical  relat  ions  448a 

Moon  stayed 448a 

Sun  was  silent 448a 

Book  of  Jashar 448- 

Chronicle     and     poem 
compared 448b 

Date  of  events 449a 

Jehovah      fought      for 
Israel..  .  .448b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3199 


Beth-horon,  Battle  of — continued 
Joshua  and  the  Hivites  446b 

Joshua's  strategy 447a 

Bethink 449a 

Beth-jeshimoth I49b  (Ewing) 

Beih-le-'aphrah 449b  (Porter) 

Bcth-lchaoth 449b 

cf  Beth-biri 443b 

cf  Lebaoth 1864° 

Bethlehem 449b  (Masterman) 

Bethlehem  Judah 449b 

Christian  era 450a 

David    the    Bethle- 

hemite 4,r)0a 

Early  history 449b 

cf  Ephrath 9G4a  (Masterman) 

Later  Bible  history  .  450a 
Bethlehem  of  Zebulun  450a 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1632b  (Orr) 

cf  Joseph,  Husband  of 

Mary 1741='  (Kerr) 

Bethlehem,  Star  of 

of  Jesus  Christ 1033a  (Orr) 

cf  Star  of  the  Magi .  .  .  2848a  (Maunder) 

Bethlehemite 450b 

Beth-lomon 450b 

Beth-maacah  (Abel- 

beth-rnaacah) 5b  (Beecher) 

Beth-marcaboth 450b  (Masterman) 

Beth-meon 450b 

Beth-merhak 450b 

Beth-milcah  (Milcah) .  .  .2051a 

Beth-millo  (Millo) 2055a  (Masterman) 

Beth-nimrah 450b  (Wright) 

cf  Leopard 18GGb  (Day) 

cf  Nimrah 2147a  (Ewing) 

Beth-palet  (Beth-pclet) .  .450b 

Beth-pazzez 450b 

Beth-pelet 450b 

Beth-peor 451°  (Ewing) 

Bethphagc 451a  (Masterman) 

cf  Olives,  Mount  of.  .  .2185b  (Masterman) 
Beth-phelet  (Beth-pelet)  450b 

Beth-rapha 451a 

Beth-rehob 451b  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

Bethsaida 451b  (Ewing) 

Of  Galilee 451b 

Julias 452a 

Were  there  two  ? 452a 

Bethsamos  (Bethasmoth)443a 
Beth-shean,  Beth-shan .  .  452b  (Ewing) 

Beth-shemesh 453a  (Kyle) 

In  Egypt 453b 

cf  Ir-shemesh 1493a 

Of  Issachar 453a 

Of  Judah 453a 

Of  Naphtali 453b 

cf  Sun-worship 2870b  (Orr) 

Beth-shemite 453b 

Beth-shittah 453b 

Bethsura,  Bethsuron ....  453b 


Beth-tappuah  .  .  .  r^1'  (Mastermanj 

Hethuel  (person) .  .         .  .  4")3b  (Hirsch) 

Bethuel  (place) 4.>la 

Bethul 

cf  Bethuel 4.>ri 

cf  Chesil GOo" 

Bethulia 4o4:i  (Ewing) 

Beth-zacharias 454a 

Beth-zur 454a  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 1613b  (Masterman) 

cf  Judah,  Territory  of 1763a  (Masterman) 

Betimes 454a  (Kinsella) 

cf  Morning 20821'  (Porter) 

Betolion 4541' 

Betomesthaim,  Betomas- 

thaim 454b 

Betonim 454b 

Betray 454b  (Rees) 

Betrayers 454b 

Betroth 4541' 

Betrothal 

cf  Marriage 1997b  (Eager) 

Between  the  Testaments .  455a  (Dosker) 
Contemporaneous   his- 
tory   455a 

Asia 455b 

Egypt 455a 

Greece 455b 

Rome 45.r>b 

Historical  develop- 
ments   455b 

Alexandrian  period. 45Ga 
Egyptian  period ....  45Gb 
Maccabean  period .  .  457a 

Persian  period 456a 

Roman  period 457a 

Syrian  period 456b 

Internal  developments. 457a 
Literary  activity..  .  .457b 

Parties 458a 

Preparation      for 

Christianity 458b 

Spiritual  conditions .  458a 
cf    Maccabaeus,    Mac- 
cabees   194Ga  (Hutchison) 

Period  in  general 455a 

Beulah 458b 

Bewail 458b 

cf  Grief 1305b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Bewitch 458b  (Kapp) 

cf  Divination 860a  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Evil  Eye 1042b  (Luering) 

cf  Magic 19G3a  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Superstition 2871a  (Doolan) 

Bewray,  Bewrayer 459a  (Kinsella) 

Beyond 459a  (Hirsch) 

Bezaanannim      (Zaanan- 

nim) 3128"  (Ewing) 

Bezai 459b 

Bezalel 459b  (Farr) 

cf  Sesthel 2743a 

Bezek .  .  . . 459b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Bezer 459'' 

cf    Refuge,   Cities    of .  2545b  (Ewing) 

Bc/eth 4591' 

cf  Jerusalem 15951'  (Masterman) 

Be/.etha 4591' 

cf  Jerusalem 1GOO'1  (Masterman) 

Biatas i:>9b 

cf  Phalias 2358b 

Bible,  Tlu> 459>>  (<>'T) 

Authorized  and  Revised 

Versions -Hi1.)" 

cf  American  Revised 

Version Ill)"  (East on) 

Compass  and  divisions  401 " 

Apocrypha 402" 

Hebrew    OT  — Jo- 

sephus 401" 

XT 40-J1' 

cf  Canon  of  XT.  .SO:*"  (Riggs) 

Septuagint 4('»lh 

Vulgate 402" 

cf  Vulgate 30f)Sh  (Angus) 

cf  Gospels,  Synoptic.  .  12S1!>  (Iverach) 

Languages 4GOb 

Of  XT 40()h 

Of  OT 4i>()>' 

Literary  origin  of  NT.  465b 

Canonicity 407b 

cf  Canon  of  XT.  .50:}"  (Riggs) 

Epistles 400" 

cf  Captivity  Ep..  .400b  (Orr) 
cf  Catholic  Ep. .  .  .407"  (Orr) 
cf  Pastoral  Ep. .  .  .2258b  (Itutherfurd) 
Gospels  and  Acts.  .  .405b 

Prophecy 407" 

cf    Apocalyptic 

Literature 101b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Literary   origin  of   OT 
Age    of    David    and 

Solomon 403" 

Canonicity 402b 

cf  Canon  of  OT.  .554"  (Robinson) 

Daniel 404" 

Exilian     and      post- 
exilian  periods. .  .  .404" 
Josiah's  reformation  404" 

Judges 403" 

Mosaic  age 403" 

Newer  criticism  .  .  .  .404" 

Patriarchal  age 403" 

Prophecy 4G3b 

Wisdom  literature.  .403b 

Names 400" 

Bible 400" 

XT 40()b 

OT 4GO'> 

Other  designations.  .4GOb 

cf  Revised  Versions. 951b  (Hutchison) 

Authorized 950b 

English 945b 

cf  Scripture 270Ga 


Bible,  The — continued 
Unity     and     spiritual 
purpose — inspirat  ion4G7b 
1 1  ist  orical  influence .  40Sb 
cf  Versions,  Geor- 
gian,       Gothic, 

Slavonic 3048"  (East on) 

Inspirat  ion 408" 

cf  Inspiration  ....  1473"  (Warfield) 
Purpose  of  grace. .  . .408" 

Unity 407b 

Bible,  Criticism  of 748b  (Orr) 

Bible,  The  Geneva 949b  (Hutchison) 

Bible,  The  Great 949"  (Hutchison) 

Biblical  Discrepancies.  .  .  S52b  (Van  Pelt) 

Biblical  Mythology 231"  (Kyle) 

Biblical  Theology 409b  (J.  Lindsay) 

Divisions 471b 

Divergent   views   on 

OT 471b 

Law  and  prophecy. .  472" 
Mosaism,  place  of  .  .472" 
Prophet  ism  and  Ju- 
daism   472" 

Religious      develop- 
ment of  Israel  .  .  . 472" 

History 470" 

Effect  of  criticism..  .471b 
XT    theology,    19th 

century 470b 

OT  theology  in  later 

centuries 47O 

Patristic    and    scho- 
lastic periods 470a 

Scientific       develop- 
ment  47O 

Science 409b 

Place  and  methods. .  470" 
Relation   to    dog- 
matics  469b 

Bichri...  .  .  .  .472'- 

Bid 472" 

Bidden 472b 

Bide 472>> 

Bidkar 472b 

Bier 472'' (Eager) 

Bigtha 473" 

Bigthan,  Bigt liana 473a 

Bigvai 473" 

Bikath-aven 473" 

cf  Avon 340" 

cf  Eden 897b  (Wright) 

Bildad 473b  (Genung) 

cf  Shua,  Shuah 2781" 

cf  Shuhite 2781b 

cf  Zophar 315Gb  (Genung) 

Bileam 473b 

cf  Ibleam 144G"  (Ewing) 

Bilgah,  Bilgai 473b 

Bilhah  (person) 474a 

Bilhah  (place) 474" 

Bilhan..  474* 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Bill,  Bond 474"  (Eager) 

Bill  of  Divorcement 

cf  Divorce  in  OT  .       .  .863''  (\Y.  \Y.  Daviesj 

Billow 46  lb 

Bilshan 47  I1'  (\Volf) 

Bimhal 17  I1' 

Bind,  Bound 1741'  (Kapp) 

cf  Authority 333"  (Kees) 

cf  Forgiveness 1 132b  (Morro) 

cf  Peter,  Simon  .  .       .  .2348b  (Gray; 

Binea 474h 

Binnui 4741'  (Wolf) 

Bird-catcher 

cf  Fowler 1143;i  (Strait on-Port er> 

Birds 475"  (Stral  ton-Porter 

cf  Abomination,   Birds 

of 16"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Of  Bible 470" 

Early  mention 47(3" 

Sacrifice 47(3'" 

Meaning;  of  word 475" 

Natural  history 47")" 

Earliest  traces 175" 

Food,  blood,  etc.  .  .  .476" 

Structure 475" 

Of  prey 477"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Unclean 16b  (Stratton-Porter) ;  477b 

(Reeve) 

Birsha 4771' 

Birth 477b  (Eager) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1632b  (Orr) 

cf  Travail 3007"  (Macalister) 

cf  Virgin-birth 3052"  (Sweet) 

Birth,  New 

cf  Regeneration 2546b  (Nuelsen) 

Birth,  Virgin 3052"  (Sweet) 

Birthday 478"  (Eager) 

cf  Calendar 541b  (Porter) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1(332"  (Orr) 

Birthright 478"  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Family l()94h  (Cavern. . 

cf  First-born 1113b  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Heir 1369"  (Easton) 

cf  Inheritance 14(38h  (Hirscli) 

cf  Isaac 1494"  (Boyd) 

cf  Patrimony 2264a  (Mack) 

cf  Primogeniture 2452b  (N.  Isaacs) 

Birth-stool 478b 

cf  Stool 28(32b  (Cotton) 

Birzaith 478h 

Bishlarn 478b 

Bishop  (general) 478b  (Dosker) 

Later  developments   .  .479" 

cf  Ministry 2059b  (T.  M.  Lindsay) 

cf  Overseer 2205b 

cf  Presbyter 24371'  (Mack) 

Use  in  NT 479" 

Use  in  Septuagint  and 

classic  Greek 4781' 

Bishop  (Anglican  view)..479b  (Lowndes) 
Bishops  and  deacons.  .481b 
Bishops  and  presbyters  481b 


Bishop  (Anglican  view) — continual. 

Clement  of  Rome 4X1" 

Didache 481" 

Early  church  officers.  .179'' 
Apostles.  .  .  ...  179'' 

Bishops 480" 

Deacons ISO1- 

Elders  or  presbyters  180" 

Evangelists 480" 

Prophets  .  .479b 

Teachers 480" 

Episcopacy,    definit  ion 

of 479b 

Of  NT 4S()b 

Ignatian  Ep 4Slb 

Reformation 481b 

Bishop      (Congregat  ional 

view) 482b  (Pratt) 

Election 482" 

NT  church 482" 

Restoration    of    primi- 
tive ideals 482b 

Bishopriok 4S2b;  47Sb  (Dosker) 

Bishops'  Bible 

cf  English  Versions  .  .  .  9i5b  (Hutchison) 
Bismaya 

cf  Shinar 2771b  (Pinches) 

Bit  and  Bridle 482b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Bithiah 483"  (Hirsch) 

cf  Mered 203(5*  (Wallace) 

Bithron 483" 

;    Bithynia 483"  (White) 

cf  Haven 1344b  (Day) 

cf  Pont  us 2418"  (White) 

Bithynian     Immigrations 

to  Asia  Minor 274b  (Calder) 

Bitter,  Bitterness 483b  (Hirsch) 

Bitter  Herbs 484"  (Masterman) 

cf  Herb 1375a  (Masterman) 

Bittern 484"  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Hedgehog 1367" 

cf  Porcupine; 2421b  (Day) 

cf  Serpent 2738"  (Day) 

Bitterness 483b  (Hirsch) 

Bitterness,  Water  of 

cf  Adultery 63"  (Margolis) 

Bitter  Water 

cf  Adultery (53"  (Margolis) 

cf  Marah 1984b 

Bitumen 

cf  Mortar 2083"  (Orr) 

cf  Slime 281 7b  (Day) 

Biziothiah 485" 

Bi/tha 485" 

Black 

cf  Colors 674b  (Patch) 

Blackness 485"  (Pratt  ) 

Black  Obelisk 

cf  Jehu 1586"  (Caldecott) 

Blains 485b  (Macalister) 

Blasphemy 485b  (Rees) 

cf  Forgiveness 1132b  (Morro) 


3202 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Blasphemy — continued 

cf  Holy  Spirit 1406"  (Mullins) 

cf  Josus  Christ 1644b 

Unpardonable  sin 485b 

Blast  .  .                              ...  18(>"  (M.  O.  Evans i 
Blast,  Blasting 486"  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 77"  (Patch) 

cf  Mildew 2051b  (Masterman) 

Blast  us 486b  (S.  F.  Hunter  i 

Blaze 486h 

Blemish 48(>b  (Luering) 

cf  Spot,  Spotted 284(>b  (Macalister) 

Bless 48?'  (Gray) 

cf  Benediction 434b  (Kapp) 

Blessed 487"  (Gray) 

cf  Beatitudes 419"  (Lambert) 

Blessedness 487a  (Gray) 

Blessing 4S7b  (Gray) 

cf  Heredity 1376"  (Easton) 

cf  Priests  and  Levit.es  2452b  (Wiener) 
Blessing,  Cup  of 487b 

cf  Cup 766"  (Jacobs) 

Blessing,  Valley  of 

cf  Beracah 439"  (Masterman) 

Blindfold 487b 

Blinding 

c,f  Punishments 2f)()4b  (Hirsch) 

Blindness 4S7b  (Macalister) 

cf  Tender 2947"  (Easton) 

Blindness,  Judicial 488"  (T.  Lewis) 

Blood 488b  (Clippinger) 

Hebrew   and   OT   cus- 
toms   4S9a 

cf  Circumcision  .  .  .  .  65(>b  (T.  Lewis) 
cf  Purity 2507b  (Caverno) 

NT  teachings 489" 

cf  Atonement G27b  (Orr) 

Primitive  ideas 488b 

c  f    R  c  v  e  n  g  e  ,    R  e  - 

venger 2587*  (Breslich) 

cf  Wine 3086"  (Easton) 

Blood  and  Water 4S9a  (Luering) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 16G3b  (Orr) 

Physiological        expla- 
nation   489b 

Blood,  Avenger  of 

cf  Avenger 340"  (Breslich) 

Bloodguiltiness 490" 

Blood,  Issue  of 

cf  Bloody  Flux 490b  (Macalister) 

Blood  Revenge 

cf  Avenger 340a  (Breslich) 

Bloodshedding 490a 

Bloodthirsty 490a 

Bloody 490a  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Bloody  Flux 490b  (Macalister) 

Bloody  Sweat 490b  (Macalister) 

Bloom,  Blossom 

cf  Flowers.  .  .  .  1120b  (Masterman) 


Blot -190b  (Kaiser) 

cf  Book  of  Life   f>03n  (Kaiser) 

cf    Book    of    Remem- 
brance   ">03b 

cf  Forgiveness 1 132b  (Morro) 

Blow 490b  (Hirsch) 

Blue 

cf  Colors G74b  (Patch) 

Boanerges 491a  (Kerr) 

cf  James,  Son  of  Zebe- 

dee 1560a  (Kerr) 

Boar 491a  (Day) 

cf  Swine 2S7f)b  (Day) 

Board 491"  (Hirsch) 

Boast 491" 

Boat 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  .2774a  (Nicol) 
Boaz 491"  (Roberts) 

And  Jachin 1547b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Jesse 1023a  (Roberts) 

cf  Temple 2932*  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Boccas 491b 

Bocheru 491b 

Bochim 491b 

Body 491b       (Hirsch;      Marais; 

Pratt) 

Figurative 493a  (Pratt) 

General 492a  (Marais) 

Body  and  sin 492b 

First  sin 492b 

NT  references 492" 

OT  references 492" 

Other  meanings ....  492a 

cf  Member 2030a  (Luering) 

Philological 491b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Resurrection 2562"  (Easton) 

cf  Spiritual  Body 2843" 

Body  of  Death 493a  (Dosker) 

Bodyguard 493a 

Body  of  Heaven 493b 

Body,  Spiritual 493b  (Morro) 

cf  Psychology 2494b  (Marais) 

Bohan 494* 

Boil  (noun) 494"  (Macalister) 

cf  Plagues  of  Egypt .  .  .  2405"  (Kyle) 

Boil  (verb) 494"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Boldness 494b  (Kapp) 

Boiled 494b 

Bolster 494b  (Eager) 

Bolt 494b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Bond 

cf  Band 382a  (Nicol;  Rees) 

cf  Bill,  Bond 474a  (Eager) 

cf  Chain 589a  (Fortune) 

Bondage 494b  (McGlothlin) 

cf  Slavery 2815"  (Raffety) 

Bondmaid 495"  (McGlothlin) 

cf  Slavery 2815a  (Raffety) 

Bondman 495a  (McGlothlin) 

Bondservant 495" 

Bone,  Bones 495b  (Luering) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Bonnet 

cf  Dress 

cf  Mitre 

Book 

Book  collections 

Definitions 

Early  history  in  Bibli 

lands 

Higher  criticism 

Inward  books 

cf  Libraries 

Literary  criticism 

Manuscripts 

Diplomatics 

Epigraphy .  . 

cf  Alphabet 

cf  Table 

cf  Weight 

cf  Writing 

Numismatics 

cf  Money 

Oral  transmission 

Part  played  in  OT .  . 

Vedas 

Origin  of  new  forms .  .  . 

Paleography 

cf  Print 

Printed  books 

Publication 

Mechanical  copies  .  . 
Personal  copies  .... 

Survival 

Textual  criticisms 

cf  Text  of  NT 

cf  Text  of  OT 

Variations 

cf  Writing 

Book  of  Abraham 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture  

Book  of  Covenant 

cf  Law  in  OT 

cf  Moses 

Book  of  the  Dead 

cf  Libraries 

Book  of  Enoch 

Book  of  Jubilees 

cf  Apocalyptic   Litera- 
ture  

cf  Apocrypha 

Book  of  Lamentations 
cf  Languages  of  OT .  .  . 

Book  of  Life 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture   

Book  of  Noali 

cf  Apocalyptic   Litera- 
ture  

Book  of  Ob 

cf  Judah,  Kingdom  of 
Book  of  Remembrance . 


495b 

875b  (Eager) 
2()67b  (T.  Lewis) 
49.r)b  (Richardson) 
502b 
496" 

503a 
500b 

496b 

1882"  (Richardson) 

500b 

498a;  19S4a  (Richardson) 

498b 

498b 

103h  (Richardson) 

2898a  (Easton) 

3079a  (Porter) 

3114"  (Richardson) 

498b 

2076"  (Porter) 

497b 

498a 

497b 

501" 

498b 

2455a  (Richardson) 

499a 

496b 

497" 

497b 

501b 

500a 

2950b  (Sitterly) 

2957b  (Weir) 

499b 

3114a  (Richardson) 


161b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

1852*  (Rule) 
209()a  (Kyle) 

1882b  (Richardson) 
164b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson; 


l(H)b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 
178b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

1836"  (Weir) 

503"  (Kaiser);  4901' 

l(ilb  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 


1(ilb  (J.  !•;.  II.  Thomson) 

17t')2b  (Weir) 
503b 


(J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

(T.  Lewis) 


Books  of  Adam .r)4a  (M.  O.  Evans);    177" 

(.I.E.  II. Thomson);  178'' 
(T.  W.  Davies) 
cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture  161b 

Boot 503b 

Booth 503b 

Booths,  Feast  of 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .  1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Booty 503>>  (W.  L.  Walker j 

cf  Prey 2439"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Booz f)03b 

Bor-ashan 503b 

Border,  Borders 503b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Hem 1374a  (Eager) 

cf  Quarter 2513" 

Borderer 504a 

Bore 504"  (T.  Lewis) 

Borez 

cf  Michmash 2048»  (Ewing) 

Borith 504" 

Born 418a 

Born  Again 

cf  Regeneration 2546b  (Nuelsen) 

Borne 418a 

Borrowing 504"  (Eager) 

Boscath  (Bozkath) 512b 

Bosom 504b  (Hirsch) 

Bosom,  Abraham's 22b  (Orr) 

Bosor 504b 

Bosora 504b  (Ewing) 

Boss 505a 

Botany 505"  (Masterman) 

Fertility  and  climate  in 
modern  and  ancient 

Palestine 505b 

Decrease  in  rainfall .  506tt 
Destruction    of    for- 
ests   506a 

Vegetation  of   Bibli- 
cal times 506b 

cf  Flowers 1120b  (Masterman) 

cf  Forest 1132a  (Masterman) 

cf  Judah,  Territory  of. .  1764a  (Masterman) 

cf  Myrrh 2102b  (Masterman) 

Palestinian  flora 505* 

General      character- 
istics  505a 

Modern  plants 505a 

Plant    zone    in     Holy 

Land 507a 

Jordan  valley 508b 

Lebanon    and    Anti- 
Lebanon  flora .... 509b 
Plains     and     moun- 
tains   507" 

Steppe    or    desert 

zones 509" 

cf  Thorns,  Thistles  .  .  .2974a  (Masterman) 
Botch 

cf  Boil 494"  (Macalistrr) 

Botrys 5()9b 


3204 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Bottle 5()9h  (Eager) 

cf  Pitcher 2401b 

cf  Tears 2923b  (Maealister) 

cf  Vessel 304!)"  (East on) 

Bottom 510>>  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Bottomless oil'1 

Bough 

cf  Branch 513b  (Mastcrrnan) 

Bought   (of  a  sling) oil" 

Bought oil" 

cf  Buying 533"  (Eager) 

Bound 

cf  Bind 474b  (Kapp) 

Bounds f)lla 

Bountifulness,  Bounty.,  .oil"  (Kaiser) 
Bow 

cf  Archery  .  .  .  233h  (Eager) 

Bow  and  Arrows 252"  (Nicol) 

Bow,  Bowing 

cf  Adoration  ..  ..00"  (Edwards);    3301'  (W. 

W.  Davies) 
Bow  in  the  Cloud oil" 

cf  Astronomy 300h  (Maunder) 

Bowels oil"  (Luering) 

Bowing oil1' 

Bowl 51  lb  (Eager) 

cf  Pommel 24 IS" 

Bowman 512"  (Eager) 

cf  Archery 233b  (Eager) 

Bowshot 512" 

Box    .  .  .  .  512" 

Boxing 

cf  Games 110Xb  (Smith) 

Box-tree 512"  (Masterman) 

Boy 512b  (Kapp) 

cf  Child OOO1'  (Steams' 

cf  Family 1094b  (Cavern. » 

cf  Son 2S20"  (Betteridge) 

Bo/cath  (Bo/kath.i  .       .  .  5l2b 

Bozez 5121'  (Ewing) 

cf  Seneh 2720"  (Ewing; 

Bozkath.  .  .  512b 

Bo/rah 512b  (Ewing ' 

cf  Sela 2713b  (Ewing) 

Bracelet 512b  (Eager) 

Brag 513" 

Braided,  Braiding 513b 

cf  Embroidery  .         .  .  .940"  (Patch) 

cf  Plaiting 2407b 

Bramble 

cf  Thorns,   Thistles.  .  .2974"  (Masterman) 

Bran :>13b 

Branch,  Bough 513b  (Masterman) 

cf  Nose 2155b  (Luering) 

cf  Zoroastrianism  .  .     .3157"  (Easton) 
Brand 514" 

cf  Firebrand 1  1121'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Branding 

cf  Punishments 25041'  (Ilirsch) 

Brasen 

cf  Brass 514"  (Patch);  730"  (Patch) 


Brass,  Brazen 514"  (Patch);  73(5"  (Patch) 

cf  Steel 2850b 

Bravery 514a 

Brawler 514"  (Kaiser) 

Bray.  .  514b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Mortar 20S3"  (Or) 

Brazen 514"  (Patch);  73(1"  (Patch; 

Brazen  Altar 

cf  Temple.  .  ...  .2933"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Brazen  Sea 

cf  Knop 1815b 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Brazen  Serpent 2736"  (Day) 

cf  Images 1455"  (Cobern) 

cf  Moses  .  20SS"  (Kyle) 

Breach 514b  (Hirsch) 

Breach  of  Covenant. 

cf  Crimes 740"  (Ilirsch) 

Breach  of  Kitual 

cf  Crimes 740"  (Hirsch) 

Breach  of  Trust 3025" 

Bread 514h  (Eager) 

Bread-making 515" 

Baking 515b 

Forms  of  loaves.  .  .  .510" 

( '.rinding 515" 

Kneading 515b 

Ovens 515b 

Dietary      preeminence 
of 515" 

cf  Food  1121b  (Eager) 

cf  Hospitality  .         .  .  .1432"  (Easton) 

cf  Leaven 1S02"  (Eager) 

Materials 515" 

Barley 515" 

Kinds  of  flour 515" 

Wheat 515" 

cf  Meals 2013b  (Eager) 

Sanctity  of  bread 51Gb 

Symbolism  of  breath.  .517" 

Breadth 517" 

Break 517"  (Hirsch) 

Break  Asunder 310"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Break  of  Day 517b 

cf  Dawn 797b  (Porter) 

Breast 517b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Sacrifice  in  OT  .     .  .2038"  (Reeve) 
Breastplate 253b 

cf  Armor 251"  (Nicol) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites  .  2 452"  (Wiener) 
Breastplate  of   the   High 

Priest .  .517b  (T.  Lewis) 

Breath,  Breathe,  Breath- 
ing. ...  .  .  .51S"  (Van  Pelt) 

cf  Spirit 284 lb  (Marais) 

Breeches.  .  518"  (W'olf) 

Breed 51 8b  (Ilirsch) 

Brethren 

cf  Brother 525"  (Pratt) 

Brethren  of  the  Lord..  .  .  51S1'  (Jacobs) 

cf  James,     Brother    of 

the  Lord 1501"  (Kerr) 


GENERAL IXDEX 


Brethren  of  the  Lord — continued 

cf     James,     Son     of 

Alphaeus 1501"  (Kcrr) 

cf  James,  Son  of  Zel>e- 

(lec 1500"  (Kcrr) 

ef  .loses 1743" 

cf  Jude 1707b 

cf   Simon    (brother    of 

Jesus) 279.")-'  (S  .  F.   Hunter) 

Bribery f)2<)''  (Kaiser) 

ef  Crimes 745b  (Ilirseh) 

ef  Justice 1781b  (Kail) 

cf  Punishments 2.")()4b  (Hirseh) 

Brick 5201'  (Pat  ch) 

cf  Pottery 2423b  (Patch) 

Brick-kiln." 522" 

Bride 

cf  Marriage 199Gh  (Eager) 

Bride-chamber 522" 

cf  Chamber SOI1'  (Berry) 

cf  Marriage 19001'  (Eager) 

Bride-chamber,    Sons    of 

the f>22a 

Bridegroom,  Bridegroom, 

Friend  of 

cf  Marriage 1990b  (Eager) 

Bridge 522"  (Hirseh) 

Bridle 

cf  Bit  and  Bridle 4S2b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Brier 

cf  Thorns,  Thistles.  .  .2074a  (Masterman) 
Brigandine 

cf  Armor,  Arms 251"  (Xicol) 

cf  Coat  of  Mail 253b  (Xicol) 

Brightness 522" 

Brim 522" 

Brimstone 522b  (Patch) 

Bring 522b  (Hirseh) 

Brink 523" 

Broad 523'1  (Kaiser) 

cf  City 602-  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Gate 11751'  (Easton) 

Broad  Place 

ef  City GG2"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Broidered 523" 

cf  Braided 5131' 

cf  Embroidery 940"  (Patch) 

Broken .523"  (Hirseh) 

cf  Break 517"  (Hirseh) 

Brokenfooted 523b 

Brokenhanded 5231' 

Brokenhearted 5231' 

Brooch 523b 

cf  Bracelet 512b  (Eager) 

cf  Ring 2504"  (Craimell) 

Brook.  .  523b  (Day) 

ef  River 2595"  (Dayi 

cf  Stream 2800b  (Day) 

cf  Vale 3045"  (Day) 

cf  Watercourse 3074b  (Day) 

cf  Willows,  The  Brook 
of . .  . . 3085b 


Brook  of  Egypt,  The. .  . 

cf  Shihor 

Broom 

cf  Juniper 

Broth 

cf  Food 

Brother 

cf  Relationships,  Earn 

ily... 

Brotherhood  

Brother-in-Law 

cf  Relationships,  Earn 

ily  .  . 

Brotherly 

Brotherly    Kindness 

Love 

Between  Christians.  . 

Moral  idea 

Stoic  teaching 

Brother's  Wife 

Brow 

Brown 

cf  Colors 

Bruise,  Bruised 

Bruit 

Brute,  Brutish 

Bubastis 

cf  Pi-beset  h 
Bucket 
Buckle 
Buckler 

cf  Armor,  Arms 
Bud 

cf  Flowers 

Buffalo 

cf  Cattle 
Buffet 
Bugean 
Build,  Building 

cf  Architecture 

Early    building    condi 
t  ions 

cf  Fortification 

Foundations 

cf  House 

Masonry 

Modem  methods.  .  .  . 

Builder 

Bukki 

Bukkiah 

cf  Bakbukiah 

Bui 

cf  Calendar 

Bull,  Bullock 

cf  Cattle 

Bull,  Wild 

cf  Antelope 

cf  Cat.tle 

Bulls,  Jeroboam's 

cf  Calf,  Golden 

Bulrush 

cf  Reed  . 


523b  (Kyle) 
2708-  (Kyle) 
525"  (Estes) 
17X1"  (Masterman) 
525"  (Eager) 
112V>  (Eager) 
525"  (Pratt ) 


2554"  (X.  and  E.D.  Isaacs; 

525b 


2554a(N.andE.D.  Isaacs) 
525b  (Pratt) 


525" 

520"  (Hirsch) 


074b  (Patch) 

520b  (Kinsella) 

520b 

520b  (Kapp) 


1120b  (Masterman) 


113Gb  (Xicol) 

527" 

1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

527";  2007a 

527b 

527b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

528" 

528a 

378" 

528" 

54  lb  (Porter) 

583b  (Day) 

1  13b  (Day) 
5831'  (Day) 

542b  (Cobern) 
2544"  (Masterman; 


3206 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Bulrushes,  Ark  of 242"  (Kyle) 

Bulwark 528a 

cf  Fortification 1136b  (Nicol) 

Bunah 528a 

Bunch 52Sa 

Bundle 528a  (Van  Pelt) 

Bunni 52Sb  (Wolf) 

Burden 528b  (Trevcr) 

cf  Oracle 219Sb  (Easton) 

Burglary 

cf  Crimes 746a  (Hirsch) 

Burial 529a  (Eager) 

Burial  procession 530" 

Coffins  unknown..  .  .530" 

Dirge  songs 53  lb 

Professional   mourn- 
ers   530a 

Custom   of   immediate 

burial 529a 

Burial  of  Jesus 529a 

Duties    of    next    of 

kin 529b 

Persons .~>29a 

Time 529b 

Failure  of  burial  a 

calamity 531b 

Graves 530b 

Dug  in  the  earth .  .  .  530b 

Family  tombs 530b 

Mourning  at  grave. .  531" 

Sealed  stones 531" 

Marking  burial  places. 53 lb 

Preparations 529b 

Ceremony 529b 

Jewish     and     other 

customs 530" 

cf  Sepulchre 2732" 

cf  Shroud 2781" 

cf  Spice 2840"  (Master-man) 

Burier 532" 

Burn,  Burning 532a 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

Burnt  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice 2643a  (Reeve) 

Burnt  Sacrifice 

cf  Sacrifice 2G43a  (Reeve) 

Burst  Asunder 316b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Bush 532a  (Masterman) 

Bush,  Burning 532b  (Kyle) 

cf  Moses 2085a  (Kyle) 

cf  Plagues  of  Egypt. .  .2403a  (Kyle) 

Bushel 532b 

Bushy 533" 

Business 533"  (Kinsella) 

Busybody 533a  (Dosker) 

Butler 533"  (Pollard) 

Butter 

cf  Food 1121>>  (Eager) 

Buying 533!l  (Eager) 

In  the  earliest  periods 

and  among  nomads .  533b 
Open  air  markets 535" 


B  uy  ing — conti  nucd 

Oriental  buying 534a 

Shops  and  bazaars ....  534a 

Buz,  Buzi,  Buzite 535b  (Wolf) 

By 535b 

By  and  By 535b 

Byblus 

cf  Gebal 1180"  (Porter) 

Bypaths  (Byway) 535b 

Byssus 

cf  Linen 1894a  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Byway 535b 

Byword 535b 

Cab  (Kab) 1788b 

Cabbon 536" 

cf  Machbena 1959b 

Cabin 536° 

Cabul 536"  (Ewing) 

Caddis 

cf  Gaddis 1153a 

Cades 

cf  Kedesh 1791" 

Cades-barne     ( K  a  d  e  s  h  - 

barnea) 1788b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Cadhe 536a 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

Caesar 53(5" 

Caesarea 53(5"  (Ewing) 

cf  Ships  and   Boats .  .  .  2774"  (Nicol) 

cf  Transfiguration, 

Mount  of 3006"  (Ewing) 

Caesarea  Philippi 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1648b  (Orr) 

cf  Jordan 1733"  (Wright ) 

Caesar's  Household 537"  (Rutherfurd) 

Cage 538"  (St  ratton-Porter) 

Caiaphas 538b  (Kerr) 

cf  Jesus  Christ,  Arrest 

and  Trial  of 1670"  (Maclaren) 

cf  Priest,  High 2441b  (Reeve) 

Cain 538b  (Farr) 

cf  Criticism  of  Bible.  .74Sb  (Orr) 

cf  Inspiration 1473"  (Warfield) 

cf  Kenites 1792"  (Ewing) 

Cainan 839b 

Cake 

cf  Bread 514b  (Eager) 

Calah 539b  (Pinches) 

cf  Babel 350"  (Pinches) 

cf  Babel,  Tower  of  ...  355b  (Pinches) 

cf  Babylon  in  the  NT  .  358"  (Fortune) 

cf  Resen 2561"  (Pinches) 

Calamity 540b  (Pratt) 

Calamolalus 541" 

Calamus 

cf  Reed 2544"  (Masterman) 

Calcol 541" 

Caldron 541"  (Berry) 

Caleb 541"  (Margolis) 

cf  Moses 2088"  (Kyle) 

Caleb-ephrathah 54  lb 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3207 


Calendar 541b  (Porter) 

cf  Abib 9a  (Beecher) 

cf  lyyar 1545b 

cf  Kislcv 1813b 

cf  Month 2081a  (Porter) 

cf  Nisan 2153" 

cf  Shebat 2753b 

cf  Sivan 281 3b 

cf  Tammuz 2908-  (Porter) 

cf  Tebcth 2924" 

cf  Third 2973- 

cf  Time 2982-  (Porter) 

cf  Tishri  (Tisri) 2987a 

cf  Ziv 3153a 

Calf 542-  (Day) 

cf  Cattle 583b(Day) 

cf  Gods  (goldon) 1271a  (Reeve) 

Calf,  Golden 542b  (Cobern) 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Idolatry 1447b  (Cobern) 

cf  Images 1452a  (Cobern) 

cf  Israel,  History  of .  .  .  1520b  (Orelli) 

cf  Moses 2087b  (Kyle) 

Calf  Image 

cf  Images 1452a  (Cobern) 

Calitas 545b  (Edwards) 

Calker 

cf  Ships  and  Boats 2774a  (Xicol) 

Calling 545b  (Trevor) 

Callisthenes 545b 

Calnch 546*  (Pinches) 

cf  Shinar 2772b  (Pinches) 

Calneh  (Calno) 546b 

Calphi 

cf  Chalphi 59  lb 

Calvary 

cf  Golgotha 1275a  (Masterman) 

Calves  of  the  Lips 546b  (T.  Lewis) 

Calvin 

cf  Lord's  Supper 1926b  (Dosker) 

Cambyses 546b  (11.  D.  Wilson) 

Camel 547b  (Day) 

cf  Horse 1423*  (Day) 

cf  Needle 2129b  (Patch) 

cf  Swift  Beasts 2875b 

Camel's  Hair 548-  (Patch) 

cf  Weaving 3077-  (Patch) 

Camon 548b 

cf  Kamon 1789b  (Ewing) 

Camp 

cf  War 30G9b  (Xicol) 

Cana  of  Galilee 548b  (Ewing) 

Canaan,  Canaanites 549a  (Sayce) 

cf  Fortification 1136b  (Xicol) 

Invasion    of,    archaeo- 
logical   theory 232-  (Kyle) 

of  Traffic 3004b  (Raffety) 

Canaanitess 

cf  Bathshua 416b 

cf  Shua 2781" 

Canals 552"  (Kyle) 

cf  Stream   .  .  .2866b  (Day) 


Cananaean 

cf  Simon 2795-  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Candace 552b 

Candle 552b  (Eager) 

cf  Tabernacle 2887b  (Caldecott;  <  >rr) 

Candlestick,  The  Golden  .  553-  (Orr) 

cf  Almond l()0!l  (Masterman) 

cf  Knop 1815b 

cf  Lamp 1825-  (Porter) 

cf  Tabernacle 2891-  (Caldecoft;  Orr) 

cf  Temple 2938b  (Caldecott;  Orrj 

Cane 

cf  Reed 2514-  (Masterman) 

Canker 

cf  Gangrene 1173b  (Macalister) 

Cankered 553b 

Canker-worm 553b 

cf  Caterpillar 583a 

Canneh 553b  (Fortune) 

Canon,  NT 563-  (Riggs) ;  467b  (Orr) 

cf  Gospels,  Synoptic  .  .1281b  (Iverach) 

cf  Matthew,  Gospel  of .  20()9b  (Schoddo ) 
Canon,  OT 554-  (Robinson) 

cf      Synagogue,      The 

Great 2S79b  (Orr) 

Canonical       Apocryphal 

Gospels 195b  (Hutchison) 

Canopy 560-  (Sampey) 

Canticles 

cf  Song  of  Songs  ....  2831-  (Sampey) 
Caperbcrry 566b  (Masterman) 

cf  Food 1124a  (Eager) 

Capernaum 566b  (Ewing) 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of 1165-  (Ewing) 

cf  Palestine 2221b  (Condor) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2229b  (Cobern) 

Caph  (Kaph) 1789b 

Capharsalama 567b 

Caphenatha 

cf  Chaphenatha 594b 

Caphira 568-;  602b 

cf  Pira 2400- 

Caphthorim 568a 

Caphtor,  Caphtorim  ....  568-  (Ewing) 

Cappadocia 568-  (White) 

Captain 568b  (Xicol) 

cf  Army,  Roman 257-  (Allen) 

cf  Augustan  Band.  .  .  .258-  (Allen) 

cf  Guard 1307b  (Nicol) 

Captive 569b  (Farr) 

cf  Captivity 569b  (Nicol) 

cf  War 3069b  (Nicol) 

Captivity 569b  (Nicol) 

Northern  Kingdom  .  .  .570- 

cf  Seventy  Years 274  4 b 

Southern  Kingdom..  .  .57 11' 
Captivity  Epistles 466b  (Orr) 

cf  Philemon 2366b  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

Car 

cf  Palanquin 2208" 

Carabasion 576- 


3208 


Caravan 

Caravansary 

ef  Inn  . M70«  (Christie) 

Carbuncle 

cf  Stones,  Precious  .  .  .2856"  (Fletcher) 

Carcas 576b 

Carcass  (Carcase; 576b  (Steams) 

Carcheniish.  .  .  .  .  .570b  (Pinches) 

cf  Pluiraoh-necoli 2360"  (Nicol 

Care 577b  (Trever) 

Careah  (Karcah) .  .         .  .1790" 
Careful,  Carefulness 

cf  Care 577h  (Trcver) 

Carefully 578"  (Trcver) 

(Careless,  Carelessly 578b  (Trever) 

Carein 57s1' 

Curia 578b  (Banks) 

Curites 578b 

Cannanians        (Carmo- 

nians) 580"  (Hutchison) 

Cariue  (Channel 598" 

Canuel 579"  (Ewing) 

Carmelite 579b 

cf  Hezro,  Ile/rai 1388'' 

Curmelitess.  . 579b 

Canui 5791'  (Wolf) 

Caruiouiaus 580"  (Hutchison) 

Carnaim 580" 

Carnal 580"  (Trevcr 

cf  Man,    Natural.  .     .  .1974"  Webb) 

Camion  (Carnaim) 580" 

Carousings 580" 

Carpenter 580" 

cf  Carving 58l>>  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Tools  ...  .  .  .2998>>  (Easton) 

Carpus 580b  (Dusker; 

Carriage 580b  (Patch  ) 

Carry 580b  (Fortune) 

Carshena 5SOb 

cf  Prince 2453"  (Baur) 

Cart 581"  (Patch) 

Carving 581b  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

Casdim  (Chescil) 005"  (Sanipcy) 

Case o81b 

Casement 

cf  House 143-11'  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Casiphia..  .">Slb 

Casluhim oSl1' 

cf  Philistines 237Gb  (Conder) 

Casphon  (Cas])hor) .">S1b 

Casphor 5Slh 

cf  Ashtoreth 270h  (Sayce) 

Caspin  (Caspis) 

cf  Casphor ">S1'" 

Cassia .">S2"  (Masterman) 

(^ast -')«2"  (Jacol)s) 

Castanets .">S2;l  (Fortune) 

Cast  away ;')S2:1 

Castle 

cf  Fortification 1 130b  (Xicol) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Castor  and  Pollux 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

cf  Dioscuri 851a  (Maunder) 

C'at 5S2b  (Hutchison) 

cf  Zoology 315")"  (Day) 

Catechist,    Catechumen . 582b  (Gerberding) 

cf  Education 9()()b  (Meyer) 

cf  Gospels,  Synoptic.  .  12S31'  (Iverach) 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of  .  .  .1991b  (Farmer) 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts 2X43"  (Lambert) 

cf  Teacher 2921"  (DeMent) 

( Caterpillar ">S3" 

cf  Canker-worm 5r)3b 

cf  Locust 19()7h  (Day) 

Catholic  Epistles r>S3"  (Pratt) 

cf  Bible,  The 4f>7"  (Orr) 

Cathua oS3b 

Cattle .»  (Day) 

cf  Antelope 1431'  (Day) 

cf  Hetist 418b  (Day) 

cf  Calf 542"  (Day) 

cf  Sheep 275ub  (Day) 

cf  Wild-ox 30S4'1  (Day) 

Cauda 5S4b(Calder) 

Caul 5S4b  (Luering) 

cf  Liver 1905b  (Luering) 

Cause 5S5"  (Stearns) 

Causeway 5S5"  (Stearns) 

Cave.  . 5S5"  (Day) 

cf  Adullam (>2b  (Beecher) 

cf  Den S29b(l)ay) 

cf  Machpelah 1959b  (Masterman) 

cf  Makkedah 1909"  (Ewing) 

Cease 586"  (Pratt) 

Ce.lar 5SG"    (Masterman);     509b 

(Masterman) 

cf  Heifer,  Red 13G7b  (Easton) 

Cedars  of  Lebanon 5S6a 

cf  Lebanon 1863"  (Wright) 

Cedron  (Kidron) 1798" 

Ceilan  (Kilan) 1798b 

Ceiled,  Ceiling 587"  (Berry) 

Celebrate 587"  (Pratt) 

Celestial 5S7b  (Pratt) 

Cellar 587b  (Berry) 

Celo-Syria 

cf  Code-Syria ()72b  (Ewing) 

Cenchreae 587b 

Cendebaeus 587b 

Censer 587b  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Firepan 1113"  (Hovey) 

cf  Incense 14G(»b  (Orr) 

Census 

cf  Chronology  of  NT.  .645"  (Armstrong) 

cf  David  .  .  . ' 790b  (Weir) 

Centurion 588"  (Nicol) 

cf  Augustan  Band.  .  .  .258"  (Allen) 

Cephas 

cf  Peter  ....  .  .234S1'  (Gray) 

Ceras  (Kerns; 1793" 

Cereals 

cf  Food 1122"  (Eager) 

cf  Meals  .  .  .  2013b  (Eager) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Cerinthus 

cf  John,   1  Ep.  of 1714"  (L;i\v) 

Certain,   Certainly,   Cer- 
tainty  f>X8n  (Stearns,) 

Certify f)SSb 

Cetab  (Ketab).  .  .  .  1793b 

Chabiri 

cf  Tell  el-Amarna 2927''  (Kyle) 

Chain-is 588b 

Chadias 5SS>> 

Chaereas 588b 

Chafe 588b 

Chaff .r,S8b  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 75b  (Patch) 

cf  Rolling  Thing 2597b 

cf  Straw 28GG1'  (I'aMn 

Chain 589a  (Fortune) 

cf  Fetter 1107b 

cf  Punishments 2.104'"  (Ilir.sch) 

Chair 

cf  Seat 271()l)  (Cotton) 

Chalcedony 

cf  Stones,  Precious  .  .  .285G"  (Fletcher) 

Chalcol  (Calcol) 541a 

Chaldea 589b  (Pinches) 

cf  Babylonia 358b  (Clay) 

cf  Shinar 2771b  (Pinches) 

Chalkol 541" 

Chalkstonc 591"  (Day) 

cf  Clay G67"  (Day) 

cf  Lime 1S931'  (Day) 

cf  Slime 2817b  (Day) 

Challenge 591" 

Chalphi....  .  ..591b 

Chamber,  Roof  Chamber.  591b  (Berry) 

Chambering 59  lb 

Chamberlain 591b  (Pollan!) 

Chambers  in  the  Heavens 

cf  Astronomy 300'"  (Maunder) 

cf  Dial  of  Ahaz 841"  (Maunder) 

Chambers  of  Imagery    .  .592a 

cf  Images 1452"  (Coborn) 

Chambers  in  Soutli 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

cf  South,  Chambers  of  .  2838b 

Chameleon 592a  (Day 

cf  Ferret 110Gb  (Day) 

cf  Land-crocodile 1S2G1'  (Day) 

cf  Lizard 1906-  (Day) 

cf  Mole 2074-  (Day) 

cf  Pelican 2297a  (St  rat  ton-Porter) 

cf  Swan 2S74b  (St  rat  ton-Porter) 

Chamois 592b  (Day) 

cf  Coat 1249-  (Day) 

Champaign.  .  592b  (Day) 

cf  Arabah 21  lb  (Wright) 

cf  Natural  Features.  .  2122:'  (Day) 
cf  Vale .'5045"  (D.-iy) 

Champion 593" 

Chanaan 

cf  Canaan 549"  (Sayce) 


Chance 593"  (Trover) 

cf  (lad 1152"  (Stearns) 

cf  Happen 133Gb  (\V.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Meni 2033" 

Chancellor 593b  (Stearns) 

Change 593b  (Pratt) 

Change  of  Raiment 

cf  Dress 875''  (Eager) 

Changer 59  1" 

cf  Bank,  Banking.  .  .  .383"  (Eager) 

cf  Money-changers  .  .  .  20801'  (Pollard) 
Channel 594a  (Day) 

cf  Brook 523b  (Day; 

cf  River 2595"  (Day; 

cf  Stream 2860b  (Day) 

Chant 594" 

Chanuneus 594b 

Chapel 59  lb 

Chaphenatha 594h 

Chapiter 

cf  Architecture 234"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Chapman 594b 

cf  Trade 3002"  (Easton) 

Chapt  .  .  594b 

Chapters 

cf  Text  of  the  OT  .  .  .  .29G3b  (Weir) 

Charaathalan 594b 

Characa  (Charax) 594b 

Charashim 

cf  Ge-harashim 1182a 

Charax 594b 

Charchemish        (Carche- 

mish) 57Gb  (Pinches) 

Charchus 

cf  Barchus 403b 

Charea 594b 

cf  Harsha 1341" 

Charge,  Chargeable 594b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Charger 595"  (Estes) 

Charges 595" 

cf  Overcharge 2205" 

Chariot 595a  (Nicol) 

Chariots  of  the  Sun 59Gb  (Margolis) 

cf  Images 1452"  (Cobern) 

Charitably 59Gb 

Charity 597"  (Roes) 

Charm 597b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Magic,  Magician.  .  .19(53"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Charrne 598" 

Charmis 59Sa 

Charran  (Ilaran) 1337" 

Chase 

cf  Hunting 1440a  (Smith) 

Chaseba 598b 

Chaste,  Chastity 

cf  Crimes 745b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Marriage 1990b  (Eager) 

Chastening,         (.'has!  ise- 

ment 598b  (Jacobs) 

Chatter 599" 

cf  Chirp  .  .  .012"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Chavah  .  .  .  .  599" 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Chebar 599a  (Ewing) 

Chock 599" 

Checker-work 599" 

cf  Broidered 523" 

cf  Embroidery 940"  (Patch) 

Chedorlaomer 599"  (Pinches) 

cf  Hammurabi 1320"  (Pinclies) 

cf  Tidal 2980"  (Pinches) 

Cheek,  Cheekbone 000"  (Lueriiigj 

Check  Teeth G00>> 

Cheer,  Cheerfulness OOO1'  (Edwards) 

Cheese 

cf  Food 112:*1'  (Eager. 

cf  Milk 2051''  (X.  Isaacs) 

Chelal OOO1' 

Chclcias 

cf  Helkias 1371* 

cf  Hilkiah 1392"  (Wallace) 

Chellians G00b 

Chelluh  (Cheluhij 001" 

Chellns 000'' 

Chelod 000'' 

Chelub 000'' 

cf  Genealogy HS3h  (Crannell) 

Chelubai 001" 

cf  Caleb 541"  (Margolis) 

Cheluhi liOl" 

Chemarim 001"  (Van  Pelt) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites  244(ih  (Wiener,) 
Chemosh 001"  (Nicol) 

cf  Gods 1271"  (Reeve) 

cf  Moab 207()b  (Porter; 

cf      Semites,      Semitic 

Religion 2717"  (Mack) 

Chenaanah 002'' 

Chenani 002b 

Cl.e.umiah G02b 

Chephar-ammoni 002b 

Chephar-haamoni 

cf  Chephar-ammoni.  .  .002b 

Chephirah 002b 

Cheran 003" 

Cherethites 003"  (E\ving) 

cf  Caphtor 508"  (Ewing) 

cf  Pelethites 2297" 

cf    Stranger    and    So- 

jonrner  (OT) 2805"  (Wiener) 

Cherish 003" 

Chcrith,  The  Brook.  .  .  ,(i03" 

Cherub  (place) 003b 

Cherubic    Eorms   in    the 

Constellations 

cf  Astronomy 300''  (Maunder) 

Cherubim 003b  (Margolis) 

cf  Astronomy 310b  (Maunder; 

cf  Tabernacle 2890b  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

cf  Temple 2933b  (Caldecotl;  OITJ 

Chesalon 004b 

cf  Jetirim,  Mount  .  .  .  . 1572b 

Chesed (SO.")"  (Sampeyj 

Chesil 005" 

Chest 005"  (Eager) 


Chestnut  Tree 

cf  Plane  Tree 2407b 

Chesulloth 005b 

Chcth  (Heth) 1384b 

Chettiim  (Kittim) 18141'  (Pinches) 

Chew  Cud 005b  (N.  Isaacs) 

Chezib  (Achzi!>) 37b  (Mack) 

Chicken 605b  (Stratton-Porter) 

Chide 60Ga 

Chidon,  The    Threshing- 

floor  of GOG3 

Chief GOG"  (Farr) 

cf  Asiarch 282"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Chief  Friends,  Good  Men 

cf        Friends,        Chief 

Friends 1140" 

Chief  Musician 

cf  Asaph 202b  (Millar) 

Chief  Seats G()Gb  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Synagogue 2878''  (LevertoiT) 

Child,  Children G00b  (Stearns;  Fortune) 

cf  Firstborn,  Firstling.  1113b  (T.  Lewis) 

Child-bearing 007b  (Jacobs) 

Childhood,      Apocryphal 

Gospel  of  the 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  195"  (Hutchison) 
Children    of    the    Bride- 
chamber 

cf  Bridechamber,  Sons 

of  the 522a 

Children  of  the  East  .  .  .  .  G101'  (Fort  une) ;  8SSb  (Day) 

cf  People 2319"  (Easton) 

Children  of  Eden 007b  (Fortune) 

Children  of  God 008"  (Rees) 

cf  Adoption 58"  (Rees) 

cf  Fat  her,  God  the.  .  .  .1100''  (Orr) 

cf  God 1201b  (Rees) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1024"  (Orr) 

cf  Sons  of  God  (OT)  .  .2835"  (Crichton) 

Children  of  Israel G10b  (Fortune; 

Chileab Oil"  (Wolf) 

Chilion 611"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Chilmad 01  la  (PinchesJ 

Chimham Oil"  (Wolf) 

Chimney 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Chinnereth Oil" 

Chios Gllb  (Harry) 

cf  Samos 2G74b  (Kinsella; 

Chirp 612"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Chatter 599a 

Chisleu  (Kislcv) 1813b 

Chislon 012" 

Chisloth-tabor 

cf  Chesulloth 005b 

Chitlish 012" 

Chit lim  (Kit  tim) 1814b  (Pinches) 

Chiun 012"  (Margolis) 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Rephan 2500" 

cf      Semites,      Semitic 

Religion 2717"  (Mack) 


GEXERAL  INDEX 


Chloe .  .012"  (Kaiser) 

Choba,  Chobai 61 2b 

Choenix 612b 

Choice 

cf  Choose 6t2b  (Rees) 

cf  Providence 24X2"  (Tillett) 

cf  Will 3085"  (W.  I,.  Walker) 

Choke 612b  (Fortune) 

Chola G121' 

Choler 612>> 

Choose,  Chosen G121'  (Rees) 

cf     Foreordain,     Fore- 

ordination 113 1"  (Orr) 

Chop 614" 

Chorashan  (Cor-ashan) .  .709b 

Chora/Jn 614"  (Ewing) 

cf  Palestine 222 11'  (Conder) 

Chorbc 614° 

Chosamaeus G14a 

Chosen 

cf  Choose G12h  (Rees) 

Chozeba 

cf  Achzib 37'>  (Mack) 

Christ,  Exaltation  of G14b  (Sevan) 

Ascension 2G3b       (Thomas);       615" 

(Bevan) 

Judgment 1777"  (Jacobs) 

Parousia 2249='  (Eastern; 

Resurrection 2565b  (Thomas) 

Christ,  Intercession  of 
cf       Intercession       of 

Christ 14S7b  (Bevan) 

Christ,  Jesus 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1624"  (Orr) 

Christ    as    King,    Priest, 
Prophet 
cf  Christ,  Offices  of.  .  .61Gh  (Bevan) 

cf  King,  Christ  as 1802-  (M'Caig) 

cf  Priest 2441"  (Moorehead) 

Christ,  Offices  of G16b  (Bevan) 

cf  King,  Christ  as  ....  1802"  (M'Caig) 

cf  Priest 2441"  (Moorehead) 

cf  Priest,  High 2441b  (Reeve) 

cf  Priesthood 2444"  (Moorehead) 

Christ,  Person  of 2338"  (Warfield) 

Christ,  Temptation  of.  .  .2943"  (Anderson) 

Christian 621b  (J.  Dickie) 

Christianity 

In  Arabia 219"  (Weir) 

Historical      and      doc- 
trinal   G24b  (Orr) 

In    principle    and 

essence 623"  (J.  Dickie) 

cf  Leviticus 1880"  (Moller) 

cf  Xero 2138"  (Angus) 

Christology 

cf  Person  of  Christ  .  .  .2338"  (Warfield) 

Christs 

cf  Christs,  False 628b  (Orr) 

cf  Messiah 2039a  (Crichton) 

Christs,  False G28b  (Orr) 


( 'hronicles,  Books  ol 

Additions  to 

Authorship . 

Contents.     . 

Critical  estimates G321' 

Date 633' 

Xame 6291' 

Numbers 030" 

( hnissions 032" 

Position  in  OT G29b 

Purpose  of G321' 

cf  Quotations 2r>20b  (Sweet) 

Sources 630" 

Text G32b 

Trustworthiness 634" 

Value 635" 

Chronology  of  XT 644b  (Armstrong) 

Apostolic  age G47b 

Baptism  of  Jesus 646b 

Birth  of  Jesus 645" 

Captivity  of  Paul.  .  .  .648b 

Conversion  of  Paul .  .  .  647b 

Death  of  Jesus G471' 

Edict  of  Claudius.  .  .  .G4Sb 

Epistles  of  Paul G49b 

Famine  under  Claudius  G48a 

Gallic G48b 

cf  Gospels,  Synoptic.  .  1284a  (Iverach) 

Herod  Agrippa 648" 

cf  Jesus  Christ  (Chro- 
nology)   1628b 

Jews  expelled  from 
Rome 648b 

Ministry  of  Jesus 646b 

Missionary  journeys 
of  Paul G49a 

cf  Passion  Week 1655";  1658"  (Orr) 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle.  .  .2270b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Pentecost 231S"  (Dosker) 

Release  and  death  of 
Paul 649b 

St.  Peter's  death 650a 

Sergius  Paulus 648" 

Synoptic  Gospels 650a 

Chronology  of  OT 635"  (Mack) 

Abraham  to  Creation  .643";  139"  (Davis) 
cf  Deluge  of  Noah.  .821b  (Wright) 

Ages  between  OT  and 

XT 636" 

cf  Ahaziah S2b  (Mosiman) 

Assyrian  period  and 
Judah  after  fall  of 
Samaria 638" 

Babylonian  period.  .  .  .637b 

Disruption  to  the  exo- 
dus   641" 

Divided  kingdom 
period 638b 

Exodus     to     birth     of 

Abraham 642" 

cf  Mcnahem 2031h  (Caldecott) 

Persian  period 636b 


GEXEKAL  INDEX 


2891-     2891"    (Caldecott 

Orr;    Whitelaw) 

of  Zechariah 3130"  (Caldccott) 

Chrysolite 

cf  Stones,   Precious.  .  .  28,">GM  (Fletcher) 
Chrysoprase,         Cliryso- 

prasus 

cf  Stones,  Precious  .     .  28f>G"  (Fletcher) 

Chub  (Cub) 7l5o" 

Chun  (Gun) 7Gob 

Church Gf>0b  (Lambert) 

Adoption    of    term    by 
Jesus G.">1" 

Consecration 0~>2b 

Faith Gf>2:' 

Fellowship Gf>2" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1048b  (Orr) 

Organization  of 053" 

Power Go2b 

Pre-Christian  history 
of  the   term Gol" 

cf  Presbyter 24371'  (Mack) 

Unity 0:>2' 

Use  of  term  in  XT.  .  .(if)!1' 
Church  of    the   Brethren 

cf        Lord's         Supper 

(Bunkers) 1929"  <  Kurtz) 

Church  Government  .  .  .  .  Gf>3b  (Forrester) 

cf  Bishop 4781'  (Dusker) 

Cooper  at  ive     rela- 
tions   0.").")" 

External  authority..  .  .Goo" 

cf  Government 12S7"  (Ileidd) 

Internal  order Go4" 

Meaning Go4" 

cf  Ministry 20o9>>  (T.  M.  Lindsay) 

cf  Pauline  Theology  .  .2289"  (East on.) 
Church  Officers 

In  Clement 1S971'  (Cowan 

In  Didache 1899"  (Cowan  < 

In  Ignatius 190()a  (Cowan! 

cf  Literature, Sub-apos.l896b  (Cowan) 
Churches,  Robbers  of 

cf  Robbers  of  Temples  2o9ob 
Churches,  Seven 

cf  Angels  of  the  Seven 

Churches IS.1)1'  (Banks) 

cf  Smyrna 2S1S1'  (Banks) 

Churl Goob  (Sampey) 

Chushan-rishathaim 

cf  Cushan-rishathaim    70S'1  (Baur) 

Chusi Goob 

Chuzas Goob 

cf  Joanna 1079"  (Kerr) 

Ciccar G5ob 

cf  Cities  of  the  Plain.  .000"  (Wright) 

cf  Plain 240Gb  (Day) 

Cidkenu 1584a 

Cieled,  Cieling 

cf  Ceiled,  Ceiling 5S7a  (Berry) 

Cilicia .  .  055b  (White) 


Cinnamon GoGa  (Masterman) 

cf  Cassia f>82"  (Masterman) 

Cinneroth  (Cliinnereth)  .011" 

Cirama  (Kirama) 1S1 1 ' 

Circle GoG1' 

cf  Astronomy 300''  (Maunder) 

cf  Ciccar 0. ")-")'•;  0(U)"  (Wright) 

cf  Plain 2K)(ib  (Day) 

Circle  of  the  Earth 

cf  Astronomy 3001'  (Maunder) 

Circuit ' G~)Gb  (X.  Isaacs) 

Circumcision Oo(ib     (T.    Lewis);       9101' 

(Petrie) 

cf  Firstborn,  Firstling .  11131'  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Foreskin 11311'  (Luering) 

cf  Sc>al 2709b  (Edwards) 

cf  Uncircumeised o()3oh  (Easton) 

Cis 057b 

Cisai  (Kiseus) 1S133 

Cistern,    Well,     Pool, 

Aqueduct  .  .  .  .  .O."1'  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Fountain 11  tlb  (Day) 

cf  Pool 241  {)»'  (Day) 

cf  Water 307  l:l  (Joy; 

cf  Well   .  .  .:i()Sl«  (Day) 

Citadel 

cf  Fortification 1 13Gb  (Nicoh 

Cithern ...  .000"  (Millar) 

cf  Music 209  lb  (Millar) 

Cities,  Levitical 

cf  City 002"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Levitical  Cities  .  .  .  .  1S09"  (Wiener) 
Cities    of    the    Plain, 

Ciccar 000"  (Wright) 

cf  Gomorrah 1277"  (Wright) 

cf  Slime,  Slime  Pits.  .  .2S17b  (Day) 

cf  Sodom 282 lb  (Wright) 

(Jit  ies  of  Refuge .  .  .  .  2545b  (Ewing) 

Cities,  Store 

cf  City 002"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Citims  (Chitthn) 1814b  (Pinches) 

Citizenship GGla  (Trever) 

cf  Roman  Law 201  lb  (Allen) 

Citron 

cf  Apple 209"  (Masterman) 

City 002"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Canaanite   city 002" 

Of  Confusion OG5a 

Of  David  (Zion) 31oOb  (Masterman) 

Of  Destruction OGo"  (Orr) 

cf  fortification 113Gb  (Nicol) 

cf  Gate 1175b  (Easton) 

cf  Golden  City 1275a 

of  Jewish  occupation . 663b 

Levitical  cities GG5";    1809"  (Wiener) 

cf  Refuge,  Cities  of.254ob  (Ewing) 

Of      Palm      T  r  e  e  s 

(Jericho) 1592a  (Wright) 

Royal  (Rabbah) 2520b  (Ewing) 

Rulers  of .  .  .• GG5b  (Fortune) 

cf  Salt,  City  of 2GG4b 

Store  cities. .  .  .  .GGoa 


CEXERAL  INDEX 


City — continued 

Town 3001-  (Christie) 

Village 30  I'.*1'  (Christie) 

Of  Waters  (Kabbah)  .  .2520''  (Ewingj 

Clap Olio1' 

Clasps ()().")'•  (Caldecott) 

of  Selved-e 27 Hi1' 

Clauda  (Cauda) f>84b  (Calder) 

Claudia 666-  (Jacobs) 

cf  Pudens 2501-  (Rutherfurd ) 

cf  Woman 3103='  (Pratt) 

Claudius COG11  (Hutchison) 

Claudius  Lysias GOG1'  (Kcrr) 

of  Lysias 1943b  (Hutchison) 

cf  Tertullus 2949h  (Kcrr) 

Claw  .  .  007- 

Clay 007-  (Day) 

cf  Lime 1S931'  (Day) 

Clean GG7b  (Crannell) 

cf  Defilement 818-  (Crannell) 

cf  Pure,  Purely 2500''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Purity  .                  .  .  .2507''  (Caverno) 
cf  Seed 2712b  (Easton) 

Clean     and     Unclean 
Animals 
of  Abomination 1G!1  (Eager) 

Clean  and  Unclean  Food  112 11'  (Eager) 

Clean     and      Unclean 
Meats 
cf  Abstinence 24b  (Eager) 

Cleanse G(57b  (Crannell) 

Clear,  Clearness GG8b  (Jacobs) 

Cleave 66Sb  (Fortune) 

Cleave   Asunder 31Gb  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Cleft,  Cliff,  Clift G68b 

Clemency 668b 

Clement G6911  (Jacobs) 

Clement  of  Home 481*  (Lowndcs) 

Clement,     Second     Epis- 
tle of 
cf      Literature,      Sub- 

apos 1902b  (Cowan) 

Cleopas 669- 

cf  Alphaeus 10Ga  (Fortune) 

of  Clopas GG9b  (Jacobs) 

Cleopatra 669"  (Hutchison) 

Cleophas  (Clopas) G69b  (Jacobs) 

Clerk 

cf  Townelerk 3001-  (Dosker) 

Cliff,  Clift 

cf  Cleft GG81' 

Cloak,  Cloke 669-  (Eager) 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

Clod 669b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Clopas G69b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Alphaeus 106-  (Fortune) 

Close 6G9b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Closet GG9b  (Estes) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Cloth,  Clothing 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

Clothed  Upon 670a  (Clippinger) 


Clothes,  Rending  of .  .  .  .070-  (Fortune; 
Cloud 070-  (Joy) 

Jehovah's  presence  and 
glory  in 070'' 

In  Palestine 070- 

Pillar  of G70b 

Pain..  ...070- 

Transitory  .  .  .  .  .670'' 

Clout  .  .  .  .  .671- 

Cloven .  .  .     .071-  (Jacobs) 


cf  Armor 251-  (Xicol) 

cf  Staff 2S!7b 

Cluster 071-  (Masterman) 

Cnidus 071-  (Banks) 

Coal 071b  (Day) 

Coast 072-  (Day) 

cf  Island loll-  (Day) 

cf  Quarter 2513- 

cf  Shore 2779b  (Day) 

Coat 

cf  Cloak,  Cloke 069-  (Eager) 

cf  Coat  of  Mail 253>>  (Xicol) 

cf  Dress S75b  (Eager) 

cf  Priests  and  Levit.es  2446b  (Wiener) 
Cock 672-  (Strat ton-Porter) 

cf  Chicken G0f>b  (Stratton- Porter) 

Cockatrice 672b  (Day) 

cf  Serpent 2730-  (Day) 

Cock-crowing 6721' 

cf  Cock 072-  (Strat ton-Porter) 

Cocker G721' 

Cockle 072b  (Masterman) 

Code  of  Hammurabi.  .  .  .1327-  (Ungnad) 
Codex 

cf    Text    and     Manu- 
scripts of  XT 2952"  (Sitterly) 

Code-Syria 0721'  (Ewing) 

Coenaculum 

cf  Jerusalem 1013-  (Masterman) 

Coffer 673- 

Coffin 

cf  Burial 529-  (Eager) 

cf  Chest 005-  (Eager) 

Cogitation 073- 

Cohort 073- 

of  Band 382-  (Xicol;  Rees) 

Coins 073-  (Porter) 

cf  Money 2070-  (Porter) 

cf  Phoenicia 2388b  (Porter) 

cf  Sidon 2786-  (Porter) 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures.   3081-  (Porter) 

Cola  (Chola) 612b 

Cold 0731'  (Joy) 

cf  Seasons 27101'  (Joy) 

Col-hozeh 074- 

Colius 

cf  Calitas 545b  (Edwards) 

Collar 674-  (X.  Isaacs) 

Collection 674-  (Trover) 

cf  Communion.  .         .  .6S8b  (Miller) 


3214 


GENERAL  INDEX 


College G74" 

cf  Mishneh 2()66b  (Mastorman) 

Collop G74b 

Colony G74b  (Heidei) 

cf  Citizenship GGla  (Trover) 

cf  Philippi 2369»  (Tod) 

Color,  Colors G74b  (Patch) 

Bay G75a 

Black G7oa 

Blue 07.-)'' 

Brown G7~)b 

Crimson G7f>h 

cf  Dye,  Dyeing S83b  (Patch) 

Gray 075b 

Croon G7ob 

Hoar 07;?' 

cf  Paint 220Sa  (Crannoll) 

Purple 675b;  2509b  (Day) 

Rod G7ob 

Scarlet G7Ga 

Sorrel G7(i:i 

cf  Sorrel 2S3(ih 

Vermilion G7G" 

White G7Ga 

cf  Worm,  Scarlet-worm  3109a  (Day) 

Yellow G7Ga 

Colossae G7Gb  (Banks) 

Colossians,  Epistle  to  the  G7Gb  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

Argument G78a 

Authenticity G7Gb 

Destination t'»77:i 

Internal  evidence G77a 

cf  Laodiceans,  Epistle 

to  the 1S37"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf     Philemon,     Epistle 

to 23GG1'  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

Place  and  date G77a 

Purpose 677b 

Relation  to   other   NT 

writings G77b 

Colt G7Sa  (Day) 

Come G7Sb  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Comeliness G78b 

Comfort G78b  (Jacobs) 

Comfortably G78b  (Pratt) 

Comforter G79a  (Mullins) 

cf  Advocate G5a  (Mullins) 

cf  Holy  Spirit 1406a  (Mullins) 

cf  Paraclete 2245a  (Mullins) 

Comfortless G79a  (Pratt) 

Coming  of  Christ 

cf  Desire  of  All  Nat  ions  832b  (Gray) 

cf  Parousia 2249a  (Easton) 

Coming,  Second 

cf  Parousia 2249a  (Easton) 

Commandment G79b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Precept 2434b  (Edwards) 

cf    Ten    Command- 
ments  2944b  (Sampey) 

Commandment,    The 

New G79b  (Rees) 

cf  Brotherly  Love  ....  525b  (Rees) 


Commandments,  The 

Ten 29441'  (Sampey) 

Commandments  and  the 

Family 1095b  (Caverno) 

Commend G80a  (Jacobs) 

Commentaries G80b  (Orr) 

Differences     in     char- 
acter  G81a 

Hebrew 685"  (Oko) 

Meaning  of  term G80b 

Range  of G81a 

Commentary G87a  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf    Chronicles,     Books 

of G29b  (Beecher) 

cf  Midrash 2050° 

Commerce GS7b  (Pollard) 

cf  Phoenicia 2388b  (Porter) 

cf    Stranger    and    So- 

journer  in  the  OT. .  .  286,r)a  (Wiener) 

cf  Trade 3002"  (Easton) 

Commission,  Great 

cf  Jesus  Christ lGGGb  (Orr) 

Commit GSSa  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Commodious G88a 

Common G88a  (Jacobs) 

Commonwealth G88b 

cf  Citizenship 6Gla  (Trevor) 

Commune G88b 

cf  Communion G88b  (Miller) 

Communicate 688b 

Communication 688b 

Communion 688b  (Miller) 

Fellowship  —  Almsgiv- 
ing  G89" 

Fellowship — C  o  m  m  u  - 
nity GS9a 

Fellowship  —  Cooper- 
ation 689a 

Fellowship      in      Holy 
Eucharist 688b 

Fellowship  of  the  Holy 
Spirit 689" 

cf  Lord's  Supper 1921b  (Gummey;  Dosker; 

Dau;  Kurtz) 

Communion     with     De- 
mons  G89b  (Sweet) 

cf  Familiar 1094a  (Pollard) 

cf  Night-monster 2143b  (Sweet) 

Community  of  Goods .  .  .  690b  (Jacobs) 

Compact 691a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Company 691a  (Pratt) 

Comparative  Religion.  .  .691b  (Tisdall) 

Compare 694b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Compass 694b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Tools 2999a  (Easton) 

Compassion 695a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Pity 2402b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Compel 695b  (Trever) 

Complaining 695b 

Complete 695b 

Composition 695b 

Comprehend 695b  (Pratt) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


32 1f> 


Conaniah G9G" 

Conceal G'.)t>:' 

Conceit G9(>" 

Conception,  Conceive.  .  .696" 
cf    Immaculate    Con- 
ception   14,r)()b  (Sweet) 

Concerning G%"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Concision 696b 

cf  Circumcision 91()b  (Petrie) 

cf  Foreskin li:Ub  (Luering) 

cf  Member 2030"  (Luering) 

Conclude 6%'' 

Conclusion G9Gb 

Concordance 69Gb  (Orr ) 

Concourse G97b 

Concubinage 

cf  Family 1094b  (Caverno) 

Concupiscence 698a  (Jacobs) 

Condemn,       Condemna- 
tion   69S"  (Trevor) 

Condescension  of  Christ 

cf  Kcnosis 1792"  (Easton) 

Condiments 1124a  (Eager) 

Conduct 

cf  Ethics 1013*  (Alexander) 

Conduit 

cf  Cistern G57b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Coney 69Sb  (Day) 

cf  Rock-badger 2590b 

Confection,     Confection- 
ary   699a 

cf  Perfume 2321b  (Patch) 

Confederate,      Confeder- 
acy   699°  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Confer,  Conference 699a 

Confession 699a  (Jacobs) 

Confidence 700»  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Confirm,  Confirmation  . .  700a  (Jacobs) 
cf  Hands,  Imposition  of  1335a  (Orr) 

Confiscation 

cf  Punishments 2504h  (Hirsch) 

Conflict 700b 

cf  Agony 71b  (Pratt) 

Conform 70()b 

Confound 700b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Confusion 700b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Confusion  of  Tongues.  .  .2994b  (Easton) 
cf  Babel,  Tower  of  ...  355b  (Pinches) 

Congregation 700b  (Wiener) 

cf  Convocation 708a  (Wiener) 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .1103a  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Mount  of 701"  (Orr) 

cf  Tabernacle 2887b  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Coniah 701a 

cf  Jehoiachin 1577a  (doming) 

cf  Servant  of  Jehovah .  2739a  (Hough) 

Cononiah 

cf  Conaniah G9Ga 

Conqueror 701a  (Jacobs) 

Conscience 701b  (Stalker) 

Antecedent 702s 

Education  of.  .  ..702b 


Conscience — continued 

History  and  literature  .  703' 
Institutional  and  asso- 

ciational  theories.  .  .702' 
Sequent 

Judicial 7()lb 

Predictive 70 11' 

Punitive.  .  .  .  .  .701b 

Social..  7()lb 

cf  Spirit 2841b  (Marais) 

Consecrate,    Consecra- 
tion   703b  (Rees) 

cf  Ban  (Curse) 7G7a  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Holiness 1403b  (Lambert) 

cf  Nazirite 2124a  (Christie) 

Consent 704a  (Jacobs) 

Consider 704a  (Jacobs) 

Consist 704" 

Consolation 704a 

cf  Barnabas 40.")b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Comfort G78b  (Jacobs) 

Consort 704a 

Conspiracy 

cf  Confederacy G99a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Constant,  Constantly.  .  . 7()4b 

Constellations 

cf  Astronomy 309a  (Maunder) 

Constrain 704b 

cf  Compel 695b  (Trever) 

Consult 704b  (Fortune) 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf     Communion     with 

Demons 6S9b  (Sweet) 

cf  Divination 8GOa  (T.  W.  Davics) 

Consume 704b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Consummation 704b  (Clippinger) 

Consumption 705a 

Contain 

cf  Continency 705a  (Rees) 

Contend,  Contention. .  .  .  705a  (Jacobs) 

Content,  Contentment .  .  70oa 

Continency 705a  (Rees) 

cf  Temperance 2929b  (Jacobs) 

Continual,  Continually .  .  705a  (Jacobs) 

Continuance 705b 

Contradiction 705b 

Contrary 705b  (Clippinger) 

Contribution 705b  (Jacobs) 

Contrite,  Contrition 706a  (Jacobs) 

Controversy 70Ga  (Jacobs) 

Convenient 70Ga  (Jacobs) 

Convent 706a  (Fortune) 

Conversant 70Ga 

Conversation 706a  (Trever) 

Conversion 706b  (Xuelsen) 

cf  Paul 2278b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Regeneration 2549b  (Nuelson) 

cf  Repentance 2558a  (DeMent) 

Convict,  Conviction 707b  (Jacobs) 

Convince 70Sa 

cf  Convict 707b  (Jacobs) 

Convocation 70Sa  (Wiener) 


3210 


GENERAL  IXDEX 


Convulsing 

cf  Demon,   D  moniac  .S27"  (Sweet) 
Cooking 

cf  Food 1121''  (Eager) 

Cool 70S" 

Coos  (Cos) 723"  (Harry) 

Coping 

cf  House 143  I1'  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Copper 70S"  (Patch 

cf  .Melals 2044"  (Patcln 

cf  Mine,  Mining 20n(>b  (Patch) 

Coppersmith 70S1' 

cf  Copper 70S'1  (Patch) 

Coptic  Versions 70S1'  (Tisdall) 

Cor 70!)" 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Coral 70!)"  (Day) 

Cor-Jislum 7()!)b 

cf  Ashan 207:l 

Corban 70!)''  (Haur) 

cf  Treasure 30071'  (Kaffety) 

Corbc  (Chorbe) Oil" 

Cord 70!)''  (Eager) 

cf  Rope 2623''  (East on  i 

Cords,  Small 710" 

Core  (Korah) 181(»b  (Reecher) 

Coriander 710";  1124"  (Eager) 

cf  Food 112 11'  (Eager) 

Corinth 710"  (Harry; 

cf  Achaicus 3-">h 

Corinthians 

First  Epistle  to 711''  (Shaw;  4 111')"  (Orr) 

Authenticity  of 711h 

Contents  of 714" 

Date 713b 

Distinguishing     fea- 
tures   71.")" 

Occasion  of 713b 

Paul's  ])revious  rela- 
tions with  Corinth  713" 
Relations    to    Gala- 

tians lloS''  (G.  G.  Findlay) 

Text 713" 

Second  Epistle,  to 71t>"  (Shaw; 

Authenticity       and 

date 71C>" 

Contents 7  IS1' 

Historical  recon- 
struction   71S" 

Integrity 71Sa 

New  situation 717" 

Relations  to  Gala- 

tians ll.r)Sb  (G.  G.  Findlay; 

Resume  of  events  .  .  71(>b 

Value 720" 

Corinthus 720b 

cf  Corinth 710"  (Harry) 

Cormorant 720b  (Strat ton-Porter) 

Corn 720b  (Masterman) 

cf  Agriculture 75b  (Patch) 


Corn — continual 

cf  Food 

cf  Wheat,  .  .  . 

Cornelius 

cf  Army,  Roman 


.1122"  (Eager) 
.30S2b  (Masterman) 
.72 1--1  (Trevor) 
.2.-)7"  (Allen) 


Corner.  .  .  .721''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Corner  ( late 

cf  Jerusalem 1003"  (Masterman) 

Corners  of  the  Earth. .  .  .8S7:i  (Maunder) 
cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Corner-stone 72 lb  (Mack) 

cf  Canaan .",49"  (Saycej 

cf  Fortification 113G1'  (Xicol) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Cornet 

cf  Music 2094''  (Millar) 

Cornfloor 722" 

cf  Threshing-floor 2975''  (Patch  i 

Coronation 722" 

Corpse 722b  (Luering) 

cf  Burial .",29"  (Eager) 

Correction 722b  (W.  W.  Davies) 

Corruption 7221'  (Luering) 

Mount  of 723"  (Ewing) 

Cos 723"  (Harry) 

cf  Samos  .  .  .  .2C>74b  (Kinsella) 

Cosam 723" 

Cosmogony 

cf  Anthropology 144b  (Marais) 

cf  Creation 73S"  (J.  Lindsay) 

cf  Earth SS7"  (Day) 

cf  Evolution 1043b  (Zenos) 

cf  Sky.  .  ...    2S14b  (Day) 

cf  World,  Cosmological  3106°  (Orr) 

Cosmology 

cf  Providence 247G1'  (Tillett) 

cf  World,  C'osmological  3 !()()"  (Orr) 

Costliness 723" 

Cotes 

cf  Sheepcote.  .  .         .  .  .  27.">7''  (Patch) 

Cottage 

cf  House 1434''  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Cotton 723"  (Masterman) 

Couch 723b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Abel ;>  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Abyss 2C.b  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Bed  .  .  .  .  .  .421b  (Eager) 

cf  Cain  .  ...  o3Sb  (Farr) 

Couching-place. .         ...  .  723b 

Coulter 

cf  Plow 2409"  (Patch) 

Council,  Councillor 723'1 

cf  Sanhedrin 2()SS'>  (Levertoff) 

Counsel,  Counsellor 723h 

Count 723b 

Countenance 723b  (Luering) 

cf  Face 10851'  (Luering) 

Counter-charm 

cf  Amulet 12Gb  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Charm 597b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Counterfeit 724"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Countervail    .  .  .  724" 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Country 724"  (Day) 

cf  Hill 1392"  (MastennaiM 

cf  Land.  .  ...  1S2G1'  (Day) 

cf  Lowland.  .  .  .  1934''  (Day) 

cf  Natural  Features   .  .2122"  (Dayj 

Countryman 724'' 

cf  Cousin 727" 

cf  Kinsman 1810"  (Pollard) 

Couple 72-I1' 

Coupling 72  I1' 

Courage 72  t!l 

Course 7241'  (Ileidel) 

cf  Wheel 30S21'  (Easton) 

Course  of  Priests  and  Le- 

vites 244(5''  (Wiener) 

Court 

cf  Gate,  East 11761'  (Caldecott) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Court  of  the  Gentiles 

cf  Temple,  Herod's  .  .  .2937"  (Caldecott;  ( >rr) 
Court  of  the  Sabbath 

cf  Covered  Way 733:i  (Hirsch) 

Court  of  the  Sanctuary  .  725"  (Caldecott ) 

Ezekiel's  temple 725b 

Herod's  temple 725!> 

Solomon's  temple 725a 

cf  Tabernacle 2889'-  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

cf  Temple 29321'  (Caldecott ;  Orr) 

Courts,  Judicial 7251'  (Hirsch) 

cf  Doctor SGGb 

cf  Lawyer 1859"  (Hirsch) 

cf  Sanhedrin 2GS81'  (LevertoiT) 

cf  Scribes 2704b  (Hirsch) 

Cousin 727" 

cf  Kinsman 1S10:1  (Pollard) 

Coutha  (Cut  ha) 770" 

Covenant 727"  (Berry) 

cf  Alliance 98b  (Cohon) 

Among  men 727"  (Berry) 

cf  Ark  of 242b  (Lotz) 

Between  God  and  men.728"  (Berry) 

Book  of 729b  (Mack) 

cf  Law  in  OT 1852"  (Rule) 

The  new 731"  (M'Caig) 

Christ's  use  at  Last 

Supper 731" 

Contrast  of  old  and 

new  in  2  Cor 733" 

To  Ezekiel 732b 

"  Inheritance  "     and 
"Testament".  .  .  .732" 

Mediator  of 732" 

New  v.  old 731" 

Relation  to  Ex  24..  .731'' 
Relation    to    Jer   31 

31-34 732b 

Use   in   Ep.  to    He- 
brews   731b 

In  NT 729"  (Estes) 

cf  Testament 2950" 

InOT 727"  (Berry) 

cf  Philosophy.  .       .  .2384''  (Rees) 


Covcnan  t — conlin  nc/l 

Of  Salt 720'-  (Pollard) 

cf  Salt 2664"  (Patch) 

Cover 733"  (Stearns; 

Coverdale,  Miles 9  IX"  (Hutchison; 

Covered  Way 733"  (Hirsch) 

Covering  for  the  Head  .  .733"  (Eager) 

Covert 7331' 

Covet 733b 

Covetousness.  .  .733b  (\\ .  Evans) 

cf  Family 10941'  (Caverno) 

Cow 734"  (Day) 

cf  Calf 542"  (Day) 

cf  Cattle T,83b  (Day) 

Co/ 734" 

Co/hi 734" 

Cozeba 

cf  Achzib 37>>  (Mack) 

Cracknel 734b 

Craft,  Craftiness,  Crafty  734"  (Jacobs) 

Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

Brickmaking 735" 

cf  Brick 520'>  (Patch) 

Ceramics 735b 

cf  Potter,  Pottery.  .  .2423''  (Patch) 
Dyeing  and  Cleansing  735b 

cf  Color 6741'  (Patch) 

(if  Dye,  Dyeing SS3b  (Patch) 

cf  Fuller 1148"  (Patch) 

Engraving 735b 

cf  Carving 58 lb  (Patch) 

Glass-making 73Ga 

cf  Glass 1233"  (Porter) 

cf  Goldsmith 1275"  (Patch) 

Grinding 736" 

cf  Mill,  Millstone.  .  .2052"  (Patch) 

cf  Iron 1492"  (Patch) 

Mason  work 73Ga 

cf  Mason 2007" 

cf  Mill,  Millstone  .  .2052"  (Patch) 

Mining 73G" 

(;f  Metals 2044a  (Patch) 

cf  Mine,  Mining.  .  .  .2056''  (Patch) 

Needle-work 735b 

cf  Embroidering.  .  .  .940"  (Patch) 

Oil-making 736" 

cf  Oil 2181b  (Patch) 

Painting 736" 

Paper-making 736b 

Perfume-making 736b 

cf  Perfume 2321b  (Patch) 

cf  Potter,  Pottery 2423b  (Patch) 

Spinning  and  weaving  .  736b 

cf  Spinning 2841"  (Patch) 

cf  Weaving 3077"  (Patch) 

Tanning 736b 

cf  Tanner 2908b  (Patch) 

cf  Tent-maker 2948" 

Tent-making 736b 

cf  Tent 2947b  (Patch) 

cf  Tools 2998''  (Easton) 

cf  Wine.  .  .  .308Gb  (Easton) 


32  IS 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Crafts — continued 

Wine-making 

of  Wine  Press 

Wood-working 

cf  Carpenter 

cf  Tools 

Craftsman 

Crag 

cf  Rock 

Crane 

Crashing 

Crates 

Creation 

cf  Anthropology 

cf  Earth 

Evolution 

Genesis  cosmogony  .  .  . 
cf     World,     Cosmo- 
logical 

Creator 

Creature 

Living 

Credit 

Creditor 

cf  Debt 

Creed 

Historical  Forms 

Apostles'  Creed 

Athanasian  Creed. . 

cf  Light 

Nicene  Creed 

Reformation  Creeds 

Scriptural  Basis 

Creek 

cf  Melita 

Creeping  Thing 

cf  Insects 

cf  Locust 

Cremation 

Crescens 

Crescents 

cf  Moon 

cf  Tires,  Round 

Crete 

cf  Caphtor 

cf  Cherethites 

cf  Fair  Havens 

cf  Gortyna 

cf  Phoenix 

Crib 

Cricket 

cf  Beetle 

cf  Insects 

cf  Locust 

Crier 

Crime 

Adultery 

cf  Adultery 

Assassination 

cf  Assassination .  . 


736b 

3086"  (Easion) 

735" 

580" 

2998b  (Easton) 

737"  (Patch) 

737-  (Day) 

2596°  (Day) 

737"  (Stratton-Porter) 

737" 

738" 

738"  (J.  Lindsay) 

1441'  (Marais) 

887"  (Day) 

739" 

738b 

3106a  (Orr) 

740"  (J.  Lindsay) 

740b  (Day) 

740b     (W.     L.     Walker); 

1906"  (Day) 
741a 

741a  (Betteridge) 
814"  (W.  Evans) 
741"  (Alexander) 

742b 
743a 

189  lb  (Pratt) 
742b 
743b 
741" 
743b 

2029b  (Allen) 
743b  (Day) 
1473a  (Day) 
1907b  (Day) 

744"  (Eager);  530"  (Eager) 
744a 
744b 

2081"  (Schenk) 
2986" 

744b  (Calder) 
5G8a  (Ewing) 
603"  (Ewing) 
1087b 
1280a 

239  la  (Calder) 
745b 
745b 

42.>  (Day) 
1473a  (Day) 
1907b  (Day) 
745b  (Eager) 
745b  (Hirsch) 
746a 

,63"  (Margolis) 
,74Ga 
.288"  (Hirsch) 


Crime — continued 

Bestiality 746" 

Blasphemy 746" 

cf  Blasphemy 485b  (Rees) 

Breach  of  covenant. . .746" 

Breach  of  ritual 746-' 

cf  Breach  of  Trust .  .  .  .3025" 

cf  Bribery 520b  (Kaiser) 

Burglary 746a 

cf  Debt 814"  (Wr.  Evans) 

cf  Deception 816a  (Farr) 

cf  Dishonesty 854b 

cf  Disobedience 854b  (Clippinger) 

cf  Divination 860"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Drunkenness 880b  (Edwards) 

Falsehood 746b 

False  swearing 746b 

Fornication 746b 

Forswearing 746b 

Harlotry 746b 

cf  Heresy 1377a  (Jacobs) 

Homicide 746b 

cf  Idolatry 1447b  (Cobern) 

Incest 747" 

Infanticide 747" 

Irreverence 747a 

Kidnapping 747a 

cf  Lying 1887"  (W.  Evans) 

cf  Malice 1972"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Manslaughter 1983b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Murder 2094a  (Hirsch) 

of  Oath 2172b  (Levertoff) 

Parents,       crimes 

against 747b 

Perjury 

cf  Oath 2172b  (LevertofT) 

Prophesying,  false  ....  747b 

Prostitution 747b 

Rape 747b 

Removing  landmarks 

cf  Landmark 1826b 

Reviling 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

Robbery 747b 

Sabbath-breaking 747b 

Seduction 748a 

cf  Seduce,  Seducer.  .2712a  (Edwards) 

cf  Slander 2814b  (Edwards) 

Sodomy 

cf  Unnatural  Vice. .  .748a 
Speaking  evil 748a 

cf  Evil  Speaking. .  .  .  1043"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Slander 2814b  (Edwards) 

Suicide 748a 

Theft 748a 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Thief 2972a  (Easton) 

Unchastity 748a 

cf  Lewdness 1880b  (Raffety) 

cf  Marriage 1996b  (Eager) 

cf  Uncleanness 3035b  (W7illiams) 

Unnatural  Vice 748a 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3219 


Crime— continued 

of  Usury 304 lb  (Pollard) 

Witnessing,  false 748b 

Whoredom 74Sb 

Crimson 

of  Colors 674b  (Patch) 

Cripple 748b 

of  Lame 18231'  (Maoalister) 

Crisping  Pins 748b 

of  Pin 2399"  (N.  Isaacs) 

Crispus 748b 

Critioism 

of  Cain .")38b  (Farr) 

of  High  Place 1390"  (Easton) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2446b  (Wiener) 

of  Sanctuary 2G86b  (Wiener) 

Criticism,       Archaeology 

and 226"  (Kyle) 

Criticism  of  the  Bible.  .  .748b  (Orr) 

Higher 751 a 

Lower  or  textual 749b 

Critioism       (The      Graf- 

Wellhausen     Hypothe- 
sis)   753b  (Easton) 

Crocodile 

cf  Dragon S73a  (Day) 

of  Leviathan 18G8b  (Day) 

Crocodile,  Land 1826b  (Day) 

cf  Chameleon 592a  (Day) 

Crook-backed 760b  (Macalister) 

Crooked 760b 

Crooked  Serpent 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Crop 760b 

Cross 760b  (Dosker) 

cf  Blood  and  Water  .  .489a  (Luering) 

Crucifixion 7Glb 

Discovery       of       true 
cross 761a 

Forms  of 761" 

Jesus'  references  to  ...  648b  (Orr) 

Symbolical  uses  of .  .  .  .761a 

Crossway 762a 

Crown 762a  (Raffety) 

cf  Garland 1175a  (Doolan) 

In  Greek 762b 

In  Hebrew 762a 

of  Joshua's 1748b  (Roberts) 

Of  thorns 763a  (Dosker) 

Use  and  significance. .  .  762b 
Crucifixion 761b  (Dosker) 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

Cruel,  Cruelty 763b  (Kaiser) 

Crumb 7G4a 

Cruse 764a  (Pollard) 

Cry,  Crying 764b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Crystal 764b  (Farr) 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2856a  (Fletcher) 

Cub 7Goa 

Cubit 7Goa  (Porter) 

cf  Measuring  Reed. .  .  .2016b 

of  Reed,  Measuring.  .  .254oa  (Orr) 


Cubit — continued 

cf  Stature.  .  .  .  .2850"  (Easton) 

cf  Temple 2931" ;  2935a;  2937"  (Calde- 

oott;  Orr) 

of  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079b  (Porter) 

Cuokow 76.5a  (Stratton- Porter) 

of  Sea-mew 2707a  (Stratton-Porter) 

Cucumber 7Gob  (Masterman) 

of  Food 1122*  (Eager) 

Cud 

cf  Chew  Cud GOo1'  (X.  Isaacs) 

Culture 76f)h 

Cumber 7G5b 

Cumi 

cf  Talitha  Cumi.  .       .  .2904* 


Cummin 


(Masterman);    1124a 


(Eager) 

Cun 7G5b 

Cunning 7G5b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Cup 766a  (Jacobs) 

cf  Blessing,  Cup  of. .  .  .  487b 

cf  Divination,  Cups  for  860a  (T.  W.  DaviesJ 

Cupbearer 7G6b  (Downer) 

Cupboard 7GGb 

Curdle 70Gb 

Cure 7G6b  (Macalister) 

Curious 767a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

Current  Money 2081a  (Betteridge) 

Curse 767a  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Heredity 1376a  (Easton) 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

Curtain 7G7b 

cf  Tabernacle,  Curtains 

of 2S87b  (Caldecott ;   Orr) 

Gush  (ethnological) 7G7b  (Pinches) 

cf  Africa G8a  (Pinches) 

cf  Eden 897b  (Wright) 

cf  Ethiopia 1031a  (Cobcrn) 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2898b  (Pinches) 
Gush  (person) 7G8b 

cf  Cushi 7G8b  (Boyd) 

Cushan 768b  (Boyd) 

Cushan-rishathaim 7G8b  (Baur) 

Cushi 7G8b  (Boyd) 

Cushion 7G9a  (Downer) 

Cushite 7G9a  (Boyd) 

Cushite  Woman 7G9a  (Boyd) 

Custody 7G9a 

Custom 7G9a     (Betteridge);     7G9b 

(Farr) 
Cut,  Cutting 7G9b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Concision G96b 

cf     Cuttings     in     the 

Flesh 770a  (Eager) 

Cut  Asunder 316b 

Cuth 77()a  (Pinches) 

Cutha 770a 

Cuthah 

cf  Cuth .  .  .  .  770a  (Pinches) 


3220 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Cuthoan,  Cuthite 

cf  Cuth 770"  (Pinches) 

cf  Samaritans 2073b  (Ewing) 

Cutting  Asunder 

cf  Asunder 310"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Punishments 2f)04b  (Ilirschj 

Cutting  Off 

cf  Punishments 2">04h  (llirschj 

Cuttings  in  the  Flesh..  .  .  77():'  (Eager) 

cf  Mark  (noun) 19X0"  (Pratt) 

C'yamon 770b 

cf  Jokneam 1727a  (Ewing) 

Cymbal 

cf  Music 2101"  (Millar) 

Cypress o09b  (Masterman) 

cf  Holm  Tree 14()5n  (Masterman) 

Cyprians 770'*  (Fortune) 

cf  Asiarch 2X2"  (M.  O.  Evans: 

Cyprus 771 n  (Tod) 

Church  in 772" 

Early  history 771'' 

Geography 77 1-1 

And  the  (1  reeks 77 11' 

And  the  Jews 772:l 

cf  Kittiin.  .  1S141'  (Pinches) 


Later  history 

Name 

cf  Paphos . . . 
Products .  .  .  . 
And  Rome .  . 


(Tod) 


Cyrama  (Kirama) 1X11" 

Cyrthio 7721'  (Kyle) 

Cyrenian 7731' 

cf  Gyrene 772b  (Kyle 

cf  Lucius 1935"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Simon 279")'' 

Cyrenius  (Quirinius) .  .  .  .  2~>1  ~>b 
Cyria 773b 

cf  Lady is-Jl1- 

Cvrus.  . 


(S.  F.  Hunter) 


Babylonian  Chronicle  .  774b 
Babylonian  records  of 

reign 774b 

His  count  ry 773b 

Cylinder  of 77  "v 

Genealogy  of 773b 

cf  Israel,  History  of. .  .  ir>20"  (Orelli) 

And  the  Jews 770b 

Massagetae 77">b 

His  origin 773b 

In  Persia 770b 

cf  Persians 2330"  (Tisdall) 

Reputation  of 770" 

Sacae,  Berbices 775h 

Dabareh  (Daberath) .  .  .  .770" 

Dabbeshcth 770" 

Daberath 770" 

Dabria 770" 

Dacubi 770" 

cf  Akkub 89a 

cf  Dakubi .  .  .  .777a 


Dadda 

cf  Hadad.  

1313b  (Hovcy) 

Daddeus  

770" 

Dadu 

cf  Hadad  

1313b  (Hovpy) 

Dagger 

cf  Armor  

251"  (Nicol) 

Dagon  

770b  (Margolis) 

cf  Gods.  . 

1271"  (Reeve) 

Daily  

777"  (W.  Evans) 

Daily  Offering  or  Sacri 

- 

fice 

cf  Sacrifice  

20.11"  (Williams. 

Dainties,  Dainty  Meats 

777"  (Eager) 

cf  Delicate  

X20"  (W.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Food  

1121b  (Eager) 

Daisan  

777" 

Dakubi  .  . 

777" 

Dalaiah  (Delaiah).  . 

819b 

Dalan  

777b 

Dale,  King's  

777b  (Masterman) 

cf  King's  Garden  .... 

1X08"  (Masterman) 

cf  Vale,  Valley  

304.-)"  (Day) 

Daleth  

777b 

cf  Alphabet.  . 

103b  (Richardson) 

Dully  

777b 

Dahnanutha 

cf  Magadan  

1901b  (Ewing) 

Dalmatia  

777b  (Tod) 

cf  Illyricum  

1449b  (Tod) 

Dalphon  

778s 

Dam  

77X" 

Damage  

77X"  (Breslich) 

Damans  

77X" 

Damascenes  

77X" 

Damascus  

77X"  (C.  H.  Thomson) 

Description  of  city.  .  . 

778b 

History  

779" 

Aramaean  kingdom 

779b 

Early  period  

779" 

Middle  period  

7SO" 

Location    and    natura 

1 

features  

77Xb 

Name  

77X" 

Dammesek  Eliezer 

cf  Kliezer  

929h  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Damn,             Damnation 

, 

Damnable  

7X()b  (Rees) 

cf  Kschatology  (NT). 

979b  (Vosi 

cf  Judgment  

1777"  (Jacobs) 

Damsel  

7X1" 

Dan  (city)  

7X2"  (Ewing) 

cf  Laish  

1821>> 

cf  Vedan  

304Gb  (Fulton) 

Dan  (person  and  tribe;  . 

7X1"  (Ewing) 

Danite  raid  

7Xlb 

cf  Micah  

2045b  (Lees) 

Name  

78  lb 

Territory  occupied  by 

tribe  

781b 

Tribe  

781b 

cf  Reanvur*  1 

2534b 

GENERAL  INDEX 


Dancing 
of  Games 

lit)')1'  (Smith) 

Dates 

790a 

1123"  (Eager) 
2235"  (Mastorman) 
790"  (Booohen 

1X17"  (Beecherj 
790" 
790" 
790"  (Pollard) 
1  232" 

2551"(E.  D.andX.  Isaacs) 
7!)0''(  Woir;;  X"  (Beoohen; 
255b  (Xicol) 
23"  (W.  W.  Davies) 
450"  (Mastorman) 
1014"  (Masterman) 
021'  (Beecher) 
794b 
794b 
794b 
7901' 
793" 

793a 
793" 
23b 

173  11'  (Weir) 
1759b  (Weir) 
1791"  (Masterman) 
793b 
793b 
793b 
794" 
24" 
20331'  (Wallace) 
790b 
2120"  (Roberts) 
794b 
2215b  (Conder) 
795" 

795b 

795b 
795b 

79")" 

cf  Food  
cf  Palm  Tree  .  . 
Dathan  .  .  .  . 
And  Ahiram 
cf  Korah  
I  )at  hema  
1  )aub 

Dandle      .         

.  7X2" 
7X2"  (Breslich) 

Danger 

Daniel 

7X2b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Bel  and  the  Dragon.  . 
Early  life.  . 
Interpreter  of  dreams 
Interpreter  of  signs.  . 
Official  of  kings  

.  428" 
.  7X2b 
.  7S21' 
.  7X3" 
.  7X3" 

Daughter, 
of  Girl 

Seen-  of  visions  
rf  Seventy  Weeks.  .  .  . 
cf    Susanna,    the    Ilii- 
tory  of  
Daniel,  Book  of  
Apocryphal  additions 
Canonicity  
Divisions  

.  7X3" 
.2744"  (Orrj 

.2872b  (T.  \V.  Davies) 
.7X3b  (R.  D.  Wilson; 

.  7X7" 
.  7s:i'- 
783b 

.  7X(>b 

7X7" 
.  7X7" 
784b 

785b 
785b 
785" 
784b 
785" 
786b 
ISO.')1'  (Stalker) 
784* 
784a 
784b 
787b 
787b 
787b 
787h  (Ewing) 

788" 
788° 
7XX> 
788a 
2789a 
788"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 
788b 
788a 
788b 
233(>b  (Tisdall) 
789"  (Jov) 
303b;  310"  (Maunder) 
2402b  (Macalister) 
789" 
789" 
1934h 
789"  (Margolis) 
789b 
789b 
251"  (Nicol) 

260" 
148"  (Marais) 
789"  (Breslich) 

Daughter-in-Law 

cf    Relationships 
Family  .  . 
David 

of  Absalom  
Bethlehemite  
Buildings  of  
of  Cave  of  Adullam    . 
Domestic  life  
Domestic  trouble 
Wives  and  children  . 
Early  years  
In  exile  
Alliance  with  Philis- 
tines   
As  an  outlaw  
Flight  of  
Friendship     of     .Jona- 
than   

Doctrines  

Angels  
Resurrection  
Genuineness 

As  to  historical  mis 
statements  
As  to  language  .... 
As  to  miracles  
As  to  predictions  ,  . 
As  to  text 

Interpretation  
cf  Kingdom  of  Clod    . 

Purpose  
Tiiity  
Danites  
Dan-jaan  
Dannah  
Daphne  
Dara 
cf  Darda  
Darda  
Dare 

cf  Judah,  Kingdom  of. 
At  Keilah  

Kingship  

Civil  war  
Foreign  conquests  .  . 
Removal  of  ark  .  .  .  . 
Lament  of  .'  
cf  Mephibosheth  
Name  and  genealogy.  . 
cf  Xathan  
Officials  

of  Palestine  

Darius                             .  . 

Personal  character.  .  .  . 
A  u  t  h  o  r  s  li  if)       of 
Psalms 

Darius  Hystaspes.  .  .  . 
Darius  the  Mede.  .  .  . 
Darius  Xothus  
cf  Persians  

Complexity  of  char- 
acter   
Courage  

of  Eclipse 

Estimate  of  Chroni- 
cles 

cf  Plagues  
Darkly 

Family  relat  ions.  .  .  . 
Friendships  
Nobility.  .  . 
Strategy.  . 
of  Philistines  
of  Psalms,  Book  of.  .  .  . 
cf  Samuel,  Books  of.  .  . 
of  Saul 

790b 
796b 
796" 
796" 

2379"  (Conder) 
24X9"  (Sampey) 
2G79b  (Geden) 
269X1'  (Weir) 
791b 
792" 
792b 

Darkon               

cf  Lo/on  

Dark  Sayings  
Darling 

Dart            .        ... 

Armor    

Dart-snake 
cf  Arrowsnako 

Service  of  Saul  
First  exploits. 

Darwinism 

Dash  .  . 

Flight  of  David    . 

3222 


GENERAL  INDEX 


David — continued 
Service  of  Saul — continued 
Jealousy  of  Saul ....  792" 
Jonathan  and  David.792h 
cf  Temple 2930b  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

David,  City  of 

cf  Zion 31501'  (Masterman) 

David,  Root  of 797h 

cf  Root  of  Jesse 2623b 

David,  Tower  of 

cf  Jerusalem 16071'  (Masterman) 

Dawn,  Dawning 797b  (Porter) 

Day  of  Atonement 

cf  Atonement,  Day  of  .324'-  (Mollor) 

Day  before  the  Sabbath  .  7981'  (Hirsch) 

Day,  Break  of 

cf  Break  of  Day f)17h 

Day  of  Christ 

cf  Lord's  Day 1919"  (Easton) 

Day  (figurative) 798"  (Dosker) 

cf  Third 2973" 

Day  (general) 797b  (Gerberding) 

cf  Afternoon 6Sb  (Wolf) 

cf  Time 2982"  (Porter) 

Day  of  Jehovah 

cf  Lord's  Day 1919"  (Easton) 

Day,  Joshua's  Long 
cf   Bcth-horon,    Battle 

of 44b'b  (Maunder) 

Day  of  Judgment 

cf  Judgment,  Last.  .  .  .  1777h  (Easton) 

Day,  Last 799"  (Orr) 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT.  .972"  (Orr) 
cf  Last  Time 1840a  (Vos) 

Day  of  the   Lord   (Jeho- 
vah)   799"  (Dosker) 

cf  Eschatology  of  NT.  .979h  (Vos) 
cf  Eschatology  of  OT .  .972"  (Orr) 
cf  Judgment,  Last       .  .  1777b  (Easton) 
cf  Parousia 2249"  (Easton) 

Day,  Lord's 
cf  Lord's  Day 1919"  (Easton) 

Day  and  Night 798"  (Wolf) 

cf  Night 2143h  (Dosker) 

cf  Noon,  Noonday.  .  .  .21.r)f)a 

Day's  Journey 799b  (Si  rat  ton-Porter) 

Days,  Last 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT .  .972"  (Orr) 
cf  Last  Time 1840"  (Vosj 

Daysman 799b  (A.  W.  Evans) 

Dayspring 799b  (Trevor) 

Day-star 800a  (Maunder) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Day,  That  (The) 
cf  Day  of  the  Lord. .  .  .799"  (Dosker) 

Deacon,  Deaconess 400"  (Heidel) 

cf  Bishop 478b  (Dosker) 

cf  Church 650b  (Lambert) 

cf  Church  Government  G53b  (Forrester) 

cf  Ministry 2()f>9b  (T.  M.  Lindsay) 

cf  Woman 3103b  (Pratt) 

Dead..  .  ,800b  (Macalister) 


Dead,  Baptism  for  the  .  .399a  (Recs) 
Dead  Body 

cf  Corpse 722b  (Luering) 

Deadly 801a  (Luering) 

Dead  Sea,  The 801a  (Wright) 

Climate 807" 

Constitution  of  water  .806b 

Former  area 801b 

cf  Gomorrah 1277a  (Wright) 

History 810" 

cf  Jordan 1732b  (Wright) 

cf  Jordan  Valley 1735"  (Wright) 

Level  in  early  historic 

times 802b 

Geological  evidence .  803" 
Soundings  in  1849. .804b 

Miscellaneous 807b 

Ain  Jidi 807b 

Fortress  of  Masada.  808a 

Jebel  Usdum 808b 

Plain  of  the  Jordan.  807b 

Vale  of  Siddim 809b 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2223b  (Cobern) 

Present  area 801b 

Roads 8()7b 

cf  Salt 2664"  (Patch) 

cf  Siddim 2784"  (Wright) 

cf  Sodom 28211'  (Wright) 

cf  Zoar 3154"  (Wright) 

Dead,  State  of  the 

cf  Hades 1314"  (Vos) 

Deaf 811"  (Macalister) 

cf  Dumb 8S2a  (Macalister) 

Deal 81  la  (Broslich) 

Dear,  Dearly 81  la  (Jacobs) 

Dearth 

cf  Famine 1097"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Death 811"        (Macalister;      Ba 

vinck) 

cf  Heredity 1376"  (Easton) 

cf  Immortality 1458b  (Orr) 

Physiological    and    fig- 
urative views 81  la  (Macalister) 

cf  Psychology 2498b  (Marais) 

cf  Sheol 2761a  (Orr) 

Theological  view 81  lb  (Bavinck) 

Conception     of     sin 

and  death 811b 

Israelitish    dread    of 

death 812" 

Non-Christian  death  812b 
Spiritual           signifi- 
cance  812b 

Death,  Body  of 493a  (Dosker) 

Death,  Second 813" 

cf  Eschatology  of  NT.  979b  (Vos) 

Debate 813" 

cf  Makebates 1968b 

Debir  (person) 813b 

Debir  (place) 813b  (Masterman) 

cf  Negeb 2130a  (Masterman) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3223 


Deborah Sl.'ib  (Margolis) 

of  Sisera 28121'  (Schenk) 

Deborah,  Song  of 

cf  Jacl 1558"  (Schcnk) 

Debt,  Debtor 814"  (W.  Evans) 

Figurative 814b 

NT  teachings 814b 

OT  practice 8l4b 

cf  Surety 2872"  (Reeve) 

Decalogue 

cf      T(>ii      Command- 
ments  2944b  (Sampey) 

Decapolis 815a  (lowing) 

cf  Gadara ll.r)2b  (Ewing) 

Decay 815"  (Farr) 

Decease  in  NT 81 5b 

Decease  in  OT  and  Apoc.  81 5a  (Luering) 

cf  Corpse 722b  (Luering) 

cf  Death 812"  (Bavinck) 

cf  Hades 1314b  (Vos) 

cf  Sheol 2761"  (Orr) 

Deceit 815b 

Deceivableness,  Deceive. 81  (3"  (Farr) 

Decently 816a 

Decision 810"  (Fortune) 

cf  Augury 331"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Decision,  Valley  of 

cf  Jehoshaphat ,  Valley 

of 1583"  (Masterman) 

Declaration,  Declare.  .  .  .816b 

Decline 816b 

Dedan,  Dedanites 816b  (Orr) 

Dedicate 810b 

cf  Consecration 7()3b  (Rees) 

cf  Sanctification 2681b  (Rail) 

Dedication,  Feast  of .  .  .  ,816b  (Orr) 
Deed 817a  (Edwards) 

cf  Accord 33b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Deep 817a 

cf  Abyss 26b  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Deep  Sleep 2817b  (Easton) 

Deer 817a  (Day) 

cf  Gazelle 1179a  (Day) 

cf  Goat 1249a  (Day) 

cf  Roe,  Roebuck 2597a  (Day) 

Defame 818a 

Defect 818a  (Fortune) 

Defence 

cf  Courts,  Judicial.  .  .  .725b  (Hirsch) 
Defenced 

cf  Fortification 1136b  (Nicol) 

Defer 818" 

Defile,  Defilement 818a  (Crannell) 

Defilement  in  NT 81 8b 

Defilement  in  OT S18b 

cf  Totcmism 3000a  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Defy 819a 

Degenerate 819s 

Degree 819"  (Edwards) 

Degrees,  Songs  of 819b       (Sampey);        812b 

(Maunder) 


Dchaites.  .  .  .Si** 

Dehort 819b 

Dekar 819b 

cf  Ben-deker 434b 

Dclaiah.  ...  819b 

Delay 820"  (Breslich) 

Delectable 820" 

Delicacy 820a 

Delicate 820"  (W.  W.  Davies) 

Deliciously 820" 

Delight.  .  ,  820"  (\V.  L.  Walker; 

Delightsome 820b 

Delilah.  .  .  820b  (I  Jeer-hen 

cf  Samson 2675"  (Robinson; 

Deliver 820b  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Delos 821"  (Harry) 

Deluge  of  Noah,  The. .  .  .821b  (Wright) 

American    Indian    tra- 
ditions   822b 

cf  Ark  of  Noah 246"  (Wright) 

In     Babylonian     liter- 
ature  374"  (Rogers) 

Babylonian  traditions . 823" 

Biblical  account 821b 

Chinese  account 822b 

Cuneiform  tablets ....  823b 

Druid  legend 822b 

Egyptian  tradition..  .  .822" 

cf  Flood 1120"  (Day) 

cf  Gopher  Wood 1279b  (Masterman) 

Greek  tradition 822b 

Indian  tradition 822a 

cf  Noah 2153"  (Wright) 

"Noah's  Log  Book".  .822" 

Was  flood  universal  ?  .  824b 
Extent     of      human 

race 824b 

Geological  evidence  825b 

Glacial  epoch 824b 

Delusion 826"  (Edwards) 

Demand 826" 

Dcmas 826" 

cf  Apostasy 202a  (Pratt) 

Demetrius S26a       (Kinsella) ;        827h 

(Banks) 

Demetrius  1 826a 

cf   Antiochus  Epiph- 

anes 159b  (Harry) 

cf  Bacchides 375b  (Breslich) 

cf  Maccabaeus 1946"  (Hutchison) 

Demetrius  II 826b 

Demetrius  III 827" 

cf  John,  Epistles  of  ...  1718b  (Law) 

cf  Tryphon 3027"  (Angus) 

Demon,    Demoniac,    Dc- 

monology 827b  (Sweet) 

cf  Accommodation..  .  .33"  (Sweet) 

Definition 827b 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1640"  (Orr) 

cf  Magic,  Magician.  .  .1964b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Mary  Magdalene.  .  .2003b  (Sweet) 

NT  demonology 828" 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Demon,  Demoniac,  Demonology — continued 

ef  Night-monster 21431'  (Sweet) 

Origin        of        Biblical 

demonology cS27h 

Animism S271' 

Babylonian  ideas.  .  .82!)" 
Evolutionary  theory  S27 ' 

cf  Azazel 342''  (Moller) 

cf     Communion 

with  Demons  .  .OS!")1'  (Sweet) 
Heathen  deities.  .  .  .828" 

Polytheism S2S' 

Demophon S29b 

Den 8291'  (Day) 

cf  Cave 080"  (Day) 

Denarius 830"  (Porter) 

ef  Money 207(5"  (Porter) 

Denounce S30" 

Deny 830"  (Gray) 

cf  Peter,  Simon 23 IS1'  (Cray) 

Depart  Asunder 3H51'  (S.  V.  Hunter) 

Deposit <S3();i  (Jacobs) 

Depth 314'' 

cf  Abyss.  .  ...  .2(>>>  (T.  Lewis) 

Deputy.  .  .  .'.  .S3()h  (Heidel) 

cf  Government 12S7"  (Heidel) 

Derbe 8301'  (Cal<ler) 

cf  Lycaonia 10  121'  (Calder) 

Derision 83 11' 

Descend S3 11'  (Jacobs) 

Descent  of  Jesus 

cf     Apocryphal     Gos- 
pels  195"  (Hutchison) 

Describe S31b  (W.  W.  Davies) 

Descry.  .  . S31h 

Desert  .  .  .  .S3 11'  (Day) 

cf  Natural  Features  .  .2122"  (Day) 

Desire S321'  (Breslich) 

Desire  of  All  Nations..  .  .S32b  (Gray) 

Desolate 833"  (Edwards) 

Desolation,   Abomination 

of lGa  (Hirsch) 

Despair 833l>  (Edwards; 

Despite,  Despiteful S331'  (Ed  ward  si 

Dessaxi S33b 

Destiny  (Meni) S331' 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder; 

cf  Meni 2033" 

Destroyer 833b  (Edwards) 

Destruction 834'1 

cf  Abaddon 2b  (Beecher) 

Destruction,  City  of  (Hc- 

liopolis  or  City  of  the 

Sun) 

cf  Astronomy 301b  (Maunder) 

cf  Ir-ha-heres 1491a  (Kyle) 

cf  On 2193"  (Kyle) 

Determinate 834"  (Edwards) 

Determine S34a  (Fortune) 

Detestable  Things 834"  (Margolis) 

cf  Abomination 6b  (Breslich);    15b  (Eager; 

Deuel .  .  .  .  S341' 


Deutero-canonical  Books  834b  (Fortune) 

cf  Apocrypha 17Sb  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Canon  of  OT f)~)4a  (Robinson) 

NT  Books S3f)a 

OT  Books S3  lb 

Deuteronomy 835b  (Robinson) 

Analysis 83ob 

Authorship 83(>b 

History  appropri- 
ate to  Moses' 

time 83Gb 

Language;  assumes 
Moses'  author- 
ship   S37a 

Military  law  book  .  .  S37a 

Critical  theory S3Sb 

Double  allusions S37:i 

cf  Government 12SS1'  (Heidel) 

cf  High  Place 139()a  (East on) 

cf  Hilkiah 1392a  (Wallace) 

Influence     on     Israel's 

history S37b 

cf  Josiah 1753"  (Gcnung) 

Late  date  of 17f)2b  (Genung) 

cf  Law  in  OT.  .  .  .  1S/U1'  (Rule) 

cf  Moses 2()8S>>       (Kyle);         2090" 

(Kyle) 

Name 835b 

Object  of  book S3.")1' 

c!'  Palestine 221 11'  (Conder) 

Ruling  ideas 836" 

Relations  of  ( !od  and 

Israel S3(V 

Unity S3(ih 

Device S4O  (Edwards) 

Devil 

cf  Demon S27b  (Swe<>t) 

cf  Satan 2693b  (Sweet) 

Devoted  Things 

cf  Curse 7(57"  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Dedicate 816b 

Devotion,  Devotions.  .  .  .840 

Devout 840"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Rome 2622"  (Allen) 

Dew 840b  (Joy) 

Diadem S41"  (Raffety) 

cf  Crown 7G2"  (Raffety) 

Dial  of  Ahaz,  The 841"  (Maunder) 

Analysis  and   meaning 

of  the  sign S42a 

"  Dial,"  signifies  a  stair- 
case   S41b 

Fifteen    "songs   of  de- 
grees"   S42b 

Hezekiah's  sickness  and 

the  sign 841" 

Sign,  a  real  miracle.  .  .  S41b 
Diamond 
cf  Stones,  Precious. .  .  .2856a  (Fletcher) 

Diana 842b  (Banks) 

Diana,  Temple  of 901b  (Banks) 


GENERAL  JXDKX 


3225 


Diaspora 
cf  Dispersion  

.  855" 

(Nicol) 

(Ewing) 

'  (Smith; 
(Richardson) 

Dionysia  8  H)'>  (Harry; 
Greater  festivals  S5();L 
Rural  festival.             .  .8l9b 
Dionysius.  .  .  .                .  .  .  S50"  (Harrv) 

Diblah      ... 

84  31' 

843b 

Diblath 
cf  Diblah.  . 
Diblathaim 
cf  Almon-diblathaim  . 
Dibon,  Dibon-gad.  .  .    . 

.843'' 
.843'' 

Dionysus  (Bacchus;  850"  (Harry; 
cf  Bacchus  370"  (Reesj 
cf    Hellenism,     Hellen- 
ist    1371"  (Heidel; 
Dioscorint  hius  .          8501' 
cf  Cal(>ndar                       541b  (Porter) 

Dibri  

843'' 

cf  Time                             .2981''  (Port  en 

Dice-playing 

1  1  ds: 

Dioscuri  S51"  (Maunder; 

Dictionaries  
Art  and  music  
Bible  diet  ionaries  .... 
Bibliography 

.843b 

.847'' 
.844" 
844b 

cf  Sign  2789"  (Stuart  i 

Diotrephes  851" 
cf  John,    The   Epistles 
of  1718'-  (Law; 

Dip                                          851"  (Breslich; 

Biographical 

sis- 

Diphath                                 851" 

Comparative  religion  . 
Denominational       di( 
t  ionaries 

si.-,1' 

840" 

cfRiphath..                .  .2594b 
Disallow                       .         .851" 

Disannul 
cf  \nnul                            137b  (Hirsch) 

Geography  
Language  .  . 

.848a 
848a 

Disappoint                           .851" 

Philosophical  847" 
Religious     encyclopae- 
dias    845" 
Universal     encyclopae- 
dias                                840" 

Discern                                 851"  (Dosker; 

Discernings  of  Spirits  .  .  .851''  (Fortune) 
cf  Spiritual  Gifts  2843b  (Lambert) 
Disciple                           .    .851''  (Trever) 

Discipline  852" 
cf  Chastisement  598b  (Jacobs) 
Discomfit,   Discomfiture.  852"  (Clippinger) 
I  )i-;course                               852" 

Didache 

387b 

(A.    T.    Robertson); 
):i    (T.  M.  Lindsay); 
[a  (Lowndes) 

1  (Cowan) 

'  (DeMent) 
872b 

(W.  L.  Walker; 
(M.  O.  Evans  i 

'  (Rail; 

(Gerberding) 
(Masterman; 

(Masterman; 

(Ewing) 
(N.  Isaacs) 

(Eager; 
(Eager) 

(Cowan) 

39 

48 

cf      Literature,      Sub- 
apos  .  .                          1898 

Discover                               852"  (Stearns) 

Discrepancies,  Biblical  .  .852b  (Van  Pelt) 
Alleged     discrepancies 
as  to  doctrine  853b 
Alleged      discrepancies 

,,o  f,^  fnnt                                   Si  ','•{" 

cf      Teach,      Teachei 
Teaching  
Didrachma  
Didymus  

.  2923 

.848'' 
848'' 

Die    

848b 

.84S1' 
.849a 

Causes     of     discrepan- 
cies                               853b 

Diet  .  . 

Dig.  . 

Criticism  v.  inerrancy  852b 
Nature  of  arguments  .852'' 
Significance  for  faith  .  .  85  1-1 
cf  Virgin-birth  of  Jesus 
Christ  3054"  (Sweet! 
Discus  854"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
cf  Games  1108b  (Smith) 
Disease,  Diseases  85  4b  (Macalister) 
cf  Sick,  Sickness  2783"  (Macalister) 
Diseases  of  the  Eye  l()70a  (Macalister) 
Dish  854b  (Downer) 
Dishan,  Dishon  854b 
Dishonesty  854b 
Disobedience,     Disobedi- 
ent                                    854b  (Clippinger) 

Dignities,  Dignity  
Dike  

.849" 
849" 
1781' 
840" 

849" 

.S49:' 

130" 

.  849a 
.849a 
2593' 

.843'' 
849b 
849'' 
849h 
8491' 
2013' 

1904' 

cf  Justice  

Diklah 

Dilean 

Diligence,   Diligent,   Dil 
gent  ly  
Dill 
cf  Anise 

Diminish  
Dimnah  
cf  Rimmon  (place;;..  . 
Dimon,  Dimonah 
cf  Dibon  
Dinah 

cf  Obedience                   .2175"  (Clippinger) 

Dinaites 

cf  Sin  .  .                2798b  (McConnell; 
Disorderly  855"  (Dosker) 
Dis])atch  855" 

Dinhabah 

Dinner  

cf  Meals 

Dispensation                     855" 

Diognetus,  Epistle  to 
cf      Literature,      Sub 
anos  .  . 

Dispersion,  The  855"  (Nicol) 

Alexandrian  Judaism.  .857" 
Among  Greeks  nroner.858" 

GENERAL  INDEX 


Dispersion,  The — continued 

In  Asia  Miner 857h 

Causes 855b 

Eastern  Dispersion..  .  .  85Ga 
Egyptian  Dispersion  .  .  S5G" 
Importance    of    dis- 
covery   85Gb 

Jewish     Temple     at 

Syene S5Gb 

Testimony    of    Ara- 
maic papyri 85(>a 

Extent So.")1' 

(lolah  and  Diaspora. .  .855" 

Influence 859* 

Internal  organization. . Sf)!)!l 
In  Italy,  Gaul,  Spain, 

and  North  Africa .  .  .  S58b 
Jews  and  Hellenism. . .  857a 
Nations,  Dispersion  of 

cf  Babel 349"  (Clay) 

cf  Table  of  Nations  .  2S<  IS1'  (Pinches) 

Numbers Xf)Xb 

Proselytism 858b 

Purpose Soo1' 

Roman  Dispersion.  .  .  .858" 
Influence     in     early 

Roman  Empire..  .  S5Xb 
Jews         and         first 

Caesars S58b 

cf     Roman     Empire 

and  Christianity .  .  2(>()0"  (Angus) 

Septuagint 8571' 

cf  Septuagint 2722'  (Thackeray) 

In  Syria So?' 

Disposition 859b 

Disputation 859b 

Distaff Xf,9b 

cf  Spinning 2841a  (Patch) 

Distil 859b 

Distinctly <Sr>9b 

Ditch 859b  (Clippinger) 

Divers,  Diverse,  Diversi- 
ties  S59b  (BreslicrO 

Dives 

cf  Hades 1315"  (Vos) 

cf  Lazarus I860"  (Trever) 

Divide 800"  (Breshch) 

Divide  Asunder 31  Gb  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Divination 860a  (T.  W.  Davies ) ;  29Gb 

(Maunder) 

In  ancient  Greece 1300b  (Fairbanks) 

Bible  and  divination.  .861a 
Divination  and  proph- 
ecy   8G2b 

Fundamental    assump- 

tion 8GOb 

Astrology S(K)1' 

cf  Astrology 296b  (Maunder) 

Hepatoscopy 8GOb 

Oracles 8GOb 

Origin  of  word 8GOb 

cf  Greece,  Religion  in  .  1301a  (Fairbanks) 


Divination — continued 

cf  Inquire 1472b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Kinds 8GOa 

cf  Augury 331a  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Legitimate     and     ille- 
gitimate   860b 

cf  Liver 1905b  (Luering) 

cf  Magi,  The 1962"  (Tisdall) 

cf  Magic,  Magician.  .  .  19G4b  (T.  W.  Davies) 
Modes  of  divination..  . 8Glb 
Condemned  methods  862a 

Dreams 8Glb 

Ilj'dromaney 862" 

Sortilege 8G11' 

cf  Oracle 219Sb  (Easton) 

cf  Orator 2199a  (Ed wards) 

cf  Poetry,  Hebrew.  .  .  .2413b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Prophecy 246(ia  (Orelli) 

cf  Python 251  lb  (Easton) 

cf  Vault 304(>b 

cf  Wise  Men 309Gb  (Easton) 

cf  Witch 3097"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Divine,  Diviner 

cf  Astrology 29Gb  (Maunder  j 

cf  Augury.  .  .  .  .  .331"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Divination SGO"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Divine  Names 

cf  God,  Names  of 12G41'  (Mack) 

Divine  Visitation 

cf  Punishments 2f>()4b  (Hirsch) 

Division 8G3a  (Edwards) 

Divorce  in  NT 865"  (Caverno) 

Christ's  teachings 8G5b 

cf  Family 1094b  (Caverno) 

cf    Hammurabi,    Code 

of. 1330a  (Ungnad) 

cf  Jesus  Christ lG53b  (Orr) 

cf  Law  in  NT 1845"  (M'Caig) 

cf  Marriage 1999"  (Eager) 

Paul's  teachings SGG" 

cf  Polygamy 2416a  (Caverno) 

cf  Purity 2509"  (Caverno) 

Remedies  for  marriage 

ills 866b 

cf  Family 1094b  (Caverno) 

Divorce  in  OT 863b  (W.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Adultery 03"  (Margolis) 

Divorce4          applicable 

only  to  wives 864a 

Grounds  for  divorce..  .864a 

Law 8G3b 

Position  of  woman..  .  .  863b 
Process  and  exceptions  864a 

Di-zahab 866b  (Ewing) 

Docetism 

In  1  John 1713"  (Law) 

Doctor 866b 

cf  Education 900b  (Meyer) 

cf  Rabbi 2522a  (Pollard) 

cf  Scribes 2704b  (Hirsch) 

Doctrine 866b  (Rees) 

Apostolic  doctrines..  .  .867a 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3227 


Doct  rine — conlin  tied 

Beginnings  of  dogma   .807" 

of  Dogma 80S'1  (Rees) 

Christ's    teachings    in- 
formal   807" 

Docua 

of  Dok SOS'1  (Hutchison) 

Dodai 

cf  Dodo SG7h 

Dodanim Sti7'' 

cf  Rodanim 2~>97" 

Dodavahu SG71' 

Dodo,  Dodai SG7b 

Doc 

cf  Deer 81 7*  (Day) 

cf  Roe,  Roebuck 2597"  (Day) 

Doeg S67b  (X.  Isaacs) 

Dog S67b  (Day) 

cf  Price...  ...2439" 

Dogma .  .SG8"  (Rees) 

cf     Comparative     Re- 
ligion   G93b  (Tisdall) 

Dok S6S1'  (Hutchison) 

Doleful 8G8b 

Dolphin 

cf  Badger 376b  (Day) 

Dominion S69a 

cf  Angel 132b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Doom 869"  (Van  Pelt ) 

Door 869"  (Downer) 

cf  Achor 37a  (Beecher) 

cf  Gate 1175b  (Boston) 

cf  House 1434''  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Shepherd 2763a  (Patch) 

Doorkeeper S69a  (Hovey) 

cf  Port,  Porter 2422a  (Easton) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites  .  2446b  (Wiener) 
Doorpost 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Dophkah 869b 

cf        Wanderings        of 

Israel 3064"  (Conder) 

Dor,  Dora SG9b  (Porter) 

Dorcas S70a  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Dorymenes S70a 

Dositheus S70!l  (Hutchison) 

Dotaea S70a 

Dote S70b 

Dothaim 870b 

Dothan 870b  (Ewing) 

Double S70b  (Clippinger) 

Doubt 871b  (Gray) 

cf  Disputation 859b 

Dough 

cf  Bread 514b  (Eager) 

Dove 87  la  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Pigeon 239o"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Dove's  Dung 872b  (Stratton-Porter) 

Dowry S72b  (Pollard) 

Doxology S72b  (M.  (.).  Evans) 

Drachma,  Dram 872b 


Dragoman 

cf  Targum.  .                 .  .2910''  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 
Dragon S73a  (Day) 

cf  Astronomy 3()()b  (Maunder) 

cf  Bel  and  the 127b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cfFox..  ..1144"  (Day) 

cf  Jackal  .  r>lS"  (Day) 

Red 

cf    Revelat  ion    of 

John 2f)S2b  (Orr) 

cf  Sea-monster 2707"  (Day) 

cf  Waterspout 307;r'  (Day) 

cf  Whale 3082-  (Day) 

cf  Whelp 30S3a  (Day) 

Dragon  Well 

cf  Jackal's  Well 1548b  (Master-man) 

Dram 

cf  Drachma 872b 

cf  Money 2070"  (Porter) 

Drama,  Mimic 

cf  Games 11GS1'  (Smith) 

Draught 873b 

Drawer  of  Water 873b  (Patch) 

cf  Hewer 1384b  (Patch) 

Dream,  Dreamer 874a  (Clippinger) 

cf  Greece,  Religion  in.  1301"  (Fairbanks) 

Dredge 87ob 

Dregs 875b 

Drchem 3G5b  (Clay) 

Dress 875b  (Eager) 

cf  Adorn Glb  (Kapp) 

cf  Fisher's  Coat 1110" 

Footgear 879a 

cf  Fringes 114Gb  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

cf  Frock 1147"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

cf  Handkerchief 1334b 

Headdress 878a 

cf  Hem 1374a  (Eager) 

cf  Hood 1419" 

Of  Jesus  and  His  disci- 
ples   879a 

cf  Jewel lG75b  (Orr) 

cf  Mantle 1984" 

Materials S70b 

cf  Meals,  Meal-time. .  .2015b  (Eager) 

Meaning  of  terms 87Ga 

cf  Muffler 2093b 

cf  Napkin 2119b 

Outer  garments 877a 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2452a  (Wiener) 

cf  Shawl 2752a 

Under  garments S77b 

cf  Veil 3047a  (Easton) 

cf  Wimple 3085b 

Drink 

cf  Drink,  Strong S79b  (Edwards) 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager) 

cf  Offering 2G4ob  (Reeve) 

Drink,  Strong 879b  (Edwards) 

cf  Liquor 1896a 

cf    Temperance,    Tem- 
perate  2929b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Wine  .  .  .  .  3086b  (Easton) 


3228 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Drive  Asunder 31G1'  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Dromedary 

of  Guild 5471'  (Day) 

Drop.  Dropping SS();I 

Dropsy....  SS( )' 

Dross 8XO:1 

Drought 

cf  Famine  .  .  .  .  .1097"  (\\ .  L.  Walker) 

Drove 

cf  Cattle 5X31'  (Day) 

Drowning 

ef  Punishments 250  I1'  (Hirsch) 

Drum XsO" 

cf  Music 2101-  (Millar) 

Drunkenness SS()'>  (Edwards 

cf  Drink,  Strong S791'  (Edwards) 

cf  Wine 3088"  (Easton) 

Drusilla SSlb  (Kerr) 

Dry 

cf  Ground 1307"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Dualism 

cf  Philosophy 2383"  (Rees) 

Due 

cf  Duly SS31'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Duke.  .  .  .8X2"  (Van  Pelt 

cf  Chief 006"  (Farr) 

Dulcimer 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

Dumah XX2"  (.Weir 

Dumb SS2"  (Macalister) 

Dung SS21'  (Patch! 

Dung  Gate XX2h  (Patch) 

Dungeon 

cf  Prison 2456"  (T.  Lewis) 

Dun-hill...  .  ..882b 

cf  Dung.  .  .  .  .  .SS21'  (Patch. 

Dunkera 

cf  Lord's  Supper 1920"  ('Kurtx) 

Dura 883"  (Pinches) 

Dure SS3" 

cf  Endure 9  II1' 

Dust 883"  (Edwards) 

cf  Rolling  Thing 2597b 

Duty SS31'  (W.  L.  Walker  1 

cf  Ethics 1013"  (Alexander) 

Dwarf 883b  (Earr) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2440b  (Wiener) 
Dwell X83b  (Edwards) 

cf  Inhabit 1468"  (Edwards. 

Dye,  Dyeing 883b  (Patch) 

cf  Colors 674b  (Patch) 

cf  Purple 2o09h  (Day) 

cf  Rams'  Skins 2530" 

cf  Tanner 290Sb  (Patch) 

cf  Thyatira 2977b  (I Junks) 

Dysentery S84b  (Macalister) 

Ea 370b  (Rogers) 

Eagle 885"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Eanes  (Manes) 1981a 

Ear SSI)1'  (Luering) 

Earing 886b 


Early XX6b  (Gerberding) 

Earnest XX6b  (Schenk) 

cf  Pledge 2-10S1'  (Easton) 

Kan-ing XX?1  (Eager) 

cf  Amulet 12-61'  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Ornament 220 11'  (Doolan) 

cf  Ring 2594"  (Crannell) 

Earth XX7"  (Day) 

cf  Anthropology 1  14h  (Marais) 

Circle  of  the 

cf  Astronomy 31  I1'  (Maunder) 

Corners  of  the SS7:i 

cf  Astronomy 315"  (Maunder) 

cf  Evolution 1043"  (Zenos) 

cf  Heavens.  Xew 1353"  (Vos) 

cf  Land 18261'  (Day) 

New 
cf     Eschatology     of 

XT 979h  (Vos) 

Pillars  of  the 

cf  Astronomy 315"  (Maunder) 

Vault  of  the XX71' 

cf  Astronomy 315"  (Maunder) 

cf  World,  Cosmological  3106"  (Orr) 
Earthen  Vessels,  .XS7'<  (Patch) 

cf  Potter 24231'  (Patch) 

Earthly.  .  .  .  .  .SS7b  (Edwards) 

Earthquake SSS"  (Joy) 

Causes  of SSS" 

In  Jerusalem xsx> 

In  Palestine SSS" 

In  Scripture SSS1' 

Symbolic  use sssb 

Ease .  .  .SSS1'  (Clippinger) 

East 

cf  Natural  Features...  2122"  (Day' 
East,  Children  of  the..  .  .SSS1'  (Day/ 

East  Country 889" 

East  Gate 1176>>  (Caldecott) 

cf  Tabernacle 28X9"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

East  Sea 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

East  Wind 

cf  Wind 30851'  (Joy) 

Easter 8X9"  (Porter) 

Kbal SS91' 

Ebal,  Mount 8891'  (Ewing) 


l-:bed-nieloch 
lOben-bohan  (Bohan). 
l'J)en-e/el  (E/el) 
Eben-e/er 


S901'  (Farr) 
.  .494" 
10811' 

890b  (Ewing) 


Eber  ..................  X90b  (Grant) 

cf  Heber  ............  13541'  (Pollard) 

cf  Semites  ...........  2717"  (Mack) 

Ebez  .................  X90b 

cf  Abcz  .............  Gb 

Ebiasaj)h  ..............  890b 

cf  Al)iasaph  .........  7b  (Beecher) 

l-:V)ionisin,  Ebionites  ____  890b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 
Account  of..  ..891b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3229 


Eh  ion  ism — con  tinned 
Christology     of     curly 

churcli S(K)1' 

History  of.  ...  .892" 

Literature  of.  .  .  .802' 

( )rigin  of  name S01b 

Puulinism       of       curly 
church.  .  .  .SOI" 

Ehionitcs,        Apocryplial 

Gospel  of 107"  (Hutchison) 

Ebony SOI"  (Musfermun) 

Ebron SOt1' 

cf  Ahdon 4b  (Beecher) 

cf  Hebron 13(>r>"  (Mustek-man) 

Ehronuh  (Abronah) 23" 

Ecanus  (Ethanus) l()12b 

Ecbatana 

of  Raphael 2/)32b  (.1.  E.  II.  Thomson; 

Ecco  Homo 8941'  (Clippinger) 

Eeclesiustes 894b  (Beecher) 

Canonicity 897" 

Composite  uuthorshij) . SO;?1 

Contents 89/V' 

Date  uml  authorship.  .890" 

cf  Gumcs ll()Sb  (Smith) 

"Kins  in  Jerusalem". .896° 

Kohclcth S9t>" 

Linguistic  peculiarities  896b 
Structure  of  book 895" 

Ecclesiasticus 

cf  Gumcs HGSb  (Smith) 

cf  Jerusalem 1()17"  (Mastermun) 

cf  Prologue 24f)8b 

of  Septuagint 2724b  (Thackeray) 

cf  Siruch,  Hook  of  .  .  .  .28()(ib  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Eclipse 

cf  Astronomy 303b;  310"  (Maunder) 

Ed 897"  (Wright) 

Edar  (Eder) 899" 

Eddias  (led* lias) 144S1' 

Eddinus S97b 

Eden  (garden) 897b  (Wright) 

Archaeological  theory.  2201'  (Kyle) 

Armenia 898" 

Babylonia 898" 

Central  Asia 897b 

cf  Gihon 122Sh  (Mastcrman) 

cf  Hiddekel l,388b  (Wright) 

North  Pole 898" 

cf  Shinur .  .2771''  (Pinches) 

cf  Tclussar 292;>  (Pinches) 

cf  Tigris .  .2081"  (Wright) 

Eden,  Children  of          .  .G07b  (Fortune) 

Eden,  House  of 

cf  Aven 340a 

cf  Betheden 897b  (Wright) 

cf  Children  of  Eden. . .  (K)7b  (Fortune) 

Eder  (person) 890" 

cf  Ader f)f)b 

Eder  (place) 899"  (Mastermuni 

Edes  (Edos) 900b 


1'dge 

890" 

1<  difieat  ion  

.  .  .  .800" 

(Furr) 

Edna 

S90" 

Edom,  l']domiles  .  . 

.  .  .800" 

(Ewing) 

Boundaries  . 

.  .  .  .890" 

(  Character  and  feu 

uresSOO1' 

History 

.  .  .000" 

Idumaea  and  the 

Idu- 

mueans    . 

.000" 

cf  Jehoram 

1  f)Slb  CMosimnn  ) 

Origin  of  nume  .  . 

.     .899b 

cf  Seir  . 

.2713 

'  (Ewing) 

cf  Selu  .  . 

2713 

1  iFwiii"  i 

Edos 9()()b 

Edrei 900>>  (living) 

Education 00()b  (Meyer) 

Definition  of OOO1' 

In  early  Israel 901  ' 

Deuteronomic    legis- 
lation  901b 

Monarchical  period  .  001b 
Nomadic    and    agri- 
cultural periods  .  .901" 
Reading  and  writing  902:1 

of  Jehoshuphat loS2"  (Mosiman) 

In  later  Israel 002" 

Book  of  the  law    ...  002b 
Book  of  Proverbs   .  .003" 
Educational     signifi- 
cance       of        the 

prophets 002b 

Greek    and    Roman 

influences 903b 

Scribes  and  Levit.es.  903" 

Wise  men 902b 

In  NT  times 9()3b 

Educational  work  of 

early  disciples.  .  .  . 9()4b 
Method  and  aims. .  .  904" 
Preeminence  of  Jesus 

us  a  teacher 9()4b 

Subject-matter       of 

instruction 904" 

Valuable    results    of 
Jewish  education  .901" 

of  Schoolmaster 2702b  (Easton) 

cf  Synagogue 2878b  (Levertoff) 

cf  Teach 2021"  (DeMent) 

cf  Tutor 302S" 

Eduth 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of  .  .  .2487"  (Sampey) 

Effect  .  .  00.-)"  (Furr) 

Egg ...  0().r)b  (St  rutton-Porter) 

cf  Food.  .  .  .1124"  (Eager) 

Eglah OO.V' 

Eglaim 00r>b 

Kglath-shelishiyah 90f>b  (Ewing) 

cf  Heifer 13G7b  (Easton) 

cf  Palestine 2219"  (Condor) 

Eglon  (person) 90f>b  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Eglon  (place) 990"  (Ewing) 


3230 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Egypt •   '.)<)()'  (IVtrie) 

Brook  of 523"  (Kyle) 

cf  Shihar 2768"  (Kyle) 

Civilization 914" 

Character 915" 

Foreign  gods 915" 

Four  groups  of  gods  915" 

Future  life 914" 

Language 914" 

Laws 91.V' 

Literal  lire 9141' 

Writing 914" 

Country 906" 

Basis  of  land 900" 

Climate 906" 

Conditions  of  life.  .  .907" 

Earliest    human    re- 
mains  9()t>b 

Fauna 907*' 

Flora...  .907'' 

Nile 907" 

Nile  Valley 906" 

Prehistoric  races. .  .  .907'' 
History 9071' 

Arabic 9091' 

Dynasties 90S1';  909" 

Early     foreign     con- 
nections   910" 

Prehistoric 90S" 

Roman  times 909b 

cf  Mizraim 20G9b  (Kyle) 

cf  Nile 2145"  (Kylei 

( )T  connections 910a 

Ahramic  times 9101' 

Circumcision 910h 

Cities  and  places  .  .  .913" 

Descent  into  Egypt  .91 1" 

Egyptian  Jew 913" 

Ethiopians 912" 

Exodus 911" 

Hadad 912" 

Historic  position. .  .  .91 11' 

Hophra 9121' 

Israel  in  Canaan. .  .  .912" 

Jews  atSyene 912" 

Joseph 911" 

New     Jerusalem     at 
Oniah 913" 

Oppression 911" 

Pharaoh's  daughter  912'' 

Plagues 911" 

Semitic  connections . 910" 

Shishak 912'' 

Tahpanhes 912'' 

Zcrakh 912'' 

cf  Phoenicia 2390"  (Porter) 

cf  Plagues  of  Egypt.  .  .2403"  (Kyle) 

cf  Seveneh 2744a 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2775b  (Nicol) 

cf  Sidon 2785b  (Porter) 

cf  Slave,  Slavery 2815b  (Raffety) 

cf  Wisdom..  .  .  .3089b  (Easton) 


Egyptian,  The 916" 

Egyptian  Kings  (later) 

cf  Egypt 900''  (Petrie) 

cf  Hophra 2359''  (Nicol) 

cf  Necoh 2300"  (Nicol) 

cf  Pharaoh 2359"  (Kyle) 

cf  Shishak 2777b  (Nicol) 

Egyptian  Versions 

cf  Coptic  Versions.  .  .  .70S1'  (Tisdall) 

Egyptians,     Gospel     ac- 
cording to  the 
cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  197"  (Hutchison) 

Ehi 916a 

cf  Ahiram 80"  (Beecher) 

Ehud 916"  (Farr) 

Either.  .  916" 

Eker 916" 

Ekrebel 916" 

Ekron 916"  (Porter) 

cf  Accaron 27b 

Ekronite 916''  (Porter) 

El 

cf  God,  Names  of 12641'  (Mack) 

Ela 916b 

Eladah  (Eleadah) 924b 

Elah 916b  (Mosiman) 

Elah,  Vale  of 916b  (Masterman) 

Elam  (person) 917"  (Farr) 

Elam,  Elamites 917"  (Pinches) 

cf  Shushan 2782"  (Pinches) 

Elasa 923" 

Klasah 923" 

cf  Eleasah 924''  (Farr) 

cf  Saloas 2664" 

Elath,  Eloth 923"  (Ewing) 

Elberith 

cf  Baal-berith 347" 

El-beth-el 923'' 

Elcia  (Elkiah) 938" 

Eldaah 923b 

Eldad 923" 

Eldad  and  Modad,  Book 

of 923''  (Fortune) 

Elder  (NT) 924"  (Grant) 

cf  Bishop 478b  (Dosker) 

cf      Church      Govern- 
ment   653b  (Forrester) 

cf  Ministry 2059"  (T.  M.  Lindsay) 

cf  Presbyter 2437b  (Mack) 

Elder  (OT) 923b  (Stearns) 

Elead 924" 

Eleadah 924" 

Elealch 924"  (Ewing) 

Eleasa  (Elasa) 923a 

Eleasah 924b  (Farr) 

Eleazar 924b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Eleazurus  (Eliasibus). .  .  .929b 

Elect 925"  (Dunelm) 

Elect  Lady 925"  (Law) 

cf  Cyria 773b 

cf  John,  Epistles  of ...  1719a  (Law) 
cf  Lady 1821b 


GENERAL INDEX 


32:*  1 


Election 925h 

Cognate  and  illustra- 
tive Biblical  lan- 
guage  92G" 

Considerations  in  re- 
lief of  thought 92Gb 

Antinomies 92Gb 

Fatalism         another 

thing 927" 

Moral  aspects 927" 

Unknown  future..  .  .927'' 
"We  know  in  part  "  927" 

cf  Foreordain 1 131' 

Incidence  upon  com- 
munity and  indi- 
vidual 

Mysterious  element . 
Perseverance 

cf  Predestination 2435"  (J.  Lindsay) 

Scope  of .  .  . 

Word  in  Scripture.  . 

Electrum 927b  (Fortune) 

cf  Buying 533"  (Eager) 

cf  Metal 2044"  (Masterman) 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2856"  (Fletcher) 

El-Elohe-Israel 927b  (Mack) 

cf  Cod,  Names  of 1267a  (Mack) 

El  Elyon 

cf  Cod,  Names  of 1267"  (Mack) 

Element 927b 

cf  Principles 2455" 

cf  Rudiments 2G24b  (Ruthcrfurd) 

Eleph 927b 

cf  Nephtoah 2134"  (Masterman) 

Elephant 928a 

cf  Behemoth 427a  (Day) 

<'f  Ivory 1544b  (Day) 

cf    Maccabees,    Books 

of 1954"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Elephantine 

cf  Number 2158"  (Smith) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2223b  (Cobern) 

cf  Papyrus 2239"  (Goodspeed) 

cf  Sacrifice  (OT) 2647b  (Reeve) 

cf  Sanballat 2G81b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Sanctuary 2688a  (Wiener) 

cf  Seveneh 2744a 

Elephantine  Papyri 

cf  Israel,  History  of. .  .  1525b  (Orelli) 
Elephantine-Syene      Pa- 
pyri. .  S5Gb  (Nicol) 

Eleutherus 928" 

Eleven  Stars 

cf  Astronomy 309"  (Maunder) 

Eleven,  The 928"  (Clippinger) 

Elhanan 928a  (Sampey) 

cf  Goliath 127Gb  (Reeve) 

Eli 928b  (Grant) 

cf  Shiloh 2769"  (Ewing) 

Eli,    Eli,    Lama   Sabach- 

thani  (Eloi) 939a  (Clippinger) 


Eliab  .............  928b  (Farrj 

Kliada  ................  928b 

Kliadas  ...............  928b 


.1449" 

.930b  (Farr) 

.929" 

.929"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

.1559b 

.2753b  (Roberts) 

.  929" 


(S.  F.  Hunter) 


Eliadun  (Iliadun). 
Eliah  (Elijah)  .  . 
Kliahba  ......... 

Eliakim  ......... 

cf  Jakim  ..... 

cf  Shebna  ...... 

Eliali  ..... 

Eliam  .................  929" 

Eliaonias  ..............  929" 

Klias  (Elijah)  .......  930b  (Farr) 

Eliasaph.  .  ...  .929" 

Eliashib  ...............  929"  (Farr) 

Eliasib  (Eliashib)  .......  929"  (Farr) 

Eliasibus  ..............  929b 

Eliasimus  .............  929b 

Eliasis  ................  929b 

Eliathah  ..............  929b 

Elidad  ................  929b 

cf  Eldad  ....  .  .  923'' 

Eliehoenai  .............  929b 

Eliel  ..................  929h 

Elienai  ................  929b 

Eliezer  ................  929b 

Elihaba  (Elialiba)  ......  929b 

Elihoenai  (Eliehoenai)  .  .  .929b 
Elihoreph  .............  930" 

Elihu  .................  930" 

In  Book  of  Job  .......  930"  (Genung) 

cf  Job,  Book  of  .......  lGS4b  (Genung) 

Elihu  (general)  .........  930" 

Elijah  .................  93()b  (Farr) 

Character  of  prophet  .  932b 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of  .  .1538"  (Orelli) 

cf  Jezebel  ...........  1G751'  (Roberts) 

Miracles  in  Elijah  nar- 
ratives ...........  933" 

In  NT  ..............  933" 

cf  Palestine  ..........  2217" 

cf  Prophecy  .........  2459b 

cf  Raven  ............  2533"  (Strat  ton-Porter) 

Works  of  ............  930b 

Elika  .................  933b 

Elim  .................  933b 

Elimelech  .............  933b  (Reeve) 

cf  Naomi  ............  2118"  (Roberts) 

cf  Ruth  .............  2627b  (Geden) 

Elioenai  (Eliehoenai)  ....  929b 

Elionas  ...............  933b 

Eliphal  ...............  933b 

Eliphalat  .............  934" 

Eliphaz  ...............  934" 

In  Book  of  Job  .......  934"  (Genung) 

Eliphelehu  ............  934" 

Eliphelet  (Eliphalat)  ____  934a 

Elisabeth  ..............  934a 

cf  Zacharias  .........  3129b  (Easton) 

Eliseus 

cf  Elisha  ............  934b  (Reeve) 


(Cornier) 

(Orelli) 


GENERAL INDEX 


Elisha 934b  (Reeve) 

And  Benhadad  II 437"  (Nicol) 

Call 9341' 

Career 93.j" 

Character.  .  .  .9:57"' 

Compared  with  Elijah  937" 

cf  Geha/.i HS2"  (Crichton) 

cf  Jehoahaz l-~>7:>"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Jehu loS.r)"  (Caldecott  ) 

cf  Joash b~>76h  (Caldecott  ; 

cf  Palestine 22 171'  (Condor) 

Parting  gift  of  Elijah. .  935a 

Preparation 934b 

Elishah 9371'  (Grant) 

Elishama 9371'  (Farr) 

Ehshaphat 9371' 

Elisheba 937b 

Elishua 93S" 

Elisimus  (Eliasimus)  .  .  .  .93S" 

Elm 93S" 

Eliud 93S" 

Elizaphan 93S"  (Betteridge) 

Elizur 93S" 

Elkanah 93S"  (Farn 

Elkiah 93S« 

Elkoshite 93S"  (Betteridge) 

Ellasar 93S1'  ( Pinches j 

Elm 938b 

cf  Terebinth 2949"  (Masterman) 

Elniadam 93Sb 

Elnaam 939" 

Elnathan 939"  (Farr) 

Elohim,  Eloi 

cf  God,  Xamcsof. .     .  .  12<».V'  (Mack 
Eloi,  Eloi,  Lama  Sabach- 

thani 939"  (,Clippin?ier) 

Elon  (person) ..  ..939" 

Elon  (place).  .  .(.>^):i 

Elon-beth-hanan   (Elon)  .939" 

Elonites 

cfElon 939" 

Eloquent 939l> 

Eloth  (Elath) 923"  (Ewing) 

Elpaal 939'' 

Elpalet •  •  9391' 

cf  Eliphalat 934" 

El-paran 2247a  (Ewing) 

Elpelet  (Eliphelet) 934" 

El  Hoi 

cf  God,  Names  of 12(>4b  (Mack) 

El  Shaddai 

cf  God,  Xames  of 12f)4''  (Mack) 

Eltckc,  Eltekeh 939b  (Ewing) 

Eltekon 939b 

Eltolad 939b 

Elul 939b 

cf  Time 29Slb  (Porter) 

Eluzai 939" 

Elymaeans  (Elamites)..  .917a  (Pinches) 

Elymais 939b 

Elymas 940" 

cf  Bar-Jesus 404b  (S.  F.  Hunter; 


Elyon 

cf  God,  Names  of 121)4''  (Mack) 

El/abad 940" 

Elzaphan  (Elizaphan).  .  .93S"  (Betteridge) 

Einadiibun 940" 

Einathcis 940" 

Embalming 940" 

cf  Burial 529"  (Eager) 

Embrace 940" 

Embroidery 940"  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

Emek-ke/ix 94()b 

Emerald 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2Sr>G"  (Fletcher) 

Emerods 94()b  (Macalister) 

cf  Plague 24021'  (Macalister) 

F.miin 940b  (Sayce) 

Imminent 941" 

iMiimanuel  (Immanuel). .1457b  (A.  \Y.  Evans) 

Emmaus 941"  (Masterman) 

Of  the  Apocrypha.  .  .  .941a 

cf  Jesus  Christ K)u5b  (Orr) 

Of  St.  Luke 941" 

Enimer 941" 

Emmeruth 941" 

I'jnmor 94 11' 

Emotion 

cf  Passion 225ob  (Easton) 

Emperor 941b 

cf  Augustus 332"  (Hutchison) 

cf  Caesar 036" 

Empty 941b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Emulation 941'-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

En- 9Ub 

cf  Fountain 1141b  (Day) 

cf  Well 3081"  (Day) 

Enable 941b 

Enaim,  Enam 941b  (Masterman) 

cf  Open  Place 219Cb  (Easton) 

Enan 942" 

Enasibus 942tt 

Encampment 

By  the  Hed  Sea 942" 

cf   Wanderings  of 

Israel 30G4a  (Condor) 

cf  War 30G9b  (Nicol) 

Enchantment 942"  (Pratt) 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Divination SGO"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Orator 2199"  (Edwards) 

End 943°  (W.L.Walker) 

cf  Astronomy 31o*  (Maunder) 

End  of  the  World 

cf  Eschatology  of  the 

NT 979b  (Vos) 

Endamage 9431' 

Endeavor 943b 

Endirons 943b 

Endless 943b  (Orr) 

En-dor 943b  (Ewing) 

Witch  of 944-  (Orr);   3097*  (T.  W. 

Davies) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


32.3.3 


Endow,  Endue 9-1-1"  (Farr) 

Ends  of  the  Earth 

cf  Astronomy 315"  (Maunder) 

Endure 944'' 

En-eglaim 94  4b 

cf  Fountain 1141b  (Day) 

Enemessar 944b  (Hutchison) 

Enemy 944b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Enencus 945" 

Enflame  (Inflame) 1408" 

En-gaddi 945" 

Engage 94">" 

En-gannim 915"  (Ewing) 

of  Garden  House 1175" 

En-gedi 9-1.")"  (Wright) 

cf  Fountain 1141b  (Day) 

Engine 945b 

cf  Siege 278G"  (Xicol) 

English  Versions 945b  (Hutchison) 

cf    American    Revised 

Version 116"  (Easton) 

Engraft  (Graft) 1292b  (Patch) 

Engraving 

cf  Carving 581b  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

En-haddah 952" 

Enhakkore 9.">2b 

En-hazor 952b 

Enigma 

cf  Games 1168b  (Smith) 

Enjoin 952b 

Enlarge 952b  (Rreslich) 

Enlargement 952b  (Breslich) 

Enlighten 952b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Enlil 370b  (Rogers) 

En-mishpat 

cf  Kadesh-barnea  ....  1788b 
Enmity 952b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Abolish 15a  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Hate 1343b  (Orr) 

Ennatan 953a 

Enoch  (Ilenooh) 1374b 

Enoch  (person) 953"  (Grant ) 

cf    Apocalyptic    Liter- 
ature  101b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Enoch  (place) 953"  (Orr) 

Enoch,  Books  of 164b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Date 165b 

Ethiopic,  Book  of 164b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

External  chronology  .  .  166a 

History 164b 

Language 165a 

Quoted  in  Ep.  of  Jude  1771b  (Moorehead) 

Secrets,  Book  of 164b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Secrets  of  Enoch 166b 

Slavonic,  Book  of lG4b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Slavonic  Enoch lGGb 

Enormity 953a 

Enos 953"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Enosh 140b  (Davis) 

Enquire 953b 

cf  Inquire 1472b  (M.  O.  Evans) 


En-rimmon 953b  (Masterman) 

cf  Rimmon  (place)..  .  .2593''  (Masterman) 
En-rogel 953h  (Masterman) 

cf  Fountain 1141b  (Day) 

Enrolment 

cf  Chronology  of  XT.  .045"  (Armstrong) 

cf  Tax.  ...  2918"  (Sweet) 

Ensample 

cf  Example.  ..1050" 

En-shemesh 95  \h 

Ensign 

cf  Banner 384"  (Eager) 

Ensue 95  4b 

Entangle 954b  (Pratt) 

En-tappuah 954b 

Entreat 1490h  (Miller) 

Environment 

cf  Sin 2800b  (McConncll) 

Envy 955a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Epaenetus 955a  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Epaphras 955a  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Epaphroditus 955b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Ephah  (measure) 955b 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Ephah  (person) 955h  (Williams) 

Ephai 955b 

Epher 955b 

Ephes-dammim 95G"  (Masterman) 

Ephesian 95Ga 

Ephesians,  Epistle  to  the  95Ga  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

Argument 9GOa 

Authenticity 95Ga 

Destination 957b 

cf  Laodiceans,  Ep.  to  .  1837b  (Rutherfurd) 

Place  and  date 957b 

Purpose 959b 

Relation  to  other  XT 
writings 958b 

Teaching 960a 

Ephesus 901"  (Banks) 

cf  Samoa 2G74b  (Kinsella) 

cf  Timothy 2985"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Town  Clerk 3001"  (Dosker) 

Ephlal r  9G2a 

Ephod  (person) 9G2b;  8a  (Beecher) 

Ephod  (vestment) 9G2a  (Sampey) 

cf  Images 1452a  (Cobern) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2452a  (Wiener) 

Ephphatha 962b 

Ephraim 

cf  Hill,  Hill  Country.  .1392"  (Masterman) 
Ephraim      (person      and 

tribe) 9G3a  (Ewing) 

Ephraim  (town) 9G3b  (Ewing) 

Ephraim,Forest(Wood)of963b 
Ephraim,  Gate  of 

cf  Jerusalem 1603a  (Masterman) 

Ephraim,  Mount 9G3b 

cf  Gaash 1150a 

Ephraimite 963b 

cf  Ephrath 964a  (Masterman) 


32:54 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Ephrain  (Ephron) 9G4"  (Mastorman) 

Ephrath,  Ephrathah.  .  .  .9G4"  (Master-man) 

Ephrathite 9G4"  (Masterman) 

Ephron  (person) 9G4'X 

cf  Money 207G-  (Porter) 

Ephron  (place) 9G4:1  (Master-man) 

cf  Ccphyrun 1217- 

Epicureans 9G4-  (Rees) 

Antithesis     of     Paul's 
teaching 9G.V' 

Ataraxy 9G.r>" 

Atomic  theory 9G.~>- 

Causes  of  success 9G.">b 

"Consensus Gentium"  9G.">b 

Egoistic  hedonism.  .  .  .  9G4h 

Epicurean  gods 965b 

Materialism 9G.")b 

Social  contract 9Goa 

Social      and      political 
causes 9C>  1 ' 

cf  Stoics 2Sr,.(b  (Rees) 

Theory  of  ideas 9G5b 

Epilepsy 

cf  Lunatic 194 lh  (Sweet) 

Epiphanes 

cf  Antiochus  IV l">9b  (Harry 

Epiphanius 10001'  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Epiphi 9GG* 

cf  Year 312»i» 

Epistle .9GG-  (Pratt) 

Apocryphal 967b 

Distinctive    character- 
istics   9GG" 

Distinguished    from    a 
letter 9G7b 

Epistolary   writings   in 
XT 9G7:l 

Letters  in  Apocrypha  .  9G7" 

Letter-writing    in    an- 
tiquity  9GG1' 

NT  epistles.  ...  .  .9(>tV 

OT  epistles.  .  .  .9GG1' 

Patristic  epistles 9G7b 

Epistles,  Captivity 

cf  Philemon,  Ep.  to.  .  .23GGb  (C.  S.  Lewis) 
Epistles,  The  Pastoral.  .225Sb  (Rutherfurd,) 
Epistles,  Spurious 

cf  Apocryphal  Epistles  194b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Equal 908"  (Jacobs) 

Equality 9GS:l  (Jacobs) 

Equity 90S"  (M.  ().  Evansj 

Er 90S* 

Era 9G8b  (Porter) 

cf  Time 29S2b  (Porter) 

Eran 9GSb 

Eranites 9(>8b 

Erastus 9G9-  (S.  I-1.  Hunter) 

Erech •  •  •  9G9a      (Pinches.) ;       3G/? 

(Clay) 

Eri,  Erites 969b 

Eri-aku 9G9b  (Pinches) 

cf  Tidal.  .  -  .298O  (Pinches) 


Err 97()b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Err,,,- 97()b  (\V.  I..  Walker) 

Esaias 

cf  Isaiah 149.V1  (Robinson) 

Esarhaddon 971-  (Clay);   2711'  (Clay); 

294b       (Sayce) ;        3G7a 
(Clay) 

cf  Sarchedonus 2G92:l 

Esau 97 lb  (Forn\ster) 

cf  Birthright 47Sil  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Family  of,  in  Genesis  1208b  (Mollcr) 

cf  Jacob 1  ooO"  (Boydj 

Esay 972' 

lOschatolosy,  NT 979b  (Vos) 

Consummate  state..  .  .991:l 

Development 9S()b 

Doctrinal  and  religious 
significance1 979b 

cf  Gehenna HS3a  (Vos) 

General  and  individual. 9S1^ 

G<>neral  structure 9SOa 

cf  Hades 1315b  (Vos) 

cf  Heavens,  New 13.~>3'1  (Vos) 

cf  Hope 14191'  (Easton; 

Intermediate  state.  .  .  .991b 

Jesus'  discourse It).1)"1'  (Orr) 

cf  Johannine  Theology  170oa  (Law) 

Judgment 9S9b 

cf  Judgment,  Last  .  .  1777b  (Easton) 

cf  Last  Time 1S40"  (Vos) 

cf  Mark,  Gosjiel  of.    .  .1994''  (Farmer' 

cf  Paradise 224G"  (Wright) 

Parousia.  .  .  .  .9S1";  2249-  (Easton) 

cf  Prison,  Spirits  in.  .  .24oGh  (Orr) 

cf    Punishment,    Ever- 
lasting  2.-)03b  (Orr) 

cf  Regeneration 254Gb  (Xuelsen) 

Resurrection 9SG!V 

cf  Sirach,  Book  of .  .  .  .2SOSb  (T.  W.  Davies) 
Eschatology,  OT 972-  (Orr) 

cf  Abraham's  Bosom.  .22b  (Orr) 

Apocalyptic..  .  -978a 

Apocryphal 9783 

Conceptions   of   future 
life 973b 

Fundamental  ideas..  .  .972b 

cf  Hell i:J71a  (Orr) 

Idea  of  judgment 977:l 

cf  Immortal 1460"  (Orr) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1030"  (Orr) 

Later    Jewish    concep- 
tions  978a 

Life  and  resurrection.  .974b 

cf  Messiah 2()42b  (Crichton) 

cf  Paradise 224G-  (Wright) 

cf  Punishment,  Ever- 
lasting  250 lb  (Orr) 

cf  Resurrection 25G5a  (Easton) 

ci'Sheol 2761-  (Orr) 

cf  Zephaniah,  Book  of  3146a  (Eiselen) 
Eschew..  .-993a 


(JENERAL  INDEX 


Esdraelon,  Plain  of 993"  (Ewing) 

cf  Harod,  Well  of 1340b  (Ewingj 

Esdnis  (Apocalyptic)..  .  .990"  (T.  W.  Davies,) 

Contents 99<>" 

Date (MX)1' 

Name 99(1" 

Origin  of  the  book  .  .  .  .99('»b 

Original  language 99(>" 

Versions 99<>b 

Esdnis,  Fifth  and  Sixth.  .99(ib 

Esdnis,  First  Hook  of.  .  .991"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Contents 99  I1' 

Date  and  authorship.  .99f>b 

Name 991" 

Versions 99~>b 

Esdnis,  Fourth  Book  of  .172"  (J.  V..  II.  Thomson; 
Esdnis,  Second  Hook  of 

cf    Apocalyptic    Liter- 
ature  IGl'1  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson; 

Esdris 99iib 

Esel)on 99(5" 

Esebriaa 

cf  Escrebias 997" 

cf  Sherebiah 27(14''  (Wolf) 

Esek 997" 

Eserebias 997" 

Eshan 997" 

Eshbaal 

cf  ish ir>ox>' 

cf  Ishboshcth I.JOS1'  (Breslieh) 

Eshban 997" 

cf  ish i.rns'- 

Eshcol  (person) 997" 

Eshcol  (place) 997"  (Masternmn) 

Eshean  (Eshan) 997" 

Eshek 997" 

Eshkalonitc  (Askelon)..  .2S21' 

Eshtaol 997"  (.Irving) 

Eshtaolites !)97" 

Eshfemoa,  Eshtemoh  .  .  .997" 

Eshton 9971' 

Esli ()97'> 

Esora  (Aesora) t>ob 

Espousal,  Espouse 997b 

cf  Spouse 2X461' 

Espy 997b 

Esril  (Ezril) 108.r)b 

Esrom 997'' 

Essenes,  The 997''  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Abstinence 2.">"  (Eager) 

And  Christianity 1001'' 

cf  Ebionism X901'  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Deductions    and    com- 
binations   1001" 

History  and  origin.  .  .  .l()01b 

cf  Josephus   Flavins..  .1742"  (Wenley) 

Name. 99Sb 

Relation  to  apocalyptic 
books 10031' 

Sources  of  information  99X" 

Estate 100r>'> 

Esteem 100f,'>  (W.  L.  Walker) 


(Masterman; 
(Oquhart; 


(T.  W.  Davies; 
(T.  W  .  Davies; 


Esther  (Hadassah; 131  !'• 

cf  Myrtle 21031' 

Esther,  Hook  of I00(i" 

Attacks  upon 1007'' 

Authorship 1000'' 

Canonicity lOOti1' 

( 'onfirmations  of 100X1' 

Contents 1007" 

Date 1 0()t;'' 

Greek  additions 1007b 

Objections  .  .  100X" 

cf  Tobit,  Hook  of 2990'- 

Esther,  The  Kest  of.  .  .  .1009'' 
Contents.  .  .  ....  1009'' 

Date 1010" 

cf  Lysimachus 1944"  (HutchL- 

Naine 1009'- 

Original  language   ....  1010" 
Estimate,  Estimation  .  .  .  1010" 

Esyelus 1010" 

Etam 1010"  (Masterman) 

cf  Nephtoah 2134"  (Masterman) 

Eternal H)l()b  (J.  Lindsay) 

Eternal  Life 

cf  Johannine  Theology  1702'1  (Law) 

Eternity 1011"  (J.  Lindsay) 

El  ham 1012''  (Conder) 

cf  Goslien 12SO"  (Conder) 

cf  Migdol 2050b  (Conder) 

cf  Pithom 24011'  (Conder) 

cf  Succoth 2869"  (Conder) 

Ethan 1012'' 

Ethanim 1012b 

cf  Calendar 541b  (Porter) 

cf  Time. 29X1''  (Porter) 

Ethanus 10121' 

Ethbaal 1012'' 

Ether 1013" 

El  hies 1013"  (Alexander) 

English  moralists 1019" 

Evolutionary  ethics.  .  .  1019b 

German  idealists 1019b 

<  Jreek  philosophy 1017a 

Kant l()19b 

Nature  and  function  of.l()13b 

Of  NT H)22b 

Duties l()24b 

Virtues 1024a 

Of  OT  and  Apocrypha  1020* 

Information 1019" 

Scholasticism 101Sb 

cf     Sermon      on     t  he 

Mount 27321'  (Miller) 

cf  Sin 2798b  (McConnell) 

cf  Trade 3002"  (Easton) 

cf  Truth 3025"  (Carver) 

Utilitarianism 1019" 

Ethics  of  Jesus 1020"  (Stalker) 

In  (lie  Fourth  Gospel.  1030" 

Eternal  life 1030" 

Fruits  of  union  with 
Christ  .  .  .  .  l()30b 


3236 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Ethics  of  Jesus — continued 

In  the  Fourth  Gospel — continued 

Nature  of  faith 1030b 

Need  of  ne\v  birth.  .  l()3()b 

cf  Jesus  Christ 10421-  (Orr) 

cf  Lord's  Day 1919"  (Eastern) 

cf  Sabbath 2(>31b  (Sampey) 

cf     Sermon     on     the 

Mount 2732''  (Miller- 

cf  Sin 2SOO"  (McConnell) 

In  Synoptic  Gospels..  .  102l>" 
Blessings       of       t  he 

kingdom 1  ()2(Vl 

Character     of     sub- 
jects of  kingdom  . .  l()27t> 
Commandments     of 

the  King 1029' 

Ethiopia 1031"  (Cobern) 

cf  Africa 08"  (Pinches) 

Bible  references 1032'' 

Exploration 1034b 

Geography 1031' 

History 10)51'' 

Literature 1031" 

Religion 1033" 

Ethiopian  Eunuch 103  I1'  (  Korr) 

of  Philip,  the  Evangel- 
ist   230S1'  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Ethiopian  Woman 

cf  Cushite  Woman.    .  .709"  i.Boyd) 

Ethiopia  Language 103.")"  (Lit  I  man  J 

Ethiopic  Versions l()3(Vl  (\\'eir; 

Eth-kasin 103<>'> 

Ethma  (Nooma) 21.")" 

Ethnan 10W' 

Ethnarch 

cf  Governor 12S91'  (Heidel) 

Ethni 103(5'' 

Ethnography,  Ethnology 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2S9S1-  (Pinches) 

Eubulus 10301'  (Rutherfurd) 

Eucharist 

cf  Jesus  Christ IfioS1'  (( )rr) 

cf  Lord's  Supper 192lb   (Gununcy;  Dosker; 

Dau;  Kurt/) 

Eumem  s  II 1036b  (Hutchison) 

Eunatan  (Ennatan) 9.")3a 

Eunice 1037a  (Rutherfunl  > 

cf  Lois.  ...  19171'  (Hutherl'urd) 

Eunuch.  ...  1037"  (laager) 

cf  Marriage- 199(>''  (Eager) 

cf  Member 2030"  (Luering) 

cf  Polygamy 2416a  (Caverno) 

cf  Punishments 2o06"  (Hirsch) 

Euodia 103S"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Succeed,  Success  .  .  .286Sb  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Syntyche 2880"  (Rutherfurd) 

of  Yokefellow 3127"  (Rutherfurd) 

Eupator 103S>>  (Hutchison) 

Euphrates H)3S'>  (Wright) 

Eupolemus 1039"  (Hutchison) 

Euraquilo.  10391'  (Joy) 


Eusebius 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of. .  .  .  1990a  (Farmer) 
cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2223b  (Cobern) 

Eutychus.  .  ....  1039"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Kvangelist 1039b  (Gray) 

Eve,  Gospel  of 1040" 

Eve  in  NT 1040b  (Fortune) 

cf  Child-bearing 007h  (Jacobs) 

Eve  in  OT 1040"  (Gemmg) 

cf    Adam    in    ( )T    and 

Apoc 19"  (Genung) 

cf  Adam  in  OT  (Evo- 
lutionary Interpreta- 
tion)   olb  (Genung) 

cf  Family 109,-)"  (Caverno) 

cf  Hawaii 1345" 

cf  Sin 2799"  (McConnell) 

Even,  Evening,  Eventide  1041"  (Porter) 
Evenings,  Between  the.  .  1041a 

Event 1041" 

Everlasting.  .  1041"  (Orr) 

cf  Age 7()h  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Eternal 101()b  (J.  Lindsay) 

cf  Eternity 1011"  (J.  Lindsay  J 

Evi l()41b 

Evidence,  Evident 10411'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Evil -  •  .1041b  (Dungan) 

Moral  evil 1042" 

Physical  evil 1042" 

Evil-doers 1042b 

Evil  Eye 1042b  (Luering) 

cf  Envy 9f>r>"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Eye 10f>9b  (Luering) 

Evil-favoredness 1043a  (Luering) 

Evil-merodaeh 1043"     (II.     I).     Wilson); 

3()7b  (Clay) 
Evil  One  .  ..  .1043"  (Dungan) 

cf  Satan 2693b  (Sweet) 

Evil-speaking 1043"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Blasphemy 4S5b  (Rees) 

cf  Railing 2o2ob  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Slander 281 41'  (Edwards) 

Evil  Spirit 

cf     Communion     with 

Demons GS9b  (Sweet) 

cf  Demon S27b  (Sweet) 

cf  Satan 2<>93b  (Sweet) 

Evil  Thing 1043b  (Dungan) 

Evolution 1043b  (Zenos);    14S"  (Ma- 

rais);    092"  (Tisdall) 
And  Biblical  truth.  .  .  .1011" 
Christianity  and  Chris- 
tian doctrine 1047a 

And  creation 1044b 

Descent  of  man 1040" 

And  the  fall 1093" 

Idea  of 1043b 

Moral  nature 1047a 

Origin    and    nature    of 

religion 104tjb 

And  origin  of  species.  .  10441' 
Recent  origin  of  not  ion.  104 4:l 
of  Regeneration 2f>46b  (Nuelson) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3237 


Evolution — continual 

cf  Virgin-birth 3052"  (Sweet) 

cf       World,       Cosmo- 
logical 3 KM)"  (Orr) 

Evolutionary  History 

Archaeological  theory.  231"  (Kyle) 

Ewe.  .  1010" 

cf  Sheep 27561'  (Day) 

Exact 104!)"  (Betteridge) 

Exaction 1019'' 

Exactors 10  19'' 

Exalt HMO1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Exaltation  of  Christ (HI1'  (Bevan) 

Examine,  Examination.  .  10491'  (Hirsch) 
cf  Courts,  Judicial.  .  .  .  725b  (Hirsch) 

Example 1050" 

Excavation 

cf  Memphis 2031"  (Petrie) 

cf  Palestine 2212"  (Cornier) 

cf  Sherghat 2765"  (Banks) 

cf  Tahpanhes 2903"  (Cohern) 

Exceed,    Exceeding,    Ex- 
ceedingly   1050" 

Excellency 1050"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Excellent 1050"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Exchange,  Exchanger 

cf  Bank,  Banking 383"  (Eager) 

Excommunication 1050''  (Crannell) 

Execute,  Execution 1051b  (Eager) 

Exegesis 

cf  Interpretation 14S9a  (Schodde) 

Exercise 1051h  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Exhortation l()51b  (Wr.  L.  Walker) 

Exile 1052" 

cf  Captivity 5G9b  (Nicol) 

cf  Israel,  History  of  .  .  1525"  (Orclli) 
cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .  1539b  (Orelli) 
cf  Trade 3003b  (Easton) 

Exodus,  The 1052"     (Conder);      911b 

(Petrie) 

Date 1053" 

cf  Goshen 12SO"  (Cornier) 

cf  Israel,  History  of  .  .1515b  (Orelli) 

Lepsius'  theory 1054b 

cf  Migdol 2050b  (Conder) 

cf  Moses 2086"  (Kyle) 

Numbers 105G'1 

cf  Palestine 221 2b  (Conder) 

cf  Pithom 24011'  (Conder) 

cf  Raamses,  Ramcses.  .2520b  (Conder) 

cf  Red  Sea 2539b  (Wright) 

Route 1052" 

cf  Succoth 2SG9"  (Conder) 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  3066b ;  30G9b  (Con<  ler) 

Exodus,  Book  of 1056b  (Moller) 

Authorship 10GG" 

Connection  with  other 

books  of  Pentateuch  1057' 
Contents,  analysis  of.  .  1058" 

cf  Genesis 1207"  (Moller; 

Historical  character. . .  10G4b 


Exodus,  Book  of — continued 

cf  Leviticus 1S71'1;  1878"  (Mullen 

Name 105G1' 

Exorcism 1007''  (Sweet; 

cf  Zoroastrianism 3157"  (Easton) 

Expect,  Expectation.  .  .  .  1008b  (Jacobs; 

Expectation,  Messianic 

cf  Christs,  False G28b  (Orr) 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT.972"  (Orr) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1624"  (Orr) 

cf  Messiah.  .  .  .  .2039"  (Crichton 

Expedient 10C.S''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Experience 1068b  (Gray) 

Experiment 1069" 

Expiation 1069"  (Carver) 

cf  Atonement 627b  (Orr) 

cf  Propitiation 2467"  (Carver) 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 2638"  (Reeve) 

Exposure  to  Wild  Beasts 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

Express 10(59" 

Exquisite 1069" 

Extinct 1069" 

Extortion 1069"  (W.  Evans) 

Extreme,  Extremity 1069b 

Eye 1069b  (Luering) 

"cf  Envy 955"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

cf  Evil  Eye 1042b  (Luering) 

Eyelid 1070"  (Eager) 

Eyepaint 

cf  Color,  Colors 674b  (Patch) 

cf  Eyelid 1070"  (Eager) 

cf  Keren-happuch  ....  1793" 

cf  Paint 2208"  (Crannell) 

Eyesalve 1070" 

Eyes,  Blinding  of 

cf  Eye 1069b  (Luering) 

cf  Punishments 25041'  (Hirsch; 

Eyes,  Covering  of 1070" 

Eyes,  Diseases  of 1070'  (Maealister; 

cf  Blindness 487b  (Maealister; 

Eyeservice 1070b 

Eyes,  Tender 

cf  Blindness 487b  (Maealister; 

Ezar  (Ezer) 1081h 

Ezbai 1070b 

Ezbon 10701' 

cf  Ozni 22061' 

Ezekias  (Ezechias) 1071" 

Ezekiel 1071"  (Moller) 

cf  Genesis 1202b  (Moller; 

cf  Jehezkel 1574" 

cf  Leviticus 1S711-;  1S791'  (Moller 

cf  Ministry  of  Ezekiel.  573"  (Xicol) 

cf  Palestine 2219b  (Conder) 

Prophet,  and  his  book.  1071" 

The  book 1072" 

Person  of  Ezekiel.  .  .  1071" 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 2648"  (Reeve) 

Significance  of  E/ekiel 
in  Israel's  religious 
historv.  10731' 


3238 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Ezckiel — contin  tied 

Significance  of  Ezckiel  in  Israel's  religious  history 
— continued 
Ezekiel   and    apoca- 
lyptic literature  .  .  1080" 
Ezekieland  Levitical 

system 1074b 

Ezekiol     and     Mes- 
sianic ideal 10791' 

Ezekiel'a  conception 

of  God 10SO>> 

Formal    characteris- 
tics of  Ezekiel  .  .  .  1073b 
cf  Temple  of  Ezekiel .  .  29341'  (Caldcoott ;   Orr) 

cf  Tile,  Tiling 2981b 

Ezel 1081b 

Ezem 1081b 

Ezer 1081h 

Ezerias 10Slb 

Ezias  (Ozias) 220<>b 

Ezion-geber 1082h  (Ewing) 

Eznite 

cf  Adino 56a  (Beecher) 

Ezora 1082s 

Ezra  (person) 1082"  (R.  I).  Wilson) 

Family 1082" 

His  commission 10S2b 

cf  Israel,  History  of  .  .  1526b  (Orelli) 

Occupation 10S2b 

Reforms  and  labors  of  575b  (Nicol) 

Traditions 1083a 

Ezra-Nehemiah  (Book)  .1083"  (R.  1).  Wilson) 

Historicity 1084" 

Languages 1083b 

Literary  character.  .  .  .10S3h 

Name 1083" 

cf  Nehemiah 2131"  (R.  I).  Wilson) 

Object 1083" 

Plan 1083" 

Sources 10831' 

Text 1084b 

Unity 1083" 

Ezrahitc 1085" 

Ezri 10851' 

Ezril 1085b 

Fable 1085"  (East on) 

cf  Allegory 97b  (Sehodde) 

Of  Jotham 1754"  (Caklccott) 

cf  Parable 2243a  (Schodde) 

Face 10S5b  (Luering) 

cf  Countenance1 723b  (Luering) 

cf  Forehead 1127b  (Luering) 

cf  Spit 284G"  (T.  Lewis) 

Fact 1086a 

Fade 1080"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fail 1086a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fain 10SGb  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Almost 100b  (Harry) 

Faint 108Gb  (Macalister) 

Fair 1087a  (Luering) 


Fair  Havens 1087b 

cf  Crete 7441'  (Calder) 

cf  Lasca 1840a 

Fairs 1087b 

cf  Wares 3072"  (Raffetyj 

Faith 1087b  (Dunelm ) 

Of  Abraham 1088a 

Active  and  passive. .  .  .  1088" 

As  creed 1088" 

Centrality  of 1088" 

Etymology,  English. .  .  1087b 

Etymology,  NT 1087b 

Etymology,  OT 1087b 

cf  Hope 1419b  (Easton) 

cf  Justification 17831'  (Faulkner) 

Of  Moses 1088" 

Of  Rahab 1088" 

Faithful,  Faithfulness.  .  .  l()S8h  (Hodge) 

cf     Doctrine     of,      in 

Habakkuk 1313"  (Eiselen) 

Faithfulness  of  God 

In  NT 1090" 

In  OT 108Sb 

cf  Immutability 14Glh 

cf  Righteousness 2591"  (McConnell) 

cf  Truth 3025"  (Carver) 

cf    Unchangeable,   Un- 

changeableness 3033"  (Hodge) 

Faithful  Sayings 1091"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Poetry,  NT 2414b  (Schcnk). 

Faithless l()91h 

Falcon 1091h  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Hawk 1345"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Fall  (noun) 1092"  (Bavinck) 

cf  Adam  in  OT  and 
Apoc 49a  (Genung) 

cf  Adam  in  OT  (Evo- 
lutionary Interpre- 
tation)   52"  (Genung) 

Babylonian  seal 1093" 

Character  of 1093b 

And  Evolution 1093" 

Meaning  of  Gen  3  ....  1092" 

In  the  OT  and  NT. .  .  .  1092b 

cf  Psychology 2498''  (Marais) 

Fall  (verb) 1092"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Falling  Stars 1094" 

cf  Astronomy 300h  (Maunder) 

Fallow 1094" 

cf  Ground 1307"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

False  Christs G28b  (Orr) 

cf  Lie,  Lying 1887"  (W.  Evans) 

Falsehood 746b  (Ilirsch) 

cf  Lie,  Lying 1887"  (W.  Evans) 

False  Prophets 1094a 

cf  Lie,  Lying 1887a  (W.  Evans) 

cf  Prophcsyings,  False  2466b  (Schenk) 
False  Swearing,  Witness.  1094a 

cf  Crimes 745b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Lie,  Lying 1887"  (W.  Evans ) 

cf  Oath 2172b  (Levertoff) 

Fame.  .  1094a  (W.  L.  Walker) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Familiar.  .  .  .1094-  (Pollard) 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf     Communion     with 

Demons GS9b  (Sweet) 

Familiar  Spirit 

cf  Vault 304Gb 

cf  Witch 3097"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Family 10941'  (Caverno) 

cf  Affinity GG"  (W.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Covetousness 733b  (W.  Evans) 

cf  Divorce  in  OT 8G3b  (W.  \V.  Davies) 

Equality  of  sexes 1095" 

Fifth  Commandment. .  109f>'' 

Foundation  of l()94b 

cf    Hammurabi,    Code 

of 1330"  (Ungnad) 

cf  Heredity 137G"  (Easton) 

cf  Husband's  Brotlier  .  14421'  (Crannell) 

Modern  dangers 1096b 

Monogamy  the  ideal.  .  1095" 

In  NT 1096b 

cf  Patrimony 22G4"  (Mack) 

Polygamy 1 095" 

cf  Polygamy 2416a  (Caverno) 

Reforms  of  Ezra  and 
Nehemiah 1090" 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily  2554"  (N.  and  E.D.Isaacs) 

Seventh       Command- 
ment  1095b 

Teachings  of  Jesus. .  .  .  1096b 

Teachings  of  Paul.  .  .  .  109Gb 

Tenth  Commandment  109G" 
Family  Relationships.  .  .2554"  (N.  andE.D.  Isaacs) 

Famine 1097"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Famish 1097b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fan,  Fanner 1097b  (Patch) 

Fancy 1097b 

Far,  Farther 10971'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Far  House 1098" 

cf  Beth-merhak 450b 

Fare 1098"  (Williams) 

cf  Farewell 1098"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Farewell 10983  (W.  L.  Walker ) 

cf  Fare 1098a  (Williams) 

cf  Greeting 1305a  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Farm 1098"  (Patch) 

Farthing 1098b 

cf  Penny 2298a 

Fashion 1098b  (Edwards 

Fast,  Fasting 1099"  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Abstinence 24b  (Eager) 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1G41"  (Orrj 

Fasts  and  Feasts 1103a  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Fat  (figurative) 1100a  (Luering) 

Fat  (in  sacrifice) 1099b  (Luering) 

cf  Fowl  (Fatted) 1 142b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Grease 1294a 

cf  Kidneys 1797b  (Easton) 

Father.  .  .  .1100"  (Crannell) 


Father  (Ah) 

Father,  God  (lie.  . 

cf  Children  of  G< 

cf  Trinity 

Father-in- Law . 

cf  Family .  .  . 

cf  Relationships, 

iiy 

Fatherless 

cf  Orphan .  . 
Father's  Brother. 

cf  Family  ... 


1100b  (Orr) 

d..  .  .GOS"  (Reesi 

.  .3012"  (Warfield) 
. . .1101" 

.109  I1'  (Caverno) 
Fam- 

.  .  .2554"  (N.  and  E.  1).  Isaacs) 
.  .  .1101"  (Edwards) 

2202" 

. . .1101" 
.  .1094''  (Caverno) 


cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily   .2554°  (N.andE.  I).  Isaacs) 

Father's  House,  Fathers' 

Houses.  .  ...  .1101"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fathom ll()lb 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Falling,  Fatted 

cf  Calf .  .  542"  (Day) 

cf  Fat  (in  sacrifice)  .  .  .  l()99b  (Luering) 

Fatness 1101b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fauchion 

cf  Scimitar 2703" 

Fault .  .  .1101b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Favor 1102"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fawn 

cf  Deer 817"  (Day) 

Fear 1102"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fearful 1102"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fearfully 1102"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fcarfulness 1102"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Feast  of  Ingathering 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .  1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 
Feast  of  Tabernacles 

cf  Goodly  Trees 127Sh  (Masterman) 

Feasting 

cf  Triclinium 3011"  (N.  Isaacs) 

Feasts  and  Fasts 1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

cf  Fast,  Fasting 1099"  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Solemn,  Solemnity.  .2821''  (Easton) 
Feasts,  Seasons  for 1104" 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Feathers 1104''  (Stratton-Porter) 

Feeble  Knees 1104b  (Luering) 

cf  Palsy 223G"  (Macalister) 

Feeble-minded 1105" 

Feeling 1105"  (Luering) 

Feet,  Washing  of 3()72h  (Anderson;   Kurtz) 

cf  Foot 1 125"  (Luering) 

cf     Hair,     Symbolical 

Tse 132 lb  (Luering) 

cf  Lord's  Supper 1929"  (Kurtz) 

Feign 1105"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Felix  Antonius 1105b  (Kerr) 

cf  Assassins 2SS:1  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Festus,  Porcius ll()7a  (Kerr) 

cf  Gallio HG7b  (Kerr) 

cf  Governor 12S9b  (Heidel) 

cf  Paul 2272"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Tertullus.  .  .  .2949b  (Kerr) 


3240 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Felloes 

.  110i>"                                                       Finder  fmoMsnrp  ) 

llllb 

3079"  (Porter) 
llllb  (W.  L.  Walker) 
llllb  (W.  L.  Walker) 
llllb  (Masterman) 
1112"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
1447b  (Cobern) 
2074a  (Xicol) 

399b  (Kapp) 
2074"  (Xicol) 
1822"  (Vos) 
11121' 
1112"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
3038*  (Orr) 
11121'  (W.  L.  Walker) 
514" 
1113"  (Harrv) 
587b  (T.  Lewis) 
1113" 
1113" 

3079"  (Porter) 
300b  (Maunder) 
1113"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
1113"  (Recs);  426b  (Rees) 
1  1  13b  (T.  Lewis) 
1113b  (T.  Lewis) 
GOGb  (Stearns) 
G5Gb  (T.  Lewis) 
1113-''  (Rees) 
13G9"  (Easton) 
.2105b  (Kyle) 
244G1'  (Wiener) 
24521'  (X.  Isaacs) 
1114" 
1114"  (Levertoff) 
2446b  (Wiener) 
29S7b  (LevertorT) 

2G241'  (Rutherfurd) 
11141'  (Day) 
1115" 
.1115" 
1123b  (Eager) 
3082"  (Day) 
.1115''  (Patch) 

1G07"  (Masterman) 
20GG1'  (Masterman) 
111G" 
875b  (Eager) 
.  111G"  (Patch) 

cf  Wheel 

30S2b  (Easton) 

cf  Weights  and   Meas 
ures  

Fellow 

HOG"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.1100"  (W.  L.  Walker 

.OSS1'  (Miller) 
11001'  (Luering) 
11001'  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.  1300b  (Masterman) 

11361'  (Xicol) 
L100h  (Day) 
.592"  (Day) 
1181a 
190G"  (Day) 

2774"  (Xicol) 
.1107"  (W.  L.  Walk(>r) 

.  1103"  !,!•:.  D.  Isaacs) 
1107"  i.Kerr) 
.IK);")1'  (Kern 
11C.71'  (Kern 
.  12S91'  (Heidelj 
2272"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 
1107b  (W.  L.  Walker) 
11071' 
."xS9a  (Fortune 
11071'  (Macalister) 
7S"  (Macalister) 
.1108b 
.  14GS" 

.7;")''  (  Patch) 

11  .")()'• 
,1108h 

11071'  (Macalister) 

2730"  (Dav) 

Fellow-citizen,        Fello\\ 
disciple,  Fellow-heirs  . 
Fellowship 
cf  Communion  

Finish  

Finisher  . 

Fir,  Fir-tree  .                  .  . 

Fire  .  . 

cf  Idolatry  

cf  Molech  

cf  Hedge  
Fenced  Cities 
cf  Fortification    

Fire  Baptism 
cf  Baptism  of  Fire  .  .  . 
cf  Molech  . 

Fire,  Lake  of  
Fire,  Strange 

Ferret                      .    .    . 

cf  Chameleon  
cf  Gecko 

cf  Fire  

Fire,  Unquenchable.  .  .  . 
Firebrand    . 

cf  Lizard  

Ferry-boat 
cf  Ships  and  Boats.  . 
Fervent,  Fervently.  .  .  . 
Fest  ival 
cf  Feasts  and  Fasts 
Festus,  Porcius  
cf  Felix  Antonius  .... 
cf  Gallic  

cf  Brand  
Firepan 

cf  Censer  

Fires 

Firkin           

cf  Weights  and  Meas 
ures  
Firmament 

cf  Governor  

First 

cf  Paul  

Fetch    

cf  Firstborn,  Firstling. 
Firstborn,  Firstling  .... 

Fet  1  ci- 

cf  Cham 

cf  Child    

cf  Circumcision  

cf  Ague.  . 
cf  Fiery  Heat  
cf  Inflammat  ion  
Field 
cf  Agriculture  
Fierceness 
cf  Furv 

cf  First-begotten 

cf  Heir      .... 

cf  Plagues  of  Egypt    . 
cf  Priests  and  Levites 
cf  Primogeniture  
Redemption  of  

First-fruits 

cf  Priests  and  Levites. 
cf  Tithe    

Fiery  1  1  eat  
cf  Fever 

First,  Principles 
cf  Rudiments  

Fiery  Serpent 
cf  Serpent 

Fish 

Fig,  Fig-tree  
cf  Food  

.  11  OS1'  (Masterman) 
.1122''  (Eager) 

Fishing                    .    .  . 

Fight 

cf  Games  

.110S1'  (Smith) 
.30G9b  (Xicol) 

cf  Sea  Food 

cf  Wh'ilc 

cf  War        

Fisher,  Fisherman  
Fish  Gate 
cf  Jerusalem 

Figure 

.1109''  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.1110" 

209!)"  (Easton) 

File.  . 
cf  Tools 

Fillet                

.1110"  (RafTetv) 

Fisher's  Coat  

Filth,  Filthiness,  Filthy, 
cf  Uncleanness  
Fin 
cf  Fish 

.UK)1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 
,303;-)b  (Williams) 

.11141'  (Day) 
UK)1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Dress              

Fishhook            

cf  Fishing 

111G"  (Patch) 
111G"  (Patch) 
.1110"  (Patch) 

Fishing  

Fine 

cf  Fishhook  

Finer,  Fining 
cf  Refiner  
Fines 

cf  Punishments 

.2545"  (Patch) 

.2504b  (Hirsch) 
1  1"  (  Lueriiiu) 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of  .... 

.  11G5"  (Ewing) 

Fishpools                      .  . 

.1117" 

Fit   Fitly 

1117"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.1117"  (Masterman) 
.1121b  (Eager) 

Fitches  (Vetch)  
cf  Food     . 

Finder  .  . 

GF;XERAL 1XDEX 


3241 


Five 
cf  Number                   .  . 

21f)7"  (Smith) 
11171' 
2544"  (Masterman) 

1117''  (Ilovey) 
30S(>>>  (Easton) 
1  117b  (Luering) 
11171'  (W.  L.  Walker) 
1112"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
11171'  (Macalister) 
111S"  (Masterman) 
IS94'1  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

2501''  (Hirsch) 
HIS1'  (Day) 
1240"  (Day) 
lSS(ib  (Day) 
2688b 

1121"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

122t)b  (Schenk) 
2756''  (Day) 
3104b  (Patch) 

257b  (Allen) 
lllSb  (Luering) 
25(>5"  (Easton) 
2S051'  (I)unelm) 
2S411'  (Marais) 

1119b 

111S'>  (Lucring) 
111!)1'  (Doolan) 
1419"  (Easton) 
1119b 
1121''  (Eager) 

11201'  (Day) 
2(04b  (Kyle) 
1119"  (Day) 
2590"  (Day) 
2S5(>"  (Day) 

2774"  (Xicol) 

f>S3b  (Day) 
1120"  (Day) 
S21b  (Wright) 

230"  (Kyle) 

1  131''  (A.C.  Dickie) 
297f>b  (Patch) 

2774"  (Xicol) 

r)14b  (Eager) 
1121''  (Eager) 
1120"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
100"  (Masfermanj 

Flowers     (Bloom,     Bio 
som,  etc)  
cf  Botany  
Flue  Net 
cf  Fish 

.  1120b  (Masterman) 
.505"  (Masterman) 

11141'  (Dav) 

Flag 

cf  Reed 

Flagon  
cf  Wine 

cf  Fishing  
Flute 
cf  Music  .  . 
Flux 
cf  Blood  v  Flux 

.lllti"  (Patch) 
.2094''  (Millar) 
490b  (Macalister) 

Flake 

Flame 

cf  Firo        

Flat  Xose.  . 
Flax  . 
cf  Linen             

cf  Dysentery  
My  (verb)                  .... 

.SS4b  (Macalister) 
.1121"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Flv,  Mies 
cf  Plague 

.1120''  (Day) 
.2402''  (Macalister) 

Flaying 

Foal  

.1121" 

cf  Punishments  
Flea  .  . 

cf  Colt 

.078"  (Dav) 

cf  Gnat 

Fodder 

cf  Provender  
Fold,  Folding  
cf  House  
Folk 

.24l>9''  (Masterman) 
.1121"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.1434''  (A.  C.  Dickie) 
1121b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Lice 

cf  Sand  Flies  
Flee 
cf  Flv  (verb)  

Fleece 
cf  Gideon                     .  .  . 

Folk-lore 
cf  Night-monster 

Follow  
Follower  

.2144"  (Sweet) 
.1121''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Sheep  
cf  Wool 

Fleet,  Roman  
Flesh                   

Folly 

cf  Fool              

.1124"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Food  

.  .1121''  (Eager) 
.  .  1  .V'  (Iviger) 

cf  Resurrection  
cf  Sinlessness 

cf  Abomination.  .    .  . 

cf  Apple             

.  .209"  (Masterman) 

cf  Spirit                       .  .  . 

cf  Bread                   .  .  . 

.  ,r,14b  (Eager) 

Flesh  and  Blood  
cf  Flesh 

Butter               

.  .1123b 

Cereals  

.  .1122" 

()()7b  (Crannell) 

Flesh-hook  

cf  Hook  

71  n» 

Flesh-pot  

cf  Fitches 

1117"  (Masterman) 

cf  Food  

1119b 

Flies 
cf  Fly,  Mies  
cf  Plagues  of  Egypt  .  . 
Flint 

Goat  

.  .1123" 

cf  Honey 

.  .141S1'  (Patch) 

Leguminous  plants  . 
cf  Locust  

.1122" 
.  .1907''  (Day) 

cf  Rock  
cf  Stone,  Stones  
Float  (Flote) 
cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  . 
Flock 

cf  Meal 

.2013b 

cf  Meals,  Meal-time, 
cf  Milk  
cf  Mill           

.  .2013''  (Eager) 
.  .20.')  lb  (X.  Isaacs) 
.  .2052"  (Patch) 

cf  Oil         

.  .2182''  (Patch) 

cf  Pot  

.2423"  (Betteridgc) 

Flood 

Primitive  habits 

1121b 

cf  Salt 

2tH)4"  (Patch) 

cf  Deluge  of  Xoah  .  .  . 
cf    Geological    Theory 
of  

Sheep 

.  1  123b 

Of  trees 

.1122b 

cf  I  "ncleanness 

30311"  (Williams) 

Floor 
cf  House  
cf  Threshing-floor. 

cf  Wheat  
cf  Wine  
Fool,  Folly  
cf  Wisdom 

.  .3()S2b  (Masterman) 
.  .30SO"  (Easton) 
.  .1121"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
30S9"  (Easton) 

Flote  (Float) 
cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  . 
Flour 
cf  Bread  
cf  Food  
Flourish 

Foolery 

112.-)"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Foot 

.  1  125"  (Luering) 

Foot  gear 

.  .S79"  (Eager) 

cf  Shoe,  Shoe-latchet 
Footman 
cf  War  

.2779"  (Easton) 
.  .301)9''  (Xicol) 

cf  Almond  

3242 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Footstool H2(>"  (Doohui) 

cf  Neck 2129"  (Lueringi 

For H2C)1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Foray 1 12C>'> 

cf  War 306!)''  (Xicol) 

Forbear 112C)b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Forbearance 112C)1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Forbid 1127"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Forces 1 127" 

Ford 1127"  (Day) 

cf  Jordan 1732b  (Wright) 

Forecast 11271'  (W.  I,.  Walker) 

Forefather 1127h 

Forefront 1 1271'  (W.  I..  Walker) 

Forego 

cf  Forgo 113f>h 

Forehead 1 1271'  (  Luering) 

cf  Face lOS")'1  (Luering) 

cf  Taw 291S" 

Foreign  Divinit  ies 

cf  (iods  (Strange.) 1272"  (  Bet  t"ridge' 

Foreigner 1 12*' 

cf  Alien.  .  .97"  (Ilirscln 

cf    Stranger     and     So- 

journer  in  the  OT..  .2X0.?'  (Wiener) 
Foreknow,       Foreknowl- 
edge  112S"  (Hodge) 

And  foreordination  .  .  .1129'' 

cf  Knowledge 1S151'  (Orr) 

cf  Omniscience 2191"  (Yos) 

cf  Predestination 2135"  (J.  Lindsay) 

Foreordain,         Foreordi- 
nation  11 31"  (Orr);  1 129'- (Hodge) 

cf  Choose (112b  (Kees) 

cf  Election 925b  (Dnnehn) 

cf  Judas  as  Betrayer.  .  17(>(>b  (Kerr) 

cf  Predestination 243")"  (J.  Lindsay) 

cf  Providence 247(>b  (Tillett) 

cf  Purpose  of  God.  .  .  .2f>10" 

Forepart 1131" 

Forerunner 1 131"  (W.  Evans) 

cf  John  the  Baptist  .  .  .  170S1'  (Miller) 
Foresail 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.      .2774"  (Xicol) 
Foreship 

cf  Forepart  .  .  .  .1131" 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Xicol) 

Foreskin 1 131h  (Lueringi 

cf  Circumcision (>5(>h  (T.  Lewis, 

cf  Concision (i9(ib 

Forest 1132"  (Masterman) 

cf  Botany f>()f)"  (Mastennan) 

cf  Thicket 2972" 

Forest  of  Ephraim 9(>3b 

cf  Ephraim 963''  (Ewing- 

Foretell,  Foretold 1132" 

cf  Prophecy 24f>9b  (Orelli) 

Forfeit 1 132"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Forge,  Forger 1 132b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Forget,  Forgetful 11321'  (W.  L.  Walker) 


Forgiveness.  ...  .  .  .H32>>  (Morro) 

cf  Absolution 24"  (Jacobs) 

And  atonement 1 135a 

cf  Atonement (i27b  (Orr) 

cf  Blasphemy 485'1  (Kees) 

Etymology 1132h 

cf  Hope.  .  14191'  (East.on) 

cf  Keys,  Power  of 1794"  (Carver) 

cf  Law  in  XT  .  .  .  1S44"  (M'Caig) 

Limitations.  .  .  ...  ll.'U1' 

OT  teaching    .  .  . 1134b 

Pagan       and       Jewish 

ideas 113:!" 

cf  Remission  2.").")71)  (Jacobs) 

cf  Salvation.  .  .2fi(>X"  (East  on) 

Teaching  of  Jesus 1133" 

Forgo .  ..1135b 

Fork .1136" 

Form.  .  n;;r,:'  ,\y.  L.  Walker.) 

Former.  .  .  H3C>'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fornicat  ion 

cf  Crimes.  .  ...  .  745b  (Ilirscln 

Forswear 

cf  Crimes    .  ...  .745''  (Hirsch) 

Fort  .  .  n;i()b  (Xi(.()i) 

Forth.  li3(}i.  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fortification 1136b  (Xicol) 

cf  Canaan 549"  (Sayce) 

cf  City..  <)d2"  (A.C.  Dickie) 

cf  Corner-stone 721b  (Mack) 

Gates 1138" 

cf  Gate.  .  .  .  .  1175b  (Easton) 

cf  Ge/er 1222"  (Masterman) 

cf  Hold.  1403" 

cf  Jerusalem 1595h  (Masterman) 

Masonry.  .  .  113S" 

Recent  excavations.  .  .1137" 

cf  Siege 27S(i«  (Xicol) 

Towers.     .  .  .  .H37h 

Wells H37b 

Fortified  (Fenced)  Cities  1130b  (Xicol) 

Fortress .  .  .113lib  (Xicol) 

Fortress  of  Masada SOS"  (Wright) 

Fortunatus 1141a 

Fortune 1141"- 

cf  Divination StiO"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Forty 1141" 

<•*'  Four  .  .  .1142"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Xumber.  .  ...  .2157"  (Smith) 

Forum 1141" 

Forum  (Appii  ....  11  1 11 

cf  Market  of  Appius..  209"  (Allen) 
Forward,  Forwardness..  .1141"  (\\ .  L.  Walker) 

Foul 1141b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Foundation 1141b  (Orr) 

Foundat  ion  Sacrifices 
cf     Palestine,      Recent 

Exploration 222Sb  (Cobern) 

Founder 

cf  Goldsmith 1275"  (Patch) 

cf  Kefiner.  .  .  .2545"  (Patch) 


GENERAL   IXDEX 


3243 


Fountain 11  tl1'  (Day) 

cf  Cistern,  Well,    Pool, 

Aqueduct 057b  (A.  G.  Dickie) 

cf  En-eglaim ',)  I  lb 

cf  En-gedi.  .  .  .  .945"  (Wright) 

cf  En-rogel 953''  (Masteniian) 

cf  Water.  .  .  .  .  .  .3074"  (Joy) 

cf  Well 30X1"  (Day) 

Fountain  Gate 

cf  Jerusalem 1000b  (Masteniian) 

Four 11  12"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Four  Hundred 11  12b 

cf  Four 1M21'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Four  Thousand 11  12h 

cf  Four 11 12'-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fourfold 11421' 

Fourscore 1 142b 

cf  Four 1M21'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Number 2 157"  (Smith) 

Foursquare.  ...  .  .11  12''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fourteen 1142'' 

cf  Number 2157-'  (Smith) 

Fourth  Part 1112b 

cf  Four 1142"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fowl 1142b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fowl  (Fatted) 

cf  Fat  (in  sacrifice)  .  .  .  1009b  (Lucring) 

cf  Fowl 1142b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fowler 1143"  (Stratton-Porterj 

cf  Hunting 1440"  (Smith) 

cf  Snare 2S19a  (Stratton-Porter) 

Fox !U3b  (Day) 

cf  Dragon 873"  (Day) 

cf  Jackal 154Sa  (Day) 

Fragment 1144"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Frame 1144b  (Luering) 

Frank  Mountain 

cf  Jerusalem 161  lb  (Mastcrman) 

Frankincense 11441'  (Masteniian) 

cf  Incense 1400b  (Orr) 

Frankly 1115" 

Fray 1145" 

cf  War 3009''  (Nicol) 

Freckled  Spot 1145" 

cf  Leprosy 1807"  (Macalisler) 

cf  Spot,  Spotted 2X4I)1'  (Macalister) 

cf  Tet  ter 2950" 

Free,  Freedom 

cf  Choose 612b  (Rees) 

cf  Will 30X5"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Freedman 1145" 

Freedom,  Human 

cf  Sin .  .  .2799"  (McConneU) 

Freely 1145"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Free  Will 

cf  Omniscience 21911'  (Vos) 

Freewill  Offering 1145b 

Freewoman 1145b 

Frequent 1145b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fresh 1145b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fret,  Fretting 1145b  (W.  L.  Walker) 


cf  Bread 51  lb  (Eager) 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager; 

cf  Locusts 19071'  (Day; 

Friend,  Friendship 1140"  (Clippinger) 

Friends,  Chief  Friends  .  .  114(>" 

Fringes.  .  .  .  .114(5''  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

cf  Dress S75h  (Eager) 

cf  Horn.  .  1374"  (Eager) 

cf  Phylactery 23921'  (Mack; 

cf  Tassel 29171'  (Caldecott) 

Frock 11  17"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

cf  Dress X75b  (Eager; 

Frog .1147"  (Day) 

ef  Plagues  of  Egypt. . .  2  104b  (Kyle; 

Frontier 1 147" 

Frontlets 1147" 

cf  Phylactery 2392b  (Mack) 

Frost 1147"  (Joy) 

Fro  ward  ness 11471' 

Fruit 11471' 

cf  Apple 209"  (Masterman) 

cf  Botany 505a  (Masterman) 

cf  Fig 110Xb  (Masterman) 

cf  Food 1122b  (Eager) 

cf  Vine 3049b  (Masterman) 

cf  Wine 30SOb  (Easton) 

Frustrate '.  .  .  1147b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Frying-pan 1147b 

cf  Bread 514b  (Eager) 

cf  Pan 2237"  (Betteridge) 

Fuel 1147''  (Doolan) 

Fugitive 1148" 

Fulfil 1148"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Fuller 1148"  (Patch) 

cf  Wool 3104b  (Patch) 

Fuller's  Field 1148a  (Masterman) 

cf  Gihon 1228b  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 1008"  (Masterman) 

Fuller's  Fountain 1148b 

cf  En-rogel 953b  (Masterman) 

Fulness 1148b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Gnosticism 1240"  (Rutherfurd) 

Funeral 1149b 

cf  Burial 529"  (Eager) 

Furlong 1149b 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Furnace 1149'"  (Eager) 

Furnaces,  Tower  of  the.  .  1 149b 

cf  Jerusalem 1595b  (Masterman) 

Furnish 1149b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Furniture 1150a  (Reeve) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Tabernacle 2S87b  (Caldecott;    Orr) 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldecott;   Orr; 

Furrow 1150a  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 75b  (Patch) 

cf  Plow 2409"  (Patch) 

Further,  Furtherance..  .  .1150b  (W.  L.  Walker) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Fury 11  .-><)'> 

<:f  Anger 1351'  (Farr) 

cf  Wrath 3113"  (W.  Evans) 

Future 1150b 

cf  Eschatology,  NT.  .  .979''  (Vos) 

Future  Life 

cf  Greece,  Religion  in.  .1303-''  (Fairbanks) 

Gaal 1150" 

cf  Abimelech II1'  (Mack) 

Gaash 1150" 

cf  Ephraim,  Mount  .  .  .963'' 

cf  Timnath-heres 29S31  (Ewing) 

Gaba 1150" 

cf  Gcl)a 11S()»  (Ewing) 

Gabacl  (Apoc) 11501' 

cf  Gabrias  (Apoc) 1151" 

Gal>atha  (Apoc) 11  50h 

Gal)bai 1150b 

Gabbatha 1150b  (Mastorman) 

cf  Judgment  Scat 177S" 

cf  Pavement 2292b 

cf  Pilate,  Pontius 23971'  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Praetorium 242Sb  (Mastennan) 

Gabbe,  Gabdcs  (Apoc;  .  .  1151" 

cf  Geba 11  SO"  (Ewing) 

Gabrias  (Apoc) 1151" 

cf  Gdbael  (Apoc) 11501' 

Gabriel 1151"  (Orr) 

cf  Angel 132b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Gad  (tribe) 

History llf>lb 

Gad  (verb) lir>2b 

Gad,  God  of  Good  Luck  llf)2"  (Stearns) 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Meni 2033" 

Gail,  Seer  of  David 11 52"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Gad,  Son  of  Jacob 1151a  (Ewing) 

Gad,  Valley  of  (River  of)  1152b  (Ewing) 

cf  Ar 211"  (Ewing) 

Gadara 1152b  (Ewing) 

cf  Decapolis SI 5"  (Ewing) 

cf  Gerasa 1217b  (Ewing) 

cf  Gergesenes 121S" 

Gadarenes 1153" 

cf  Cadara 1152b  (Ewing) 

cf  Gergesenes 121S" 

Gaddi 1153a 

Gaddiel 1153a 

Gaddis  (Apoc) 1153" 

Gadh  and  Meni.  .  .299" 

Gadi 1153a 

Gadites 1153b 

Gaham 1153b 

Gahar 1153b 

cf  Geddur  (Apoc) 11  SI1' 

Gai 11531' 

Gam 1153b  (Williams) 

Gainsay,  Gainsayer,  Gain- 
saying  1153b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gaius 1154a  (Kerr) 

cf  John,  Epp.  of 1718b  (Law) 


Galaad  (Gilead) 1151" 

Galal 1151" 

Galalia ]  154.1  (Ramsay) 

Churches  of 1 155" 

Evangelization  of 1155" 

cf  Galatians,  Ep.  to.H55b  (G.  G.  Find  lay) 

Gaulish  kingdom 1154b 

Geographical  and  po- 
litical  1154a 

cf  Location  of 1159b  (G.  G.  Findlay) 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle..  .2283"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Region 255()b 

Roman  Province 1154b 

Galatians  in  Asia  Minor. 275"  (Calder) 

cf  Galatia 1154"  (Ramsay) 

Paul's  use  of 1155" 

Galatians,  Epistle  to  the  1155b  (G.  G.  Findlay) 

Antiochs,  the  two 1102a 

Authorship 1156" 

Barnabas  in 1161b 

Characteristics  of 115S" 

Contents 1156b 

Controversial    features 

of 11571' 

Destination  and  date. .  1159" 

cf  Galatia 1154"  (Ramsay) 

cf  Law  in 1850"  (M'Caig) 

Literature  on ll('>2b 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle.  .  .22S3"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Peter  and  Paul  in llb'O1' 

Relations     to     Corin- 
thians  115Sb 

Relations  to  Romans.  .1158" 

Time  notes  in 1160b 

Galbanum 1163"  (Mastennan) 

Galeed 1163"  (Ewing) 

Galgala  (Apoc) 1163a 

cf  Gilgal 1231"  (Wright) 

Galilean 

cf  Galilee 1163"  (Ewing) 

Galilee 1163"  (Ewing) 

Ancient  boundaries.  .  .1163" 

cf  Asher 26S1'  (Ewing) 

Description  of 116  lb 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of 1165"  (Ewing) 

cf  Issachar 1541b  (Ewing) 

cf  Naphtali 211Sb  (Ewing) 

In  NT  times 1164a 

In  OT  times 1163b 

cf  Palestine 2221"  (Conder) 

Population 1165a 

Products  of 1164b 

Zebulun  and  Naphtali  1163a 
Galilee,  Mountain  in.  .  .  .1165" 

Galilee,  Sea  of 1165"  (Ewing) 

cf  Capernaum 566b  (Ewing) 

Description  of 1165b 

Fish  in 1166b 

cf  Fishing 1116"  (Patch) 

cf  Galilee 1163a  (Ewing) 

cf  Gennesaret,  Land  of  1214b  (Ewing) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Galileo,  Sea  of— continued 

cf  Jordan 173: 

Storms  on 1  166" 

Gall.  .  1166''  (Masto 

Gallant  .  .  .1167" 


(Nicol) 
(N.  Isaacs) 
.2218''  (Condor) 
.2935''  (Caldecot  t; 


cf  Ships  and  Boat 
Gallery .... 

cf  Palestine 

cf  Temple 

Galley 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 

Gallim 11671'  (Mastorman) 

Gallio 11671'  (Kern 

cf  Felix  Antonius 1105''  (Kerr) 

cf  Festns,  Porcius 1107"  (Kerr) 

cf  Lysias 1943''  (Hutchison) 

Gallows 

cf  Hanging 1335b  (Hirseh) 

cf  Punishments 250  lb  (Hirsch) 

Gamael  (Apoc) 1168" 

Gamaliel 1168"  (Kerr) 

cf  Theudas 2972"  (Kerr) 

Game 1123b  (Eager) 

Games 1 168b  (Smith) 

Archery 1169" 

Beast  fighting 1172" 

For  children 1168b 

Dancing 1169b 

Dice 1169" 

cf  Discus 854"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Ecclesiastes 894''  (Beecher) 

cf  Ecclesiasticus 2806b  (T.  W.  Davios) 

Of  Greece  and  Rome.  .1171" 

cf  Herald 1375" 

Proverbs 1170" 

cf  Proverbs,  Book  of  .2471b  (Genung) 

Racing 11721' 

Riddles 1170b 

cf  Tale 2904"  (T.  Lewis) 

Gammadim 11 7)5'' 

Gamul 1173'' 

Gangrene 1173''  (Macalistor) 

Gap 1173b 

Gar 1174" 

cf  Gas 1175b 

Garden 1174"  (Patch) 

cf  Irrigation 1492b  (Patch) 

cf  Jerusalem 1603"  (Masterman) 

cf  Paradise 2246"  (Wright) 

Garden  of  Gethsemane 

cf  Olives,  Mount  of.  .  ,2187b  (Masterman) 
Garden,  The  King's  ....  1175"  (Orr) 

cf  Jerusalem 1595''  (Masterman) 

Garden-house 1175" 

cf  Beth-haggan 445b 

cf  En-gannim 945"  (Ewing) 

Gardener 1175" 

cf  Watchman 3074"  (Christie) 

Gareb 1175a 

cf  Gibeatli 1225b  (Ewing) 

cf  Ira 1491"  (Farr) 

Gareb,  Hill  of 1175"  (Masterman) 


Garizim 

cf  Geri/im,  Mount  ....  121S"  (lowing  > 
Garland 1175"  (Doolani 

cf  Crown 762"  (Haffetyj 

Garlic 1  175''  i'. Masterman,) ;    1  1 

(Eager) 
Garment 

cf  Dress 875''  (Eager; 

Garmite 11 75'1 

cf  Keilah 1791"  (Masteniian) 

Garner 1 175'1 

G:irnish H75b  (Hoove) 

( larrison 

cf  War 30691'  (Nicol) 

Gas 11751' 

Gaslimu 1 175b 

cf  Geshem 1219b  (Reeve) 

Gatam 1175b 

Gate 11751'  (Easton) 

cf  City 662"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Fortification 1138"  (Nicol) 

cf  Jerusalem 1606b  (Masterman) 

cf  Lift 1S901'  (Easton) 

cf  Tabernacle 28S7b  (Caldecot t;  Orr) 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldecot t;  Orn 

Gate,  The  Beautiful 1176b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Gate,  East 11 761'  (Caldecott ) 

cf  Temple 2937''  (Caldecott ;  Orr) 

Gate,  Corner 1176" 

cf  Jerusalem 1606"  (Masterman) 

Gate,  East 11761'  (Caldecott) 

cf  Gate,  The  Beautiful  .1176''  (Caldecott) 

cf  Harsith 13  H" 

cf  Shecaniah 2754b  (Wolf) 

cf  Tabernacle 2887b  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Gate,  Fountain 

cf  Jerusalem 1606''  (Masterman) 

( !ato  of  Ilammiphkad 

cf  Jerusalem  Gates. .  .  .  16021'  (Masterman) 
Gate,  Horse 

cf  Jerusalem 1607"  (Masterman; 

Gate,  Sur 

cf  Jerusalem 1606"  (Masterman) 

Gate,  Valley 1177" 

cf  Jerusalem 1607b  (Masterman) 

Gtith 1177"  (Porter) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2227"  (Cobern) 

cf  Wine 3086b  (Easton) 

Gather 11771'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gatherer,  Gathering.  .  .  .  1177''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gath-hepher 1178"  (Ewing) 

Gath-riinmon 1178"  (Ewing) 

cf  Ibleam 1446"  (Ewing) 

Gaulonitis 1178" 

cf  Golan 1273b  (Ewing) 

Gauls 1178"  (Hutchison) 

Gaza H78b  (Porter) 

cf  Azzah 345b 

cf  Gazathites  (Gazites)1179a 
Gaxar  (Gezer) .  .  .  .1222b  (Masterman) 


3246 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Gazara  (Gaz/am) 1179"  (Ewing) 

cf  Gazcra 11 791' 

cf  Gozor 122:2'  (Masterman) 

Gazathites  (Gazites)    ...  1 179" 

cf  Ga/.a 117S1'  (Porter) 

Gazelle 1179"  (Day) 

cf  Door 817"  (Day) 

cf  Goat 124S1-  (Day) 

cf  Roo,  Roebuck 2597"  (Day) 

cf  Zoology 31.",.?'  (Day) 

Ga/or 11791' 

cf  Cozor 1222-  (Mastorman) 

Gazera 1179b 

cf  Gazara 1179'  (Ewing) 

Gazoz 11791' 

Gazing-stoek 117')1'  (W.  I,  Walker) 

Caziles  (Gazathitos)  .  .  .  .1179" 

Gazzam  (Gazara) 11  SO" 

Goba 1180-  (Ewing) 

cf  Giboah 122,")"  (Ewing) 

Gobal 11  SO"  (Porter) 

cf  Gobalilos 11  SO1'  (Hovoyj 

cf  Mason 2007" 

cf  Tammuz 2908"  (Porter) 

Gebalites 1180" 

cf  Gebal .  .1180"  (Porter) 

Gober  (Ben-sober) 11  SO1'  (Downer) 

Gebini 11  SO1' 

Gecko 11  SI" 

cf  Ferret HOC.'-  (Day) 

cf  Lizard 1901)"  (Day) 

cf  Spider 28 4()'>  (Day) 

Gedaliah 1 181"  (Crichton) 

cf  Governor  of  Judah.571"  (Nicol) 

cf  Islnnael ir.101'  (Baur) 

Geddur 11  SI1' 

cf  Gahar 1153'' 

Godeon 

cf  Gideon 122(V-  (Schenk) 

Geder 11S11' 

Gederah,  Gederathito.     .  11S11' 

cf  Godorothaiin 1 182a 

cf  Hodge 1366b  (Masterman) 

Gederite 

cf  Goder 11S11' 

Godoroth 11S11'  (Ewing) 

Goderothaim 11S2" 

cf  Goderah 118 11' 

Gedor 1181"  (Ewing) 

cf  Simeon 2794"  (Masterman) 

Geese 1124"  (Eager) 

Ge-harashim 1182" 

cf  Joab 1677b  (Roberts  i 

Gohazi 1182"  (Criohton; 

Gehenna 1183"  (Vos) 

cf  Eschatology  of  the 

NT 979b  (Vos) 

cf  Hell 1371"  (Orrj 

cf  Hinnom,  Valley  of.  .1393b  (Masterman) 
cf  Jehoshaphat,  Valley 

of l.r)S3a  (Masterman) 

cf  Kidron,  The  Brook  .  1798"  (Masterman) 


T 


Geliloth 1 183"  (Ewing) 

Gem   1183" 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2856"  (Fletcher; 

Gomalli H83b 

( lomara 

cf  Talmud 2904b  (Strack) 

Gemariah 1183b 

( lematria 

*'f  (James 1170b  (Smith) 

cf  Number 21621'  (Smith) 

<icnd(>r 11831'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Genealogy H83b  (Crannoll) 

cf  Abiud.  .  .  .  ,13b 

cf  Genealogy  of  Jesus 

Christ  .  .  .  .  .119(1"  (Sweet) 

Interpretation 1184b 

List  in  1  Chronicles.  .  .  11911' 

List  in  Exodus 1189" 

List  in  Ezra 119.")" 

List  in  Genesis 1186" 

List  in  1  Kings 1191b 

List  in  Luke 119f)b 

List  in  Matthew 119f>b 

List  in  Nehemiah 119")b 

List  in  Numbers 1189" 

List  in  Ruth 11901' 

List  in  2  Samuel 11901' 

cf  Patriarch 2264"  (Orr) 

cf  Pentateuch 23091'  (Wiener) 

Principles 1183b 

cfShutholah,  Shuthola- 
hites 2783" 

Trustworthiness 1184a 

Genealogy        of        Jesus 

Christ..  ..  .1196"  (Sweet) 

Comparison      of      ac- 
counts  1197'' 

Importance  of 1196a 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1634"  (Orr) 

In  Luke 1197" 

In  Matthew 119(5'' 

And  the  Virgin-birth.  .1198" 

cf  Virgin-birth 3052";  3054"  i  Sweet) 

General,  Generally 1199"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Generation 1199"  (Crannell) 

Genesis 1199b  (Mollerj 

Abraham,  family  of .  .  .  1207" 
Contents  and   connec- 
tion  1200" 

Critical  theory 1201" 

cf  Day  of  Atonement.  .324''  (Moller) 
The  Divine  names.  .  .  .  1203b 

Divisions 1206" 

Early  traditions  of. .  .  .  1211" 

Esau,  family  of 120S1' 

cf  Exodus,  Book  of .  .  .  l()56b  (Moller) 

cf  Ezekiel 1071"  (Moller) 

Historicity 1209b 

Isaac,  family  of 1208a 

Jacob,  family  of 1208b 

cf  Leviticus 1871b  (Moller) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3247 


Genesis — continued 

Mosaic  authorship   af- 
f  inner  I.  1212' 

Noah,  family  of  .  120G1' 

cf  Pentateuch 23()4b  (Wiener) 

Rejection       of      docu- 
mentary llieory 1202a 

TTnity  of  plan 12()()b 

Value  of .'.  .  . 1213b 

Geneva  Bible <)•!!)'>  (Hutchison) 

Gennacus  (Genneus)  ....  12141' 

cf  Apollonius 20()b  (Hutchison) 

Gennesaret,  Lake  of 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of HG5a  (Ewing) 

Gennesaret,  Land  of.  .  .  .  1214b  (lowing) 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of 1  lGf>a  (Ewing) 

Gentiles 121  .'>a  (Porter) 

cf  Grecians 1295a  (Ileidel) 

cf    Stranger    and    So- 

journer,  in  OT 28G5a  (Wiener) 

Gentiles,  Court  of 

cf  Temple 293O  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Gentiles,  Isles  of  the.  .  .  .ir>llb 

Gentleness,  Gentle 121")''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Kindness 1709"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Genubath 1215b 

Geography 

cf  Island loll*  (Day) 

cf  Xegeb 2130a  (Masterman) 

cf  Palestine 220Sb  (Conder) 

cf  Table  of  Nations .  .  .2X9Sb  (Pinches) 

cf\Vorld,Cosmological3106a  (Orr) 
Geology  of  Palestine.  .  .  .121f>b  (Day) 

cf  Jerusalem ]f)9Gb  (Masterman) 

cf  Jordan  Valley I73oa  (Wright ) 

cf  Palestine 2200»  (Conder; 

cf  Rock 2o9Ga  (Day) 

Geon 

cf  Gihon 1228b  (Masterman) 

Georgian  Versions 

cf  Versions,  Georgian.  .3048°  (Easton) 
Gephyrun 1217a 

cf  Ephron 9G4"  (Masterman) 

Gera 1217* 

Gerah 1217b 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures   3079a  (Porter) 

Gerar 1217b  (Porter) 

Gerasa,  Gerasenes 1217b  (E\\ring) 

cf  Gadara  (Gadarenes).1152b  (Ewing) 

cf  Ramoth-gilead 2.~>29"  (Ewing) 

Gergesenes 1218" 

cf  ( iadara  (Gadarenes) .  1 152b  (Ewing) 
Gerizim,  Mount 1218"  (Ewing) 

cf  Jerusalem  Hills l/>99b  (Masterman) 

cf  Moriah,  Land  of .  .  .  2()S2b  (Ewing) 

cf  Samaritans 2G73b  (Ewing) 

Geron 121!)" 

Gerrenians 1219a  (Hutchison) 

Gershom 1219a  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Gershon,  Gcrshonites. .  .  .1219a  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 
Gerson  (Gershom) .  .      .  .  1219b 


Geruth  Chimham 1219b 

Geriiites 

cf  Gir/iles  (Gi/rites)  .  .  I233a 

Geshan 1219b 

Geshcm 1219b  (Reeve) 

(ieshur 12l9b  (Ewing) 

Geshurites 

cf  Geshur 1219b  (Ewingj 

Gesture 122()a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Attitudes 329a  (W.  W.  Daviesi 

Get,  Getting 1221"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Gether 1221b 

Gethsemane 12211'  (Masterman) 

cf     Temptation     of 

Christ 2943a  (Anderson) 

Goucl 1222- 

Gr;zer 1222a  (Masterman) 

cf  Asherah 268b  (Sayce) 

cf  Baal 345a  (Sayce) 

cf  Fortification 1137a  (Nicol) 

cf  Gazara 1179a  (Ewing  j 

cf  High  Place 1390a  (Easton) 

cf  Houses  at 1434b  (A.  C1.  Dickiej 

cf  Jerusalem 1597b;  160Sa  (Masterman) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 223  lb  (Cobern) 

cf  Pillar 2398b  (Orr) 

cf  Segub 2713a  (Wolf) 

cf  Siloam 2791a  (Masterman) 

cf  Zion 3150b  (Masterman) 

Gezrites 

cf  Girzites  (Gizrites) .  .  1233a 

Chost 1224"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Holy  Spirit 140Ga  (Mullins) 

cf  Spirit 2841b  (Marais) 

Giah 1224b 

Giants 1224b  (Orr) 

cf  Antediluvians 139a  (Davis) 

cf  Sons  of  God 2835a  (Crichton) 

Giants,  Valley  of  the 

cf  Rephaim,  Vale  of.  .  .25GOa  (Ewing) 

Gibbar 1224b 

cf  Gibeon 122ob  (Ewing) 

Gibbcthon 12241'  (Ewing) 

Gibca 12241' 

Gibeah 122.r'  (Ewing) 

cf  Gcba 1180a  (Ewing) 

cf  Gibeath 1225b  (Ewing) 

cf  Hill,  Hill  Country.  .  1392a  (Masterman) 
cf  Saul 2G97b  (Weir) 

Gibeath 1225b  (Ewing) 

cf  Ammah 117a 

cf  Gareb 11751 

cf  (ribeah 1225a  (Ewing) 

cf  Hachilah 1313b 

cf  Moreh 2082a  (Ewing) 

,cf  Tabor 2901a  (Ewing) 

Gibeathite 

cf  Shemaah 2759h 

Gibeon 12251'  (Ewing) 

cf  Gibbar 1224b 

cf  Helkath-hazzurim.  .  137()b  (Ewing) 


324S 


GENERAL  ]\I)KX 


Gibeon — continual 

cf  Joshua 174G"  (Roberts) 

Gibeomtes 122Gb 

cf  Gibeon 1225b  (Ewing) 

Giblites  (Gcbalitcs) 1180" 

of  Geba 1180"  (Ewing) 

Giddalti 122(ib 

Giddel  (Isdacl) 122Gb;  150Sb 

Gideon 122Gb  (Schenk) 

Call  of 122(1'' 

Defeat  of  Midianite.s.  .1227'' 

cf  Jorubbaal ISO")'1 

cf  Judges,  Book  of .  .  .  .1773"  (Geden) 

Making  of  epliod 122S" 

cf  Palestine 2213b  (Conder) 

Selection  of  army 1227a 

Gideoni 1228" 

Gidoni 1228a 

Gier-eaglc 1228"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Gift 1228a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gift  of  Tongues 299.~>b  (Easton) 

Gifts  of  Healing 1349b  (Lambert) 

cf  Healing 13491' 

Gifts,  Spiritual 2S-13b  (Lambert) 

Gihon 122Sb  (Masterman) 

cf  Bcthesda 444b  (Ma.stermanj 

cf  Fuller's  Field 114Sb  Masterman) 

cf  Ilinnom,  Valley  of  .  1393b  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem lGOSb  (Masterman) 

cf  Sliihor 27GSa  (Kyle) 

cf  Siloam 2791a  (Masterman) 

cf  Zion 31.r>0b  (Masterman) 

Gihon  (River  of  Eden)  .  .  122Sb 

cf  Eden 8971'  (Wright) 

Gilalai 122!)b 

Gilboa 1229b  (Ewing) 

Battle  of 793b  (Weir) 

cf  Gilead 12291'  (Ewing) 

cf  Well  of  Harod 1340b  (living) 

Gilead,  Balm  of 381"  (Masterman) 

Gilead  (person) 1231" 

Gilead  (place) 12291'  (Ewing) 

Geology 1230" 

cf  Gilboa,  Mount 12291'  (E\ving) 

cf  Hawoth-jair 1345"  (Ewing) 

History 1230" 

cf  Jabbok 1,1 !Gb  (Ewing) 

Location 1230" 

cf  Peraea 2319b  (Ewing) 

cf  Ramoth-gilead 2529a  (Ewing) 

Gilead,  Mount 

cf  Gilead  (place) 1229b  (Ewing) 

Gileadites 123 1'1 

Gilgal 1231:l  (Wright) 

cf  Galgala 11G3" 

cf  Gallim 1107b  (Masterman) 

Giloh 1231b 

Gilonite 

cf  Giloh 1231b 

Gimel 1231b 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

Gimzo.  .  .  .1231b 


Gin 1231b  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Snare 2819a  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Trap 3007"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Ginath 1232a 

Ginnethoi  (Ginncthon) .  .  12323 
Girdle 

cf  Armor 2")4a  (Xicol) 

cf  Dress S75b  (Eager) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites .  2452*  (Wienerj 

(iirgashite 12:',2;i  (Sayce) 

Girl 12:]2a 

cf  Daughter 790"  (Pollard) 

cf  Maid,  Maiden 19(>7b  (Pollard) 

G incites  (Gi/rites) 1233:> 

Gishpa 1232;l 

cf  Hasupha 1343* 

Gittah-hepher 1232a 

Gittaim 12321 

Gittites 1232^ 

Gittith 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of.  .  .2487"  (Sampey) 

Give 1232b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gizonite  (G unite) 1233a 

Gixrites  (Girzites) 1233" 

cf  Gezer 1222"  (Masterman) 

Glad  Tidings 1233"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Glass 1233"  (Porter) 

cf  Phoenicia 23SS"  (Porter) 

Glass,  Sea  of 123 4b  (On-) 

Gleaning 1234b  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 77a  (Patch) 

cf  Harvest 1341b  (Patch) 

cf  Reaping 2o34a  (Patch) 

Glede 1234b 

cf  Hawk 134oa  (Stratton-Porter) 

Glistering 12341' 

Glitter,  Glittering 123.")" 

Glorify 1235"  (Betteridge) 

cf  Glory 1235b  (Betteridge) 

Glorious 1235"  (Betteridge) 

Glory 1235b  (Betteridge) 

cf  Glorify 1235a  (Betteridge) 

cf  God 1253b  (Hees) 

In  XT  and  Apoe 123Sb 

OT  passages 1236b 

cf  Shekinah 2758b 

Use  of  term 1236a 

Glowing  Sand 

cf  Mirage 20GGa  (Joy) 

Glutton,  Gluttonous.  .  .  .  1239b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gnash 1239b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gnat 1240"  (Day) 

cf  Flea 1118b  (Day) 

cf  Lice 1887"  (Day) 

cf  Sand  Flies 2GS8b 

Gnosticism 1240a   (Rutherfurd);   G27" 

(Orr) 

cf  Aeon 65b  (Kapp) 

cf  Bible 459b  (Orr) 

cf  Canon  of  NT 5G3"  (Riggs) 

Christian  antithesis.  .  ,1244a 


GENERAL INDKX 


3249 


Gnosticism  -  -continued 

Definitions 

cf  Fulness 

Harnack's  view 

Influence  and  growth. . 

Its  sects  

cf  Johannino  Theology 

In  Johannine  writ  ings 

In  1  John 

cf      Literature,      Sub- 
apostolie 

Modern  forms 

Nature  of 

In  Pauline  writ  ings .  .  . 

Science' 

cf  Simon  Magus 

Sources 

Go 

Goad 

cf  Prick 

Goah 

cf  Jerusalem 

Goat 

cf  Chamois 

cf  Deer 

cf  Food 

cf  Gazelle 

cf  Kid 

cf  Satyr 

cf  Zoology 

Goat's  Hair 

cf  Tent 

Goatskins 

cf  Hair 

cf  Weaving 

Gob 

Goblet 

God 

cf  Almighty 

cf  Asherah 

Attributes  of 

cf  Omniscience .... 

cf  Authority  of 

cf  Children  of 

Definition  of  idea. .  .  . 

Ethnic  ideas  of 

cf  Faithfulness  of 

cf  Father,  the 

cf  Glory 

cf  Holy  Spirit 

Idea  of,  in  NT 

Divine  Fatherhood. 

God  as  King 

Metaphysical    at  t  ri 

butes 

Moral  attributes. .  . 
Unity 

Idea  of,  in  OT 

Course    of    develop 

ment 

Forms  of  manifesta 
tion .  . 


1210' 

114S1-  (Rutherfurd) 

1245" 

12451' 

12461' 

1697'1  (Law) 

1243" 

1713"  (Law) 

1S961'  (Cowan) 

1247" 

124 11' 

1242" 

2702b  (Rut.herfurd) 

2797"  (Rutherfurd) 

1241° 

1248"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

12  IS1'  (Patch) 

2439"  (Edwards) 

1248b 

1595b  (Mastermaii) 

124S1'  (Day) 

592b  (Day) 

817"  (Day) 

1123-  (Eager) 

1179"  (Day) 

1797b 

2G97"  (Day) 

3155"  (Day) 

1249b 

2947b  (Patch) 

1249b  (Patch) 

1320"  (Luering) 

3077"  (Patch) 

1250" 

1250" 

1250"  (Rees) 


11281'  (Hodge) 

334b  (Rees) 

60S"  (Rees) 

1251" 

1252" 

108Sb  (Hodge) 

11001'  (Orr) 

1235b  (Betteridge) 

140fj"  (Mullins) 

1250b;  1260b 

1261" 

1262b 

1263b 
1263" 
1264" 
1252b 

1252b 
1253" 


God — conli,//  in  <l 

Idea  of,  in  OT — cnnlinui'd 

Names  of  God 125  la 

Post-exilic  period  .  .  .  125Sb 

I're-propliet  ic      con- 
ceptions   1255" 

Prophet  io  period. .  .  .  1257" 
Image  of 1264b  (Orr) 

cf  Anthropology.  ...  14  lb  (Marais) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1624" 

In  Johannine  theology  1697" 

Knowledge  of 1251b 

Names  of 1264b  (Mack) 

cf  Adonai 57" 

cf  Almighty 100" 

cf  El-Elohe-Israel. .  .927'"  (Mack) 

Klohim 1265b 

cf  Genesis 1203b  (Mollcrj 

cf  Highest 1390"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Lord  of  Hosts. .  .  .  1919" 

cf  Name 2112"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Names,  Proper   .  .2113"  (Davis) 

In  NT 1267b 

cf  Omnipotence 21SSb  (Vos) 

In  OT 1265b 

cf  War,  Man  of 3072" 

cf  Zurishaddai 3159b 

cf  Patience 2263b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Pauline  Theology. .  .2289"  (Easton) 

cf  Philosophy 23S4b  (Rees) 

cf  Self-revelation  of.  .  .692b  (Tisdall) 

cf  Son  of 2S26b  (Stalker) 

cf  Trinity 3012a  (Warfield) 

cf  The  Unknown 3037b  (Easton) 

cf  Wisdom  of 3092"  (Easton) 

cf  Zoroastrianism 3157"  (Easton) 

Goddess 1268" 

Godhead 126S"  (W^arfield) 

Godless 1270"  (W.  Evans) 

Godliness,  Godly 1270"  (Orr) 

Gods 1270b  (Reeve) 

cf  Adrammelcch 61b  (Beecher) 

cf  Asherah 26Sb  (Sayce) 

cf  Ashirna 2G91'  (Sayce) 

cf  Baalzebub 3  IS" 

cf  Babylonia 358b  (Clay) 

cf  Calf,  Golden 298"  (Maunder) 

cf  Chcmosh 601"  (Nicolj 

cf  Dagon 77Gb  (Margolis) 

cf  God,  Names  of,   in 

Genesis 1203b  (Moller) 

cf  God,  Names  of,   in 

OT 1264b  (Mack) 

cf  God(s),  Strange.  .  .  .1272"  (Betteridge) 

cf  Idolatry 1447b  (Cobern) 

Meaning  in  NT 1272" 

Meaning  in  OT 127()b 

cf  Molech,  Moloch 2074"  (Nicol) 

cf  Nergal 2134b 

cf  Nibhaz 2141" 

cf  Rimmon 2594"  (N.  Isaacs) 

cf  Sons  of  God,  OT .  .  .2835"  (Crichton) 


32.10 


GEXERAL  IXDEX 


Gods — conlin  ucd 

cf  Succoth-bi  noth.  .  .  .2809"  (Pinches) 

cf  Tartak 2017' 

cf  Teraphim 14.15"  (Cobcrn) 

God(s),  Strange 1272"  (Betteridge) 

cf  Gods 12701'  (Reeve) 

Godspeed 12721'  (\\ .  L.  Walker) 

cf  Hail  (interject ion),  .loll)1' 
Goel 1272''  (Breslich) 

cf  Avenge 340"  (Breslich) 

cf  Murder 20!)  4"  (Hirsch) 

cf  Refuge,  Cities  of.  .  .2.")  If)1'  (Ewing) 

cf  Revenge,  Revenger . 2587°  (Breslich) 
Gog 1273"  (Reeve) 

cf  Magog 190.11' 

Goiini 1273" 

Going,  Goings 1273"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Golan,  Gaulonitis 12731'  (lowing) 

cf  Refuge,  Cities  of .  .  .  2,145b  (Ewing  j 
Gold 1274*  (Patch) 

cf  Metals 2044"  (Patch) 

cf  Peacock 2294"  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Phoenicia 238S1'  (Porter) 

Golden  Calf 1275" 

cf  Astrology 29.",''  (Maunder) 

cf  Calf,  Golden .142"'  (Col)ern) 

cf  Idolatry 14471'  (Cobern) 

Golden  Candlestick o,13:l  (Orr) 

Golden  City 127.1" 

Golden  Number 127.1" 

cf  Astronomy 3()()b  (Maunder) 

Goldsmith 127,")"  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Founder 11411' 

Golgotha 127-1"  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 101  lb  (Masterman) 

Meaning 127")' 

Site 127.7' 

cf  Skull 28141' 

Goliath 127(')b  (Reeve) 

cf  Elhanan 928"  (Sampey) 

cf  Lahmi 18211' 

Gomer 127(5''  (Berry) 

Comer,  Wife  of  Hosea. .  .  127(5''  (Reeve) 

cf  Hosea 1424''  (.1.  Robertson) 

Gomorrah 1277"  (Wright) 

cf  Arabah 2 II1'  (Wright) 

cf  Cities  of  the  Plain.  .0(50"  (Wright) 

cf  Dead  Sea 801a  (Wright) 

Good 1277"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Good,  Chief 127S"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Goodness 1279"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Good,  Chief 127S"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Good 1277"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Goodliness ]  278" 

Goodly 1278''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Goodly  Trees 12781'  (Masterman) 

cf  Feast  of  Tabernacles  1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Goodman 1279a  (Reeve) 

Goodness 1279*  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Good I277a  (W.  L.  Walker) 


Goodness — cnutiinicil 

cf  Good,  Chief 1278"  ( \V.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Ki'idness 1799"  (  \V.  L.  Walker) 

Goods 1279"  (\V.  I,.  Walker; 

Gopher  Wood 12791'  (Mastermanj 

cf  Deluge  of  Xoah .  .  .  .821b  (Wright) 

( lordon's  Calvary 

cf  Golgotha 127.7-  (Masterman) 

Gore 12791'  (\V.  L.  Walker) 

Gorgeous,  Gorgeously.  .  .1279''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gorget 12791'  (Xicol) 

cf  Armor,  Arms 2.11"  (Xicol; 

G  >rgias.  .  -  1280"  (Hutchison) 

Gortyna 1280" 

cf  Crete 744b  (Gilder) 

Goshen 1280"  (Cornier) 

Character 12SOb 

cf  Etham 10121'  (Cornier) 

cf  Exodus  .  .  10.52"  (Cornier) 

Location 12SO-" 

Meaning..  1280" 

cf  Pi-hahiroth 239(5"  (Kyle) 

cf  Pit  horn 2401b  (Cornier) 

cf  Raamses,  Rameses.  .2.120''  (Cornier) 
cf  Zoan 31.~)3"  (Conderj 

Gospel ...  1281"  (Bauslinj;40r>b  (Orr) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1020"  (Orr) 

cf  Johannine Theology  109.~/b  (La\v) 
cf  John,  Gospel  of.  .  .  .  1720"  (Iverach) 
cf       Literature,       Sub- 

apos 1904"  (Cowan) 

cf  Logia 1910"  (Smith) 

cf  Matthew,  Gospel  of  20091'  (Schodde) 

Gospel  according  to  the 

Hebrews 1281>> 

cf  Apocryphal ( Gospels.  19.T1  (Hutchison) 
cf  Matthew,  Gospel  of  20101'  (Schodde) 

Gospel  of  Infancy 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  19o"  (Hutchison) 

( iospels  of  the  Childhood  12811' 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels .  19.")"  (Hutchison) 

Gospels,  Spurious 128 lb 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  19.>  (Hutchison) 

Gospels,  The  Synoptic. .  .1281b  (Iverach.) 

cf  Bible 1.19''  (Orr) 

cf  Canon  of  XT f>03"  (Riggs) 

cf  Chronology  of  XT.  ,044b  (Armstrong) 

Dates 1284" 

Ethics  of  Jesus  in 128.")1' 

Influence    of    oral     in- 
struction 

cf  Catechist f)S2h  (Gerberding) 

Jesus  as  a  thinker  in  .  .  1280" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1020b  (Orr) 

cf  Johannine  Theology  109.~>h  (Law) 
cf  John,  Gospel  of .  .  .  .1720"  (Iverach) 

cf  Justification  in 178.")"  (Faulkner) 

cf  Kingdom  of  God  in.  180.1"  (Stalker) 

cf  Luke,  Gospel  of 1938"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Matthew,  Gospel  of  201  lb  (Schodde) 

Meaning  of  term 1281b 

Messianic  hope 12Sr>a 


GKXEHAL  1XDE.X 


3251 


Gospels,  The  Synoptic — continued 

Messianic  idea 1284b 

Oral  tradition 1283" 

Order  of  events 12831' 

cf  Person  of  Christ. .  .  .2)51  1-  (\Var(ield) 

Problem  of  sources.    .  .  12S2" 

Purpose  of 12S6" 

cf  delation   to   Fourth 

Gospel 17221'  dveracli) 

Relation  of  OT  to.  .  .  . 1285b 

Time 

cf  Chronology  of  XT  (ill'1  (Armstrong) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1626h  (( )rr) 

Gothic  Version 30  IX"  (Easton) 

(iotholias 12X6b 

Gothoniel 12S(i'' 

Gourd 12X0"  (Mastorman) 

Gourd,  Wild 12Sl>h  (Masterman) 

Government 12X7"  (lleidcl) 

Fiscal  instit  ut  ions 128Sb 

Greek 

cf  Asmoneans 2X3"  (I)osker) 

Later  code 

cf  Deuteronomy.  .  .  .  X35"  (Robinson) 

Later  periods 12X9' 

Xomadic  period 12X7" 

Period  of  judges 12S7b 

Period     of     the     mon- 
archy   12SS" 

cf  Presbyter 2-137b  (Mack) 

Roman 

cf  Governor 1289"  (Ileidel) 

cf  Senate,  Senator.  .27191'  (Ileidel) 
Governor 12S9b  (Ileidel) 

cf  Felix  Antonius 1105"  (Kerr) 

cf  Festus,  Porcius 1107"  (Kerr) 

cf  Government 1289"  (Iloidel) 

In  XT 1289" 

InOT 12S9b 

ef  Pilate 2396"  (,].  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Prince 2453"  (Baur) 

cf  Procurator 24571'  (Allen) 

cf  Tirshatha 29<SGb  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Goyim 

cf  Goiim 1273" 

Gozan 1290"  (Orr) 

cf  Habor 1313b  (Pinches) 

cf  Halah 13211'  (Pinches) 

Graba 

cf  Aggaba 71b 

Grace 1290"  (Easton) 

cf  Holy  Spirit 1406"  (Mullins) 

In  Justification 1291" 

cf  Justification 17S2b  (Faulkner) 

In  OT 1292  <• 

Other  uses 1291" 

Power 1290" 

Teaching  of  Christ..  .  .1291'' 

Terms 129!)" 

cf      Thank,      Thanks, 

Thanksgiving 2964b  (Easton) 

Gracious 1292b  (Clippinger,) 


Graecia 

cf  Greece    .  .  .129.1"  (He-idol) 

Graft 1292b  (Patch) 

Grain 

cf  Agriculture 75b  (Patch) 

cf  Garner 1 175b 

Granary 

cf  Garner.  .  ...  1 175b 

cf  Store-houses 2863" 

Grapes 

cf  Food.  .  1122''  (Eager) 

cf  Vine 3(H9b  (Masterman) 

Grapes,  Wild 1293" 

cf  Vine 3050"  (Masterman) 

Grasp 1293"  (Miller) 

cf  Prize 2457"  (Edwards) 

cf  Robber,  Robbery. .  .2W:>b  (Easton) 
Grass 1293"  (Masterman  i 

cf  Herb 137o"  (Masterman; 

Grasshopper 

cf  Locust 190S"  CDay) 

Grate,  Grating 1293b  (Caldecott ) 

Grave 

cf  Burial ,129"  (Eager) 

Grave  (adjective) 

cf  Gravity 12931'  (\V.  L.  Walker) 

Grave,  Graving 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

Gravel 1293b  (Day) 

Gravity 1293b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Gray 

cf  Colors G74b  (Patch) 

Grease 1294" 

cf  Fat 1099''  (Lueringj 

cf  Gross 1307" 

Great,  Greatness 1294"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Great  Boar  (Arcturus). .  .313" 
Greaves 

cf  Armor,  Arms 251"  (Xicol) 

Grecians,  Greeks 1294b  (Heidelj 

cf  Gentiles 1215a  (Porter) 

cf  Hellenism 1371"  (Heidelj 

Greece,  Graecia 1295"  (Heidel) 

Climate 1296" 

The  country 1295" 

cf  Divination 860"  (T.  \V.  Uavies) 

cf  Dreams 874"  (Clippinger) 

Geology     and     topog- 
raphy  12961' 

cf  Javan 1572"  (Roberts) 

Greece,   Religion  in   An- 
cient  1297"  (Fairbanks) 

Divination 1300b 

cf  Divination 860"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Dreams 874"  (Clippinger) 

Festivals 1302" 

Forms  of  worship 1301" 

Fu<  ure  life 1303" 

Gods 1298b 

Gods  of   activity  and 
emotions 1300" 

Clods  and  Nature ....  1299" 


3252 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Greece,  Religion  in  Ancient — continued 

The  Great  Gods 1299h 

cf  Hellenism,  Hellenist  1371"  (Heidel) 

Influence      on      Chris- 
tianity  130 11' 

Local  shrines 1298" 

Mysteries 1303" 

The  myths 1297b 

Omens,  dreams 1300b 

Oracles 1301=' 

Prayer 1302" 

Priests 1301h 

cf  Prophecy 2406"  (Orelli) 

Revelation,         inspira- 
tion  1300" 

cf  Rome 2<>20b  (Allen) 

Sacrifices 1302b 

Sin,  expiation 1304" 

Greece,  Sons  of 1305" 

cf  Asmoneans 2S3a  (Dosker) 

cf  Javan 1572"  (Roberts) 

Greek  Language 

cf  Language  of  NT .  .  .  lS26b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 
Greek  Religion 

cf  Greece,  Religion  in  .  .  1297"  (Fairbanks) 

cf  Mercury,  Mercurius  2035"  (M.  O.  Evans) 
Greek  Versions 

cf  Septuagint 2722"  (Thackeray) 

cf   Versions,  Georgian, 

Gothic,    Slavonic.  .  .30 IS-  (East on) 
Greeks 

cf  Grecians 1294h  (Heidel) 

Green,  Greenish 

cf  Colors 674b  (Patch) 

Greeting 1305"  (\\ .  L.  Walker) 

cf  Farewell 109$"  (\V.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Hail  (interjection) .  .  131 9b 

cf  Peace 2293"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Greyhound 

cf  Dog 867b  (Day) 

Grief,  Grieve 1305b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Grievance 130G1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Grievous,         Grievously, 

Grievousness 1306h  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Grinder 

cf  Mill 2052"  (Patch) 

Grinding 

cf  Crafts 736"  (Patch) 

Grisled,  Grizzled 

cf  Colors 674h  (Patch) 

Groan 1306b  (Macalister) 

Gross 1307" 

cf  Grease 1294" 

Ground,  Grounded 1307"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Fallow 1094" 

cf  Parched 2247b  (Patch) 

Grove 1307b 

cf  Asherah 26Sb  (Sayce) 

cf  Tamarisk 507b  (Masterman) 

Grudge 1307b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Guard 1307b  (Nicol) 

cf  Captain 568b  (Nicol) 


Guard — continued 

Foreigners  as 1308" 

cf  Post 2423"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Royal  bodyguards   .  .  .  1308" 

In  temple 130$" 

Guardian 

cf  Angels 132''  (,].  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Family 1094b  (Caverno) 

Gubarn 78$"  (II.  D.  Wilson) 

Gudea 

cf  Shinar 2773"  (Pinches) 

Gudgodah 1308" 

Guest l-308b  (Clippinger) 

cf  Guest-chamber 13()$b  (Estes) 

cf  Hospitality 1432"  (Easton) 

Guest-chamber 13()$b  (Estes) 

cf  Guest 130$b  (Clippinger) 

Guide 130$b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Guile 1309"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Guilt 1309"  (Rail) 

In  OT 1309" 

cf  Sin 279$b  (McConnell) 

In  teachings  of  Jesus.  .  1309b 

In  teachings  of  Paul  .  .1309b 
Guilt  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 2645"  (Reeve) 

Guiltless 1310" 

Guilty 1310a  (Rail) 

cf  Guilt 1309a  (Rail) 

Gulf 1310b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Abraham's  Bosom.  .22"  (Orr) 

cf  Hades 1314b  (Vos) 

cf   Punishment,    Ever- 
lasting   2502b  (Orr) 

Guni,  Gunites 1310b 

Gur,  The  Ascent 131  Ob 

Gur-baal 13 101'  (Ewiiig) 

Gutter 

cf  House U34h  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Gymnasium 

cf  Games 116$h  (Smith) 

Ha 1311" 

cf  Ah,  Aha 78"  (Mack) 

Haahashtari 13113 

Habaiah  (Hobaiah) 1311" 

Habaiah  (Obdia) 2174b 

Habakkuk 1311"  (Eiselen) 

Author 1311" 

cf  Bel  and  the  Dragon  .  42Sb  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Book 1311b 

Date  and  occasion.  .  .  .1312" 

Integrity 1312" 

Interpretation  of  chap- 
ters 1  and  2 131  lb 

Style 1312" 

Teaching 1312b 

Habakkuk,  Prayer  of 

cf    Heth-horon,    Battle 

of 446b  (Maunder) 

Habaziniah         (Habazzi- 

niah) 1313" 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3253 


Habergeon 1313" 

cf  Armor,  Arms 251"  (Xicol) 

Habiri 

ef  Tell  el-Am:irna  Tali- 
lets 2927b  (Kyle) 

Habitation 1313:i  (Orr) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Habor 1313b  (Pinches) 

cf  Gozan 1290"  (Orr) 

cf  Halah 132 lb  (Pinches) 

Hacaliah  (Hachaliah)  .  .  .1313'' 
Hachilah 131 3b 

cf  Gibeath 12251'  (Ewing) 

Hachmoni  (IIachmonite).1313b  (Hovey) 

Ha<lad 1313b       (Hovey); 

(Petrie) 
H:i(la(lez(>r 1311"  (Xicol) 

cf  Benhadad 435b  (Xicol) 

Hadadrimmon 1314;i  (Ewing) 

cf  Adadrimmon 4Sh 

cf  Rimmon 2594"  (X.  Isaacs) 

Hadar 

cf  Hadad 1314"  (Hovey) 

Hadarezcr 1314b 

cf  Benhadad 435b  (Xicol) 

cf  Hadadezer 1314-  (Xicol) 

Hadashah 1314b 

Hadassah 1314b 

cf  Esther 1006"  (Urquhart) 

Hadattah 

cf  Hazor 1347b  (Ewing) 

Hades 1314-  (Vos) 

cf  Abraham's  Bosom  .  .  22b  (Orr) 

cf  Eschatology  of  XT  .  979b  (Vos) 

cf  Gulf 1310b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

In  XT 13141' 

Xot  a  final  state 13151' 

InOT  (Sheol) 13141' 

cf  Paradise 2216"  (Wright) 

cf  Sheol 27Gla  (Orr) 

cf  Spirits  in  Prison. .  .  .2456b  (Orr) 
Hadid  (Adida) 1315b 

cf  Adida 55b 

cf  Zeboim 3134"  (Masterman) 

Hadlai 1315b 

Hadoram  (Joram) 1316"  (Hovey) 

cf  Adonirarn 58"  (Beechcr) 

Iladrach 1316" 

Hagab 1316" 

Hagaba 1316" 

cf  Accaba 27b 

cf  Hagabah 1316a 

Hagabah 1316a 

ef  Hagaba 1316" 

Hagar 1316a  (Crichton) 

Allegorical  use  by  St. 
Peter 1317" 

Allegory  of 1317a 

Critical  points 1317;v 

Expulsion  and  Divine 
help  .  .  .  .1316" 


Hagar  —  continued 

Flight  .  .  . 

Ishmael  ....... 

Practical  lessons 

cf  Sarah  ....... 

Vision  anil  n 
Hagarenos 

cf  Agarenes  . 

cf  Hagrites  ......... 

Hagarites  (Hagarenes) 

cf  Hagrites  ......... 

Hagerite 

cf  Hagrites  ......... 

Haggada 

cf  Talmud  ........... 

Haggai  ................ 

Analysis  of  work  ..... 

Book  of  ............ 

Contribution  to  proph- 
ecy —  necessity  of  re 
building  the  temple  . 

Criticism  ............ 

cf  Joshua  (son  of  Je- 
hozadak)  .......... 

Message  ............ 

Xaine  ............... 

Period  and  circum 
stances  ........... 

Personal   history  ..... 

Preaching  of  ......... 

Style  ............... 

Work  ............... 

Haggeri  ............... 


.70'' 

.1319"  (Mack) 

.  1319"  (Mack) 
.1319"  (Mack) 

.29()4b  (Strack) 
.  1317"  (Robinson) 
.1318" 
.13  IS" 


Haggiah 

cf  Haggi 
Haggites 
Haggith 
Hagia 

cf  Agia  ........... 

Hagiographa 

cf  Bible  .......... 

cf  Canon  of  OT  .  .  . 

cf  Septuagint  ..... 

Hagri  .............. 

Hagrites  ........... 

Ila-hiroth 

cf  Pi-hahiroth  ..... 
Hai  ................ 

cf  Ai  ............. 

Hail  ............... 

cf  Lightning  ...... 

Plague  of  ......... 

Hail  (interjection)  .  .  . 

cf  Greeting  ....... 

Hair  ............... 

cf  Barber  ........ 

cf  Camel's  Hair  .  .  . 

Cutting  and  shaviiu 
cf  Head 

cf  Goat's  Hair  .... 

cf  Goatskins  .  . 


1318b 

1319" 

1748"  (Roberts) 
131Sb 

1317b 

.131 7b 
,1317b 
.1317'' 
.1318b 
.1317b 
. 1319" 
.1319a 
.1319a 
.1319a 
.1319° 
.1319" 

.71b 

.  459b  (Orr) 

.  554"  (Robinson) 

.2730''  (Thackeray) 

.1319" 

.1319"  (Mack) 

.2396"  (Kyle) 
.1319b 

.S7b  (Mack) 
.1319b  (Joy) 
. 1892b  (Joy) 
. 1319b 
. 13l9b 

.1305"  (W.  L.  Walker 
.  1320"  (Luering  i 
.  403"  (Eager) 
.54S"  (Patch) 
. 1320" 

.  1348"  (Luering) 
1249b  (Patch) 
. 1249b 


3254 


GENERAL INDEX 


(Hirsc.h ) 
(Luering  i 


(Anderson ) 

(Patch) 


(Pinches) 
(Orr) 

(Pinches) 

(Ewing) 

(Ewing) 

(Strack) 


unber  

2157-  (Smith! 

1322''  (Masterman) 

1322b 

•nassus  

.  .  .1322''  (Banks) 

Hair — con  tinned 

Naziritc 1320b 

Offerings 1320" 

Ointments 1321" 

Plucking  of  the 

of  Punishments 25041' 

cf  Poll 2Ur>'' 

of  Razor 2r>33h 

Symbolical  use 132 11' 

cf  Washing  of  Feet..  3072" 

cf  Weaving 3077a 

Ila-jehudijah 1321b 

Ilakkatan 13211' 

cf  Akatan SSb 

Hakkoz 1321'' 

cf  Akkos 89'1 

Hakupha 1321b 

cf  Achipa 30" 

Ilalah 1321'' 

cf  Oozan 1290" 

cf  Habor 13131' 

Ilalak,  Mount 1322" 

cf  Hor,  Mount  .    .1421" 

Halakha 

cf  Talmud 29041' 

Hale,  Haling 1322" 

Half 

cf  X 
Halhul 
Hali.  . 
Halicai 
Hall 

cf  House 1434'1  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Hall,  Judgment 1777''  (Rutherfunl) 

Hallel 1322''  (Sampeyi 

Hallelujah 1323-  (Hreslich) 

Hallohesh 1323" 

Hallow 1323"  (Crannell) 

Hallowed  (Hallow)  .  .     .  .  1323"  (Crannell) 

Halt 13231'  (Orr) 

Ham  (person) 13231'  (Pinches) 

cf  Japheth 150S>>  (Pinches) 

cf  Shem 2759"  (Pinches) 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2S9S1'  (Pinches) 
Ham  (place) 1324"  (Ewing) 

cf  Mizraim 2009b  (Kyle) 

cf  Shem 2759"  (Pinches) 

Hainan 1324b  (Urquhart ) 

Hamath 1324b  (Christie) 

Hamath-zobah 1325"  (Christie) 

Hamrnath  (person) 1325"  (Ewing) 

Hammath  (place1) 1325"  (Ewing) 

Hammeah,  Tower  of.    .  .1325h  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 1607b  (Masterman) 

Hammedatha 1325b 

Hammeleeh 1325b 

Hammer 1325b  (Patch) 

cf  Tools 299Sb  (Easton) 

Hammiphkad,  The  Gate 

of 13251' 

Hammolechcth  (Hammo- 

leketh) . .  .  .  1325b 


(Ewing) 
(Christie; 


(Pinches) 
(Ungnad) 


Hammon 1325' 

Hammoth-dor 1320! 

Hammuel 1326" 

Hammurabi..  ...132(5"     (Pinches);         306" 

(Clay) 

cf  Amraphel 120"  (Pinches) 

cf  Arioeh 241"  (Pinches) 

Authorship  of  Deuter- 
onomy   840" 

cf  Chedorlaomer 599-  (Pinches) 

cf  Nineveh.  Library  of .  2152" 

cf      Semites,      Semitic 
Religion 2717" 

cf  Tidal 29SO" 

Hammurabi,  Code  of. .  .  .  1327" 

Comparison  with  other 
systems 1332" 

Contents 1328" 

Discovery  of 1327b 

Hammurabi  and  Mosesl331b 

The  inscription 1327" 

cf  LawinOT 1S54" 

Laws  regarding  family.  1330" 

Significance 1331" 

Hamonah 13321' 

Hamon-gog 1332'' 

Hamor 

Hamran  (Amran). . 

cf  Hemdan  .... 
Hamuel 

cf  Hammuel .... 

Hamul 1332' 

Hamutal 1332' 

Hanamel 

cf  Jerusalem . 

Hanan 

Hananel,  Tower  of 

cf  Jerusalem . 

Hanani 1333"  (DeMent 

Hananiah 13331'  (Reeve) 

cf  Shadrach 2740"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Hand 1333b  (Luering) 

cf  Palm  of  the 2235"  (Luering) 

Handbreadth 133  I1' 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Handful 1334b  (Porter) 

Handicraft, 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

Handkerchief 1334'' 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

cf  Napkin 21191' 

Handle 1335" 

Handmaid 1335"  (McGlothlim 

Hands,  Imposition  of..  .  .1335"  (Orr) 

cf  Ministry 2057"  (T.  M.  Lindsay; 

cf  Ordain,  Ordination  .  2199"  (Edwards') 

cf  Sacrifice 2051"  (Williams) 

Hands,  Laying  on  of 

cf  Hands,  Imposition 

of 1335"  (Orr) 

cf  Lay,  Laying 1859b  (Breslich) 


(Rule) 


1332''  (DeMent) 
1332b 
.1374'' 
1332'- 
1320" 


.1595h  (Masterman) 
.1333"  (DeMent) 
.1333"  (Masterman) 
.1003"  (Masterman) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


HandstalY 133.J1' 

cf  Staff 28471' 

Handwriting 

<:f  Manuscripts          .  .  .  19S4"  (Richardson) 

cf  Writing 3114"  (Richardson  i 

Hanes 133f>b  (Kyle) 

Hanging.  ...  W-W'  (Hirsch) 

cf  Punishments 2r>04b  (Hirsch) 

Hangings...  .    .  133.V1  (Downer) 

Haniel 

cf  Hannicl 133H< 

Hannah 133(>"  (DeMent) 

Hannathon 1331V1 

Hanniel 1331)" 

Hanoch  (Hanochitcs)  .  .  .  1331J" 

cf  Henoch 1374'' 

Hanun 133(>h  (DeMent 

Ha]),  Haply 133(1''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hapharaim  (Haphrai:n).  133(ib 

Happen 133(ib  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Chance 593"  (Trevor) 

Happiness 133Gb 

cf  Blessedness 487"  (Grayi 

Happiz/ez 133(')b 

Hara 1337"  (Ewing) 

Haradah 1337" 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  3064a  (Conder) 

Haran  (person) 1337" 

Haran  (place) 1337'  (Ewing) 

Hararitc 13l7b 

Harbona,  Harbonah 13371'  (Wolf) 

Harbour 1337b 

cf  Haven 1344b  (Day; 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 

Hard 1337b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Harden 133S"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hard  Sayings 133X»> 

Hard  Sentences 133Sb 

Harden 133S'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Hard 13371'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hardiness 1337h  (W.  L.  Walker  i 

Hardly 

cf  Hard 1337'-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hardness 

cf  Hard 13371'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hare 133S"  (Day) 

Harcph 1339" 

Harcth 1339" 

cf  Hereth  .  .  1377:i  (Masterman) 

Harhaiah 1339" 

Harhas ....1339" 

cf  Hasrah 1342>> 

Harhur 1339' 

Harini 1339"  (Stearns) 

cf  Rehuni 2552h  (Stearns) 

Hariph  (Jorah) 1339b 

Harlot 1339b  (Eager- 

cf  Ashtoreth 270b  (Sayce) 

cf  Idolatry 1447b  (Cobern 

cf  Images  .  .  1452"  (Cobern  ) 

Harlotry 74ub 

cf  Crimes.  .  .  .745b  (Hirsch) 


Ilar-magedon 1340"  (Ewing,/ 

Ilarnepher 13  4()b 

Harness 13  H)1'  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Harod,  Well  of 1310''  (Ewing) 

cf  Esdraelon,  Plain  of .  993"  (Ewing) 

cf  Jezreol 1077"  (Ewing) 

Harodite 13  »)'• 

cf  Harod,  Well  of 13401'  (Ewingj 

Haroeh 1341- 

cf  Reaiah 2.r>34" 

Harorite 

cf  Harodite 13-101- 

Haroslietli,   of    the    ('.en- 
tiles or  of  the  Nations  131la  (Ewing) 
Harp 

cf  Music 2099''  (Millar) 

cf       Musical       Instru- 
ments  21()lb 

Harrow 1341;i  t  Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 7.">b  (Patch) 

Harrows 1311'- 

Ilarsha 1341" 

Ilarsith 1341" 

cf  Deer 817"  (Day) 

cf  Gate,  East 117G1'  (Caldecotl 

cf  Jerusalem IT)').")1'  (Mastennan) 

cf  Potsherd 2  123b 

Hart 

cf  Deer S17:i  (Day) 

Ilaruni 1341" 

Ilarumaph 13  tlb 

Haruphite 1341b 

cf  Harcph 1339" 

cf  Hariph 1339b 

Haruz 1341b 

Harvest 13ilb  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 7.~>b  (Patch) 

Figurative 1341b  (Patch' 

cf  Gleaning 1234b  (Patch) 

cf     Mowing,     Mown 

Grass 2093"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

llasadiah .  .1342" 

Hascnuah 

cf  Hassenuah  ,  .  .  1342b 

Hashabiah 1342"  (Reeve) 

cf  Sabias  (Apoc) 2636 « 

Hashabnah 1312- 

llashabneiah 1312' 

Hashbadana      (H;ishbad- 

dana) 1342" 

Hashein  (Jashen) 1342" 

Hashmonah 1342" 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  30!i4a  (Conder ' 
Hashub 

cf  Hasshub 13  12'- 

Hashubah 1342" 

Itashum 13421'  (Downer 

Hasidaeans 1342h  ilfutchison 

cf  Maccabaeus,  Macca- 
bees  191b'h  (Hutchison) 

cf  Pharisees.  .  .2301 '  (.!.  E.  II.  Thomson) 


3256 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Hasmoneans 

cf  Asmoncans 2S3"  (Dosken 

cf  Heshmon  .  .  .  .  13S4b 


.1445b 

.2S39b  (On-i 

.293(>>>  (Caldecott; 

.1342b 

.  1339' 

.1342'- 

.1342b 

.1342b 


cf  Hyrcanus 

ff  Sparta,  Spartan- 

of  Temple 

Hasrah  

cf  Marhas.  . 
Hassonaah  (Senaah  i  . 

cf  Hassenuah 

Hassonuah 

cf  Scuuali 2721;1 

Hasshub  (Ha.shub) 1342'- 

Hassophereth 

cf  Sophcrcth 2S3I)" 

Haste  (Hasty) 1313"  (W.  I..  Walker i 

Hasupha  (Hashupha).  .  .1343" 

cf  Gishpa. 1232" 

Hat  .  .  13-13"  (Eager; 

cf  Hood 1419" 

Hatach 

cf  Hathaoh 1343'' 

Hatchet 1313'1 

cf  Ax 341"  (Patch) 

cf  Tools    299S'-  (Easton) 

Hate,   Hatred 1313''  (Orr) 

cf  Enmity 9.")2t>  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hatliach  (Hatach) 13131' 

Hat  hath 1343b 

Hatipha 1343b 

Hatita 1313'- 

Hatsi-hammenuchoth .  .  .  13131' 

cf  Menuhoth 2033"  (Wallace) 

Hat  til  (Asia) 1343b 

Hattin,  Horns  of 

cf  Jesus  Christ Kvl2'>  (Orr) 

Hattush 1313b  (Wolf) 

Haunt 131  1" 

TIauran 1311"  (Ewingl 

Have 13-11'-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Haven 13441'  (Day) 

cf  Hithynia 4S3"  (White) 

cf  Harbour 1337'- 

cf  Shore 2779'>  (Day) 

Havens,  Fair 10S71' 

Havilah 134.5"  (Fulton) 

Havoc 1345"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Havoth-jair      (TTavvoth- 

jair) 1345"  (Ewing) 

cf.Iair 1559-  (Crichton) 

Hawaii 1315" 

Havvoth-jair      (Havoth- 
jair)  1345"  (E\viiiK) 

cf  Gilead 1230"  (Ewing) 

cf  Kamon 17S9b  (Ewing) 

cf  Village 3019b  (Christie) 

cf  Town 3001"  (Christie) 

Hawk 1345"  (Si  rat t on-Port er) 

cf  Falcon 1091'-  (St  rat  ton-Port  er) 

cf  Glede 1234b 

cf  Kite 1S14"  (St  rat  ton-Porter) 

cf  Night-hawk 2143b  (Stratton-Porter) 


Hay 

cf  Grass 1293"  (Masterman) 

Hazacl 1345b  (Nicol) ;  437b  (Nicol) 

Hazaiah 134Gb 

Hazar 1341',''  (E\vin») 

Hazar-addar 134fib 

Hazar-enan 134G1' 

Hazar-isaddah 1347" 

Hazar-hat  t  icon 1347" 

Ha/ar-maveth 1347" 

Hazar-shual 1347" 

Hazar-susah 13-17" 

Ha/ar-susini 1347" 

Hazar-addar 

cf  Hazar 1346'-  (EwinK) 

cf  Villa-v 3049'-  (Christ  ie) 

Hazazon-tamar       (Haze- 

zon-tamar) 13  41 

Hazel 

cf  Almond 

Hazelelponi        (Ha/ze 

ponij 

Hazcr-hatticon 

cf  Hazar 

Haze-rim 

Hazeroth 1 

cf    Wanderings    of    1s- 

-    niol 

Hazezon-tamar 

cf  Hazazon-tamar 1347' 

Haziel 1317' 

Hazo 1347' 

Hazor 13-17' 

cf  Kerioth-he/ron 

cf  Merorn 

cf  Village 3049b  (Ch.ristie) 

Hazor-hadattah 1347'- 

Hazzelelponi 13-1S1 

He 134S" 

cf  Alphabet l()3h  (Richardson) 

Head    134S"  (Luering) 

cf  Hair 1320"  (Luering) 

cf  Heart 1350b  (Marais) 

Headband 

cf  Dress 875h  slvtger) 

Headdress 

cf  Bonnet 495b 

cf  Dress 875b  (Iviger) 

Headstone 

cf  Corner-stone 721'1  <  Mack; 

Headstrong 

of  Heady 1349" 

Headtire 

cf  Bonnet 495b 

cf  Dress S75b  (Eager.) 

Heady 1349" 

Heal 1349"  (Macalister) 

Healed 1349"  (Maoalister) 

Healer 1349a  (Macalister) 

Healing 1349b 

Healing,  Gifts  of 1349h  (Lambert) 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts.  .     .  .2S43"  (Lambert) 


(Masterman) 
.100"  (Masterman) 

1 

'1- 

.  134S" 
.  1347" 

.13  It)'-  i,E\ving) 
.1317" 

•h 

3001"  (Coiidcr) 

(Masterman) 


(Ewing) 
. 1793b 
.2037"  (Wright) 


GENERAL INDEX 


Health 1350''  (Macalister) 

Heap 13oOb  (\V.  L.  Walker) 

Heart 13.")()b  (M amis') 

cf  Head    131X"  (Luering) 

of  Psychology 249Gb  (Marais) 

Hearth 13f>lh  (Downer) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Heartily 1372" 

Heat 1372"  (Joy) 

cf  Seasons 27101'  (Joy) 

Heath 

cf  Tamarisk 290X"  (Masterman) 

Heathen 

cf  Gentiles 121  7>  (Porter) 

Heave  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 2017-  (Reeve) 

Heaven 

cf  Astronomy 30()h  (Maunder) 

cf  Sky ' 2X1 4h  (Day) 

Heaven,  Host,  of 

cf  Astronomy 300''  (Maunder) 

Heaven,  Ordinances  of 

cf  Astronomy 30()b  (Maunder) 

Heaven,  Windows  of 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Heavenly 1372b  (Orr) 

cf  Heavens 1372''  (Orr) 

Heavens 1372b  (Orr) 

cf  Heavenly 1372>>  (Orr) 

Heavens  (physical) 1372b 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

cf  World,  Cosmological  3100  (Orr) 
Heavens,     N  e  w     (a  n  d 

Earth,  New) 1373"  (Vos) 

Heavy,  Heaviness,  Heav- 
ily   13.r)4»  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Heber 137lb  (Pollard) 

Heherites 13")  I1' 

cf  Tell  e'-Amarna  Tab- 
let?  2927b  (Kyle) 

Hebrew  Apocryphal  Gos- 
pels  196b  (Hutchison) 

Hebrew,  Hebrewess 13.771  (Orr) 

Hebrew  Language 1355a 

cf  Aramaic  Language . 222a  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson/ 

cf  Languages  of  OT..  .1X33"  (Weir) 

cf  Semites,  Semitic  Re- 
ligion  271X1'  (Mack) 

Hebrews,  Epistle  to  the  .  137v  (Rees);  4(i7;l  (Orr) 

Author 13.70h 

Contents  and  teaching  13<)1' 

Date 1310* 

Destination 13."Xh 

Doctrine  of  Logos.  .  .  .  191 4b  (Alexander) 

Law  in 1X51"  (M'Caig) 

Literary  form 13")ob 

Literary  style lS30b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Mediation 2()24b  (Edwards) 

Teaching         regarding 

person  of  Christ  .  .  .  .2341;1  (Warfield) 

Tc^aching  on  salvation  2(>70b  (East-on  ' 


Hebrews,  Gospel  accord- 
ing to  the i:i()2b 

cf  Apocryphal  CJospels  19.7'  (Hutchison) 
Character      and      con- 
tents  13l)3K 

Circulation     and     lan- 
guage  1304' 

References    in    early 

church  history 1302'1 

Relation    to    St.    Mat- 
thew  1301'' 

Time  of  composition    .  1304'1 
Uncanonical       sayings 
and  incidents 1304'' 

Hebrews,  Religion  of  the 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .  1730''  (Orellij 

Het)ron  (person) 130()h 

Hebron  (place) 13071  (Mastermaii) 

cf  Korah lX10b  (Beecher) 

cf  Machpelah 1900"  (Masterman) 

cf  Mamre 1973a  (Masterman) 

cf  Refuge,  Cities  of.  .  .2.11.7'  (Ewing) 

Hebronites 1300b 

Hedge 130Gb  (Masterman) 

cf  Fence 1100b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Gedcrah HXlb 

Hedgehog 1307a 

cf  Bittern (Sh  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Owl 2205b  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Porcupine 2421b  (Day) 

cf  Serpent 2730"  (Day) 

Heed    1307-  (Orr) 

Heel 13G7a  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Heel  (figurative) 1307"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Ilegai,  Hege 13(5?' 

Hegemonides 1307-1 

Hogesippus 1000--1  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Heifer 13G7b  (Iviston) 

cf  Cattle .")X3b  (Day) 

cf  Eglath-shelishiyah.  .  90">b  (Ewing) 

Heifer,  Red 13G7b  (Easton) 

cf  Adultery (S3"  (Margolis) 

cf  Cedar .")()9b  (Masterman 

cf  Hyssop 14-l")h  (Masternian  , 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 204-7'  (Reeve) 

cf  Separation 2721b 

cf  Talmud 290(5*  (Strack) 

Height,  Heights 13<iS"  (Orr) 

Heir 13(50»  (Easton) 

cf  Inlieritance 1  10Xb  (Hirsch' 

Cf  Marriage 199G1'  (Eager) 

Helah 13W- 

Helam 1370'' 

Helbah 1370' 

Helbon 1370"  (Christie) 

Helchiah 1370' 

cf  Ilelkias 1371" 

Heldai 1370" 

Held),  Heled 

cf  Ilelilai 1370!> 

ITelek 1370' 

Helem  .  .  1370a 


3258 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Helena  of  Adiabenc 

cf  Jerusalem 1G12"  (Masterman) 

Heleph 1370" 

Ilelc/ 1370'' 

Heli 13701' 

Heliodorus 1370h  (Hutchison) 

cf    Maccabees,    Books 

of 1955b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Seleucus 27151'  (Ilutchison) 

Heliopolia 

cf  On 2193"  (Kyle) 

Helkai 1370b 

Helkath 1370b 

Helkath-haz/urim 13701'  (Ewing) 

cf  (libeon 122G"  (Ewing) 

Helkias 1371" 

cf  Hilkiah 1392"  (Wallace) 

Hell 1371-  (Orr) 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT  .972"  (Orr) 

cf  Gehenna 11  S3"  (Yos) 

cf  Hades 1314b  (Yos) 

cf  Immortal 14G1"  (Orr) 

cf  Parousia 2249='  (Easton.) 

cf  Pit 2t()lb  (T.  Lewis) 

cf   Punishment,    Ever- 
lasting  2501b  (Orr) 

cf  Sheol 27G1"  (Orr) 

Hellenism,  Hellenist 1371"  flleidel) 

cf  Dionysus S50"  (Harry) 

Expansion     of     Greek 
peoples 137 11' 

cf  Grecians 1295"  (Heidel; 

cf  Greece,  Religion   of 

Ancient 1297"  (.Fairbanks,) 

Hellenic    art    and    let- 
ters  1372b 

Hellenic  life 1372" 

Hellenic  state 1372' 

cf  Paul 2274"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Philosophy 13721' 

Religion 1373" 

Helm 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (  Xicol) 
Helmet 

cf  Armor,  Arms 251"  (Xicol; 

Helon 1374" 

Help 1374"  (Orr) 

Helpmeet 

cf  Help 1374"  (On-) 

Helps 1374"  (Dosker) 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Xicol; 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts 2S441'  (Lambert) 

Helve 1374" 

Hem 1374"  (Eager) 

cf  Border 503b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Dress S75b  (Eager; 

Hemam 

cf  Heman 1374b  (Pollard) 

cf  Homam 14171' 

Heman 1374b  (Pollard; 

Hemath 

cf  Ilammath 1325"  (Ewing) 


Hemdan 1374b 

Hemlock 

cf  Gall 116Gb  (Masterman) 

Hen 1374b 

Hen  (person) 1374h 

cf  Josiah 1751b  (Genung) 

Hena 1374b  (Ewing) 

cf  I w:ih 1544b  (Pinches) 

Henadad 1374b 

cf  Iliadun 1449" 

Henna 1374b 

Ilenoch  (Enoch) 1374b 

cf  Hanoch 1336" 

Hepher,  Hepherites 1375" 

Ilepher  (place) 1375" 

Heph/ibah 1375" 

Heraclitus 

cf  Logos 1912"  (Alexander) 

Herakles 

cf  Hercules 1375"  (Hutchison) 

Herald 1375" 

cf  Games HGSb  (Smith) 

Herb 1375"  (Masterman) 

cf  Bitter  Herbs 4S4"  (Masterman) 

cf  Grass 1293"  (Masterman) 

Hercules  (Herakles)  .  .  .  .1375"  (Hutchison) 
Herd 

cf  Cattle 5S3b  (Day) 

Herdsman 1375b  (Patch) 

cf  Sheep 275Gb  (Day) 

Hereafter 1375b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hereby 1375b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Heredity 137G3  (Easton) 

cf  Blessing 4S7b  (Gray) 

cf  Curse 7G7a  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Death Slla  (Maealister) 

cf  Family 1094b  (Caverno) 

cf  Salvation 2GG5"  (Easton) 

cf  Sin 279Sb  (McConnell) 

cf  Son 2S2G"  (Betteridge) 

cf  Tradition 3004"  (Williams) 

Herein 1375"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hereof 1376" 

Ileres 137G1'  (Masterman) 

cf  Ir-ha-heres 1491"  (Kyle) 

cf  Ir-shemesh 1493" 

Heresh 137Gb 

Heresy 1377"  (Jacobs) 

cf  Sect 2711b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hereth,  The  Forest  of .  .  .1377"  (Masterman) 

cf  Adullam G2b  (Beecher) 

Heretic,  Heretical 1377" 

1  leret  ical         Apocryphal 

Gospels 197"  (Hutchison; 

Heretofore 1375b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hereunto 1375"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Herewith 137G"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Heritage 1377b 

Hennas 13771'  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Hermeneutica 

cf  Interpretation 1489"  (Schodde) 


CEXERAL IX HEX 


3259 


Hermes 

cf  Mercury,  Mercunus 
Hermogenes 

cf  Phygelus 

Hcrinon,  Lit  I  lc 

Hermon,  Ml 

cf  Senir 

cf  Sion 

cf  Sirion 

cf  Transfiguration,  Mt 

of 

Hermonites 

Herod 

Herod  Archclaus 

Herod  Philip 

cf  Temple 

Herod  Agrippa  I 

cf  Paul 

Herod  Agrippa  II 

cf  Punishments 

Herod  Antipas 

cf  Jesus  before 

cf  Jesus  Christ's  Arrest 

cf  Manaen 

Herod  the  Great 

cf  Jerusalem 

cf  Jesus  Christ 

cf  Machaerus 

Herodian  Architecture..  , 

Herodians 

Herodias 

Herodion 

cf  Junias 

Heron 

Hesed,  Son  of 

cf  Ben-hescd 

Heshbon 

Heshmon 

cf  Asmoneans 

Heth  (letter) 

cf  Alphabet 

Hcth  (person) 

cf  Hittites 

Hethlon 

Hewer 

cf  Drawer  of  Water.  .  . 
Hexapla 

cf  Septuagint 

Hexateuch 

cf  Joshua,  Book  of .  .  .  . 

cf  Pentateuch 

cf  Septuagint 

Hezeki 

cf  Hi/ki 

Hezekiah  (general) 

Hezekiah  (king) 

cf  Dial  of  Aha/ 

Isaiah  and 

cf  Jerusalem 

cf  Josiah 

Literary  remains 

cf  Israel,  History  of . 


13771' 

2035" 


(M.  O.  Evans) 
.1377''  (Kutherfurd) 
.2392'-  (Rulherfurd) 
137X>> 

137X"  (E\ving) 
2720"  (Ewing) 
280Ga 
2812b 

3000"  (Ewing) 
I378b 

137Xb  (Dosker) 
13X2" 
13X2" 

.2937-  (Caldecott;  On-) 
1382b 

,2271h  (A.  T.  Robertson) 
. 13X3" 

250  I1'  (Hirsch) 
1381b 

10(52"  (Orr) 
1G73"  (Maclaren) 
197(','>  (Orr) 
1379" 

101  lb  (Masterman) 
1  ( •>:;:;>•;  1727b  (Orr) 
19.19"  (Ewing) 
.238"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 
13X3b  (Orr) 
13S3b  (Kerr) 
1384a 

17X1"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 
1384"  (Stratton-Porter) 

438" 

1384"  (Ewing) 

1384b 

283"  (Dosker) 

1384b 

1031'  (Richardson) 

1384" 

1395b  (Condor) 

13S4b  (Christie) 

13S4b  (Patch) 

873b  (Patch) 

2720"  (Thackeray) 
13S.r"  (Wiener) 
1719"  (Geden) 
2298"  (Wiener) 
2729b  (Thackeray) 

1402" 
1385" 

138")"  (Gemmg) 

841"  (Maunder) 

1380" 

1010b  (Masterman) 

1752b;  1753"  ((Jenung) 

1388" 

1523b  (Orelli) 


He/ekiah — continual 

cf  Manasseli 1977"  (Wallace) 

Ki'fortns  of 13X0" 

cf  Sennacherib 27201'  (Clay) 

Siege      of      Jerusalem 
under 13XG1' 

cf  Siloam 2792"  (Masterman) 

Hezekiah's  Sickness 

cf  Dial  of  Yhaz 841"  (Maunder) 

Hezekiah,  The  Men  of  .  .  1388" 

cf  Hezekiah 1385"  (Genimg) 

cf  Proverbs,  Book  of.  .2475''  (Gemmgi 

He/ion 13881' 

Hezir 13881' 

Ilezro,  Hezrai 13S8b 

cf  Carmelite 579b 

Heznm  (person) 13S8b 

Hezron  (place) 138Sb 

He/ronitcs 13881' 

Hiddai  (Hurai) 13Xsb 

Hiddekel 13-ssb  (Wright) 

cf  Eden 897b  (Wright) 

Hidden 1389"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hiel 1389"  (Stearns) 

Hierapolis 1389a  (Banks) 

Hiereel  (Jehiel) 1389b 

Hieremoth  (Jerernoth). .  .  1389b 
Hierielua 

cf  Jezrielus 1077b 

Hiermas  (Ramiah) 1389b 

Higgaion 13891' 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of .  .  .  .2187"  (Sarnpey) 

High  Day 1889b 

High,  Most 

cf  God,  Names  of 12G4b  (Mack) 

High  Place 1390"  (Easton) 

cf  Altar 108";  109b  (Wiener! 

cf  Bamoth 3Slb 

cf  Criticism 220"  (Kyle) 

cf  Deuteronomy S35b  (Robinson) 

cf  Gczer 1223b  (Masterman) 

cf  Olives,  Mount  of.  .  .2187"  (Masterman) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2234"  (Cobern) 

cf  Ramah 2527b  (Ewing) 

cf  Religion  of  Israel .  .  .  1530b  (Orelli) 

cf  Sanctuary 238Gb  (Wiener) 

cf  Worship 3111a  (Crannell) 

High  Priest 244 lb  (Reeve) 

High  Things 139  lb  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Higher  Criticism 500b  (Richardson) 

lliglu>st 1390"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  God,  Names  of 1204b  (Mack) 

Highminded 1390"  (W.  L.  Walker. 

Highway 

cf  Way 3075b  (Morro) 

Ililen  (Holon) 1392" 

Hilkiah 1392"  (Wallace) 

cf  Deuteronomy 835b  (Robinson) 

cf  Helkias 1371" 

Hill  of  Ares 239b  (Harry) 


GENERAL  IXDEX 


Hill,  Hill  Country 1392-  (Masterman) 

cf  Country 724-  (Day) 

cf  Ephraiin,  Mount  .  .  ,9(>3b 

cf  Gibeah 1225-  (Ewing) 

cf  Judah,  Territory  of.  17(>3b  (Masterman) 

cf  Natural  Features.  .  .2122-  (Day) 

cf  Ophcl 21%''  (Masterman) 

cf  Palestine 2208b  (Conder i 

Hill,  Mount,  Mountain..  1392b  (Day) 
Hill  of  Evil  Counsel 

cf  Jerusalem 15981'  (Masterman) 

Hillel 1393- 

Ilin 1393- 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079- (Porter) 

Hind 

cf  Deer 817-  (Day) 

Hind  of  the  Morning.  .  .  1393-  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Morning 2()S2b  (Porter) 

cf  Psalms 2487"  (Sampey) 

cf  Song 28301'  (Millar) 

Hinge 1393b  (Caldecott) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Hinnom,  Valley  of 1393b  (Mastorman) 

cf  Akeldema 89-  (Masterman) 

cf  Gehenna 1183-  (Vos) 

cf  Gihon 1228b  (Masterman) 

cf  Jackal's  Well 1548b  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 1599-  (Mastcnnaiu 

cf  Kidron,  The  Brook.  1798-  (Masterman) 

cf  Slaughter,  Valley  of  281;?' 
Hip 13941' 

cf  Thigh 2972b  (Easton) 

Hippolytus 1000-  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Hippopotamus 

cf  Behemoth 427-  (Day) 

Ilirah 139  I1' 

Hiram 1394b  (Cotton) 

Hiram,  Ilirom,  Huram  .  .  13941' 

cf  Ilui-am 1442- 

Hircanus 

cf  Hyrcanus 1445'1 

Hire 1395-  (McGlofhlin) 

Hireling 1395-  (McGlothlin) 

His 1395- 

Hiss 1395b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hitherto 139f>'>  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Hittites 13951'  (Cornier) 

cf  Archaeological  theory 

of .231b  (Kyle) 

cf  Archaeology  of  Asia 

Minor 277-  (White) 

cf  In  Asia  Minor 274-  (Calder) 

cf  Heth 1384b 

History 1390- 

Inscriptions 1401'1 

cf  Kadesh  on  Orontes  .  1789-  (Christie) 

Language 1 399" 

In  Palestine 1396" 

cf  Palestine 2217-  (Cornier) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 22221'  (Cobern) 


Hit  t  ites — continued 

cf  Philistines 2370''  (Conderj 

Religion 1401" 

cf  Sculpture  of  the.  .  .  .279-  (White) 

cf  Syria 2SS2-  (Christie) 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  :;0(>9:1  (Conder) 

cf  Zoan 3153-  (Conder) 

Hi  vile 1402-  (Sayce) 

cf  Ilorite 1421 b  (Sayce) 

Hivites 416h  (Maunder) 

Hizki 1402- 

Hix.kiah 1402' 

cf  Hezekiah  (general)  .1385° 
Hoar,  Hoary 

cf  Color G741'  (Patch) 

cf  Hair 1320"  (Luering) 

Hoar-frost,  Hoary 

cf  Frost 1147-  (Joy) 

llohab 1402b  (Cotton) 

cf  Jethro l(>74b  (Crichton) 

cf  Reuel 2573b  (Wolf) 

Hobah 14021' 

Hobaiah 1402b 

cf  Ilabaiah 1311" 

cfObdia 2171'- 

Hock 14021' 

Hod 1402b 

Hodaiah 

cf  Ilodaviah 1403" 

Hodaviah  (Hodevah)..  .  .1403- 

Hodeiah  (Hodevah; 14031' 

Hodesh 1403- 

Hodevah  (Hodaviah,  IIo- 

deiah) 1403" 

cfSudias 2S(><)>> 

Hodiah,  Ilodijah 1403-  (McAllister) 

Hoglah 1403- 

Hoham 13G5b;  1403- 

Iloise 1403- 

Hold 1403- 

cf  Fortification 113('>b  (Xicol) 

Holding 1403-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Holiness 1403b  (Lambert) 

XT  usage 1401- 

OT  usage 14031' 

cf  Sanctification 2(>81b  (Rail; 

Hollow 140  I1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Holm-tree 1405"  (Masterman) 

cf  Susanna,  History  of  2S72b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Holofernes 1405-  (Hutchison) 

Holon 1405- 

Holy 

cf  Separate 27211' 

Holyday 1405-  (T.  Lewis; 

Holy  Ghost 

cf  Holy  Spirit 1400"  (Mullins) 

Holy      Ghost       (Spirit), 

Sin  against  the 

cf  Blasphemy 485b  (Rees) 

cf  Holy  Spirit 141  lb  (Mullins) 

Holy  of  Holies 1405*  (Caldecott) 

cf  Ark  of  Covenant  .  .  .242b  (Lotz) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3261 


Holy  of  Holies — continued 
cf  Day  of  Atonement .  .32  I1'  (Moller) 

cf  Mercy-seat 2030"  (CaldeeoU) 

cf  Tabernacle.  .  .  .2SS71'  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

cf  Temple.  .  .  .2930"  (Caldecotf ;  Orr) 

Holy  One 
cf  God,  Names  of I2041'  (Mack) 

Holy  Tlace.  .  140ob  (Caldeeott) 

cf  Tabernacle 2SS7b  (Caldccott ;  Orr) 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Holy  Sepulchre 

cf  Jerusalem 1013"  (Masterman) 

Holy  Spirit 1400"  (Mullins) 

cf  Advocate 0~>"  (Mullins) 

cf     Baptism     of      the 

Holy  Spirit 399h  (Mullins) 

cf  Blasphemy -IS")1'  (Rees) 

cf  (Jhost 1224"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  God 1204"  (Rees) 

cf  Grace 1290"  (Easton) 

cf      Johannine       The- 
ology   1700"  (Law) 

In     non-canonical    lit- 
erature  i-ton1' 

cf  Paraclete 22 4 f>"  (Mullins) 

cf  Pauline  Theology  .  .2290"  (Easton) 

cf  Personality  of 1701"  (La\v) 

cf  Salvation 2009"  (Easton) 

cf  Sanctification 2081 b  (Rail) 

cf  Spirit 2X4 lb  (Marais) 

Teaching  in  the  NT..  .1410" 
In   the   Kingdom   of 

God 1412" 

In  the  life  of  Christ.  1410" 
In    other    NT    writ- 
ings  1417b 

In  Paul's  writings. .  .  1415" 
Teaching  in  the  OT  .  .  .1400" 
In  external  nature.  .  1407" 
Imparting  powers  for 

service 1407b 

In  prophecy 1408" 

cf  Tongues,  Gift  of. .  .  .299/)b  (Easton) 

Hornam  (Heman) 141 7b 

Home 14171'  (Downer) 

Home-born 1418" 

Homer 1418" 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures   3079"  (Porter) 

Homicide 1418"     (Levertof'f);      740b 

(Ilirsch) 
cf  Refuge,  Cities  of...  .  2/)45b  (Ewing) 

Honest,  Honesty 1118b  (Orr) 

Honey 141 8b  (Patch) 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager) 

cf  Pannag 2237b  (Masterman) 

cf  Wine 3080"  (Easton) 

Honorable 1419"  (W.  L.  Walken 

Hood 1419" 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

cf  Hat  .  .  .  .1343"  (Eager) 


Hoof 

cf  Chew  Cud 00.")' '  (\.  Isaacs; 

cf  Cloven 071"  (Jacobs) 

Hook 1419"  (Easton; 

cf  Flesh-hook.  .  ..11  19b  (I)oolan) 

cf  Jaw.  .  lf)72"  (M.  ().  Evans; 

cf  Thorns,  Thistle-;,  etc  2971"  (Masterman) 

Hoopoe 1419"  (Stral  ton-Porter) 

cf  Lapwing    .  .  .  1839b 

Hope.  .  1  I !'.»>'  (Easton; 

cf  Eschatology  of  the 

NT 979b  (Yos; 

cf  Faith 10871'  (l)unelmj 

cf  Forgiveness 1  1321'  (Morro) 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .   1.1301'  (Orellij 
cf  Kingdom  of  God.  .  .  ISO.")"  (Stalker; 

cf  Messiah 2039"  (Crichton) 

In  NT 1  120" 

InOT U19b 

cf  Parousia 2249"  (Easton) 

cf  Salvation 200o"  (Easton) 

Hophni  and  Phinehas.  .  .  1421"  (Wallace) 

cf  Ichabod 1440b  (Wallace; 

cf  Phinehas 2385b  (Wallace) 

Hophra 

cf  Pharaoh  Hophra.  .  .  2359b  (Nicol) 

Hor,  Mount 1 121"  (Ewing) 

cf  Ilalak,  Mount 1322"  (Ewing) 

Horarn 1421b 

Horeb 
cf  Massah  and  Meribah  2007"  (lowing) 

cf  Sinai 2S()2b  (Conder) 

Horem 1421b 

Horesh 1421b 

Hor-haggidgad 1  t21b 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  3004"  (Conder) 

Hori 1421b 

Horite,  Horim H21b  (Sayce) 

cf  Hivite 1402"  (Sayce) 

Ilormah 1  422"  (Ewing) 

Horn 1  122"  (Easton) 

cf  Altar 1  ();>'>  (Wiener) 

cf  Horns  of  the  Altar.  .  1422b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Ink-horn 1409b  (Richardson) 

cf  Lift 189()b  (Easton) 

cf  Music 209 4b  (Millar) 

Hornet 1  122b  (Day) 

Horns  of  the  Altar 1 422b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Altar 100b  (Wiener) 

cf  Horn 1422"  (Easton) 

Horns,  Rams' 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

Horns,  Stream  of 

cf  Shihor 2708"  (Kyle) 

Horonaim 1423"  (Ewing) 

Horonite 1423" 

cf  Bet.h-horon 440"  (Masterman) 

Horrible 1423"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Horror 1423" 

Horse 1423"  (Day) 

cf  Camel o47b  (Day) 

cf  Swift  Beasts.  .         .  .2S7f>h 


3202 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Hot-so,  Black 
cf  Revolat  io.i  of  .lolui 
Horse  Gate 
cf  Jerusalem  
Horse   Red 

1423'' 
.25S2b  (Orr) 

.  KiOii1'  •;  Mastermaii  ) 
.  1  123!' 
.  .25S21'  (Orr) 
.1421' 
.  .2r)S21)  (Orr) 
.1421-  (Day) 
.3045b 

.2")  I1'  (Nicol) 

I  loin's  of  Prayer 

1434-  (Dosker) 

House 

.1434''  (A.C.  Dickie) 
.721'*  (Mack) 
1121-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Corner-stone  
cf  Eold    Kolding 

cf  Furniture  
cf  (  lexer  
cf  Habitation  
cf  Hearth 

.  1  !.")()-  (Reeve) 
.  1222-  (Masterman) 
.1313-  (Orr) 
.13f>l''  (Downer) 
.1393b  (Caldecott) 
.  143S"  (Orr) 
.  1  13S-  (Doskor) 
.1793''  (Pollard) 
.  2007" 

cf  Revelation  of  John 
Horse,  White  
cf  Revelation  of  John 
Horseleach  
cf  Vampire 

cf  Hinge             

cf  House  of  God.  .  .  . 
cf  Household  
cf  Key  
cf  Mason          

Horseman 

cf   \rmv 

Horses  of  the  Sun  
cf  Sun-worship  

.  .1  121" 
.2S701'  (Orr) 

cf  Pakce 

.220S-  (Orr) 
.  224S1' 
.2423"  (M.  O.  Evans) 
.2930-  (Caldecott;  Orr) 
,2981b 
.  3039"  (Orr) 
.1101-  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.117r>" 
.1438"  (Orr) 
.  1  13''  (Ewing) 

Hosah                

.  1  12  1" 
.1424"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.1424''  (J.  Robertson) 
.142(>' 
.1  13  11' 
li- 
.  1427" 
k- 
.  .  1  127" 
or 
.  1  1201' 
.  .  1  12(>b 
.  127C)1'  (Reeve) 
.  153X1'  (Orelli) 
.1907'  (Lees) 
.  1  12-1" 
.  1  125" 
al 
.  1  12.-)  « 
.2G4S-  (Reeve) 

518"  (Wolf) 

cf  Parlor 

Hosanna  
Hosea              

cf  Post                    .... 

The  book  
Concern  for  Israel. 
Contents      and      < 
visions  
Historical          b;u 
ground  

cf  Tile,  Tiling  -. 
cf  I'pper  Chamber.  . 
House,  Father's  
I  louse,  Garden  

1  louse  of  God 

cf  Bethel 

References  to  earl 
history  

cf  House  
Household  
cf  House  
Household,  Caesar's  .  . 

.1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 
.143S-  (Dosker) 
.1434''  (A.  C.  Dickie) 
.f)37"  (Rutherfurd) 
.143S1' 

Style  and  scope.  .  . 
cf  Goiner  (his  \vife)  . 
cf  Israel,  Religion  of 
cf  Lo-ammi 

Housetop 
cf  House                   .  . 

341'  fA.  C.  Dickie) 

The  prophet  
The  prophet,  date  .  . 
The   prophet,    persoi 
history  i  marriage 
cf  Sacrifice,  OT  
Ilosen 

Ho\v,    Howbeit,    Howso- 
ever    143S>>  (W.L.Walker) 
Ilozui                 143'.)-  (McAllister) 

cf  Apocrypha  . 

Huckster  

.  .17S'>  (T.  W.  Daviesj 
.1439" 
.1439" 

.  .1-131" 

.  .1  131  ' 

Hukkok  

1  loshania            

Hukok 
cf  Helkath  
Hul    

.  .13701' 
.  1439" 

Hoshca             

.  .1431"  (Caldecott) 

n_.  .1,,,.,    /'YV-^.i  \ 

.  .2202' 
143°"  (E-iston") 

Huldah.. 

.1439"  (Reeve) 

cf  Broad  

.  .51  l!l  (Eager)                                  Huleh,  Lake 
].\'}'V>                                                  cf  Jordan  

.  .1733-  (Wright) 

.207.")-  (Nicol) 
.  .2l'>f),v  (McGlothlin) 
.  .  2(i47b  (Reeve) 

.  .1792-  (Easton) 
.  .233S"  (Warfield) 
.  .2457-  (Edwards) 

cf  (  lucst       

.  130S1'  (Clippingeri 
.  15571'  (Schenk  ) 
.  14321' 

Human  Sacrifice 
cf  Moloch  

,,f    T.UJ 

In  the  OT            .... 

cf  Sacrifice,  Human  . 
cf  Sacrifice,  OT  
Humiliation  of  Christ, 
cf  Kenosis  
cf  Person  of  Christ  .  . 
cf  Pri/e 

cf  Relationships,  Fai 

ily 

n- 

.  .255(>b(N.andE.  D.  Isaacs) 
>.2ol4::  (l)unelm) 
.  .2G51-  (Williams) 
.  .1  I33h  (Orr) 
.  .132'>  (J.  M.  Wilson) 
300b  (Maunder) 

cf  Romans,  Epistle  t 
cf  Sacrifice,  NT  .  . 
Host  of  Heaven  
cf  Angel  
cf  \stronomv 

Humility  
Humps  (Bunches)  .... 
i  lumtah            

.  .1439b  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.  .1440" 
.  .1440- 

cf  Lord  of  Hosts.  .  .  . 
Hostage 
cf  Wai- 

.  .1919" 
30691'  (Nicol) 

Hundred 
cf  Number  
Hun<rer                   

.  .2157-  (Smith) 
.  .  1440-  (Macalistor) 

Hosts,  Lord  of  

.  .1919- 
1  1'^t  t'i 

1  lunt  ing  

.  .  1440-  (Smith) 

1434:1 

cf  Fowler  

.1143"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Hough 

_f    "[]„,,  1- 

1402b 

Methods  of 

.  .  144()b 

In  OT  

.  .  1440b 

.  .1434-  (Porter) 
.  .29SL1'  (Porter) 

Hupham  

.  .1441'' 

cf  Time  .  . 

Huppah  

.  .1441b 

GENERAL IXDKX 


Huppini 

cf  Huphiun.  14  4 11' 

Ilur 144  lb  (Downer) 

Hurai 1  142" 

Hurai  (Iliddai).  .  .  .  1388b 

ITui-am  (Hiram) 1 1  12' 

Huri 14-12" 

Hurt 1442°  (Orr) 

Husband 1442"  (Eager) 

Husbandman,    IIusl  >and- 

ry 14-12''  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 7f>b  (Patch) 

Husband's  Brother 1442b  (Crannell) 

cf  Family I094b  (Cavorno) 

Hushah 1443" 

Hushai 1443"  (Reeve) 

Hushain 1  143" 

Hushathite 11  13" 

cf  Mebunnai 20101'  (Wallace) 

cf  Sibbeccai 27X3" 

Hushiin 1 1  13" 

Hushshathite 

cf  Hushathite 1443" 

Husks 1443"  (Masterman) 

Huz 

cf  Uz 3042"  (Reeve) 

Huzzab 14431'  (Crannellj 

Hyacinth  (Jacinth) 1443b 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2800"  (Fletcher) 
Hyades 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

Hydaspes 1443b 

Hydrornancy 33  lb  (T.  W.  Davics) 

Hyena 1443b  (Day) 

Hyksos 

cf  Joseph 1739"  (Kyle) 

Hymenaeus 1444"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Alexander 90"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Philetus 2307b  (Rutherfurd) 

Hymn 1445"  (Millar) 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

cf  Song 2S3()b  (Millar) 

Hypocrisy,  Hypocrite.  .  .144.')"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Hyrcanus II  15b 

cf  Aristobulus 241b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Asmoneans 283"  (Dosker) 

cf  Maccabaeus 1940"  (Hutchison) 

cf  Tobias 299()b 

Hyssop 14451' 

cf  Heifer,  Red 1307b  (Eastern) 

I,  I  Am,  I  Am  That  I  Am 

cf  God,  Names  of 1207b  (Mack) 

I  Will  Be 

cf  God,  Names  of 1267h  (Mack) 

lacimus 

cf  Alcimus 89b  (Mack) 

lacubus  (Akkub) 1446" 

ladinus  (Jamin) 1446a 

Ibelin 

cf  Jabneel 1547"  (Porter) 


Ibhar  (Juehabar,)  .  .  .  1440" 

Ibis 1440" 

cf  Owl 2205b  (Stratton-Porterj 

Ibleam  (Bileamj 1446a  (Irving) 

cf  Gath-rimmon 1178"  (Ewing) 

Ibneiah.  .  .    .1440" 

Ibnijah 1440" 

Ibri 1440" 

Ibsam 14  40b 

Ib/an 1410''  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Ice 1440b  (Joy) 

Figurative M40b  (Joy) 

Ichabod 1440b  (Wallace) 

cf  Ilophnr  and  Phine- 

has 1421"  (Wallace) 

Iconium 1440b  (Calder) 

cf  Lycaonia 1942b  (Calder) 

cf  Lystra 1944"  (Calder) 

Idalah 1447a 

Idbash 1447b 

Iddo  (Addo,  Oded) 1447b  (Crannell) 

cf  Jadau 1557" 

Idle,  Idleness 1447b  (T.  Lewis) 

Idol 

cf  Image 1450"  (Edwards) 

Idolatry 1447b  (Cobcrn) 

cf  Calf,  Golden 298";  542b  (Cobern) 

cf  Divination 800"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Fire 1112"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Gods 1270b  (Reeve) 

cf  Harlot 1339b  (Eager) 

cf  High  Place 1390"  (Easton) 

cf  Image 1450"  (Edwards) 

cf  Images 1452a  (Cobern) 

cf  Jeremiah 1589b  (Orelli) 

Idols 

cf  Gods 1270b  (Reeve) 

Iduel  (Ariel) 1448b 

Idumaea,  Idumaeans. .  .  .  1448b 

cf  Edom 899"  (Ewing) 

leddias  (Eddias) 1448b 

leiel 

cf  Jehiah 1574" 

lezer,  lezerites 1448h 

cf  Abiezer 9"  (Beecher) 

Igal 1448b 

Igdaliah 14481' 

Igeal 1448b 

Ignatius,  Ep.  of 

cf  Literature,  Sub-apos  1899b  (Cowan) 

Ignorance 1448b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

lirn  (lyim) 1545" 

Ije-abarim 

cf  lye-abarim 1545a 

Ijon 1449"  (Ewing) 

Ikkesh 1449" 

Ilai  (Zalmon) 1449" 

cf  Zalmon 3131b  (Ewing) 

Iliadun 1449a 

cf  Henadad 1374b 

111,  Ill-favored 

cf  Evil-favoredness. .  .  .  1043"  (Luering) 


3204 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Illumination 1449"  (East on) 

Illustrious,  The 1449l> 

cfApame .  .  1001' 

cf  Bartacus 40Gb 

Illyricum 14491'  (Tod) 

cf  Dalmatia 7771'  (Tod) 

Imnge 1450"  (Edwards ) 

Christ,  linage  of 1451" 

cf  Divination SGO"  (T.  W.  Daviesi 

cf  Idolatry 14471'  (Cobern) 

cf  Images 1452"  (Cobern) 

Man  in  Divine  image. .  1450a 

cf  Pillar 2398''  (Orr) 

Image  of  Cod 12G-4'1  (Orr) 

Imagery 1452"  (Edwards! 

cf  Images 1452"  (Cobern) 

Images •  •  .1452"  (Col)ern) 

cf  Astarte  (Ashtaroth)  .270"  (Ewing) 
Bible  references.  .1454" 

cf  Calf,  Golden 298-  5-121'  (C1(»bern) 

cf  Chambers  of  Image- 
ry  592" 

cf  Chariots  of  the  Sun  590''  (Margolis) 

cf  Ephod 8"  (Beecher) 

cf  Harlot 1 339''  (Eager) 

cf  Idolatry 1447b  (Cobern) 

cf  Image 1450"  (Edwards  i 

cf  Xehnshtan 2132"  (Longacre) 

Origin  of 1452b 

cf  Palestine,  Recent  Ex- 

ploration.  ...  .  .2222''  (Cobern) 

cf  Pillar 239S''(Orr) 

cf  Totemism 30()0:i  (M.  < ).  Evans 

Imagination 1450"  (W.  L.  Walker 

Imagine 1450"  (W.  L.  Walker 

Imalcne 1450"  (Hutchison) 

Imla,  Imlah.  .  .1456b 

Immaculate  Conception  .  1450''  (Sweet) 

cf  Mary  (Virgin) 2001h  ( Sweet  1 

Xot    to    be     confused 

with  Virgin-birth.     . 145Gb 
Roman    Catholic    dog- 
ma  145Gb 

cf  Virgin-birth 3052"  (Sweet ) 

Immanuel  (Emmanuel). .  1457b  (A.  W.  Evans 
Child       prophecy      of 

Isaiah 1457b 

cf  Isaiah,  Book  of 1501"  (Robinson) 

cf  Messiah 2040"  (Crichton) 

cf  Person  of  Christ. .  .  .2338"  (Warfield) 
cf  Quotations,  XT.  .  .  .2517b  (Sweet) 
Relation   to   Messianic 

hope 1458b 

cf  Shear-jashub 2752b 

cf  Sign 2789"  (Stuart) 

cf  Virgin 3051b  (Easton) 

cf  Virgin-birth 3052"  (Sweet ) 

Immer 1458b 

Immortal,  Immortality  .1458b  (Orr) 

Biblical  doctrine 1460a 

Christian  doctrine.  .  .  .  1460b 
Christian  hope 14GOb 


Immortal,  Immortality — continued 

cf  Death 81  lb  (Bavinck) 

Doctrine  in  OT 1400" 

Egyptian  doctrine ...    1459" 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT.  972"  (Orr) 

cf  Hell 1371"  (Orr) 

cf  Incorrupt  ion 14GG1' 

cf  Lif,- 18S8"  (Reeve) 

cf  Mortal,  Mortality.  .2083" 

Origin  of  belief 1459" 

cf    Punishment,    Ever- 
lasting  25011';  25()3h  (Orr) 

cf  Resurrection 25G2"  (Easton  i 

cf  Retribution 2570"  (M'Caig) 

cf  Sheol 2701"  (Orr) 

Immutability,          Immu- 
table  14G11' 

cf    Faithful.    Faithful- 
ness  1088''  (Hodge) 

cf  Unchangeable 3033"  (Hodge) 

Imna U011' 

Imnah IK')!1' 

cf  Jimnah 1G771' 

Imnites  (Jimnites) 14G11' 

Impart 14G11' 

cf  Add 511'  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Impediment 14G1'1 

Imi)erial  Guard,  Roman. 257''  (Allen  i 

Implead 1462" 

Importable 1 4G2" 

Importunity 1402"  (Estes) 

Imposition  of  Hands.  .  .  .1335"  (Orr) 

cf  Keys,  Power  of 1794"  (Carver) 

Impossible 1462" 

Impotent 1402"  (Macalister) 

Imprisonment 

cf  Prison.  .  .  .2450"  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Punishments 250  I1'  'Hirsch 

Impurity 

cf  I'ncleanness 3035''  (Williams) 

Imputation 1402"  (Hodge) 

Of  Adam's  sin 1403" 

cf  Atonement G271'  (Orr) 

Basis  of  doctrines 1403" 

Of    Christ's   righteous- 
ness  14G4" 

Doctrines  of .  .  .  .1402'' 

cf  Justification 17821'  (Faulkner) 

Of      world's      sin      to 

Christ 14G3h 

Imrah 14GG" 

Imri 1460" 

In 1400"  (Orr) 

In  the  Lord 1400"  (Edwards) 

Incantation 

cf  Magic 1903"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Incarnation 092b  (Tisdall) 

cf  Accommodation  .  .  .33a  (Sweet) 
cf  Johannine  Theology  1699a  (Law) 
cf  Person  of  Christ. .  .  .2342b  (Warfield) 

Incense 1466"(Orr) 

cf  Altar  of  Incense. .  .  .  lllb  (Caldecott) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Incense — contin  nal 

cf  Censer 587''  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Frankincense 1 145a  (Mastcrman) 

cf  Perfume 232  lb  (Patch) 

cf  Tabernacle 2SS71'  (Caldeeott ;   On-) 

cf  Temple..  .  .  .2930"  •  (Caldeeott;   On-) 

Incest .  .  .747a  (Hirseh) 

Incontinency  .  .  ...  1 4( >6b 

Incorrupt  ion 1466b 

cf    Immortal,     Immor- 
tality .  .  .  14f>S''  (Orr) 

Increase 1 466b  (Miller) 

India 1467"  (Ewing) 

Indignities 

cf  Punishments 2/)04b  (Hirsch) 

Indite 1467" 

Infancy,  Gospel  of  the 

cf  Apocryphal  dispels  19f>"  (Hutchison) 
Infancy  Narrations 

cf  Mary  (Virgin) 2()()lh  (Sweet) 

Infant  Baptism 

cf  Baptism 3SXb  (T.  M.  Lindsay); 

396b  (Dau) 
Infanticide 

cf  Crimes 747"  (Hirsch) 

cf  Molech 2074"  (Xicol) 

Infidel 1467"  (Carver) 

Infinite 1467"  (Orr) 

cf  Omnipresence 2190"  (Vos) 

cf  Omniscience 2191"  (Vos) 

Infinitude 1467*  (Orr) 

Infirmity 1468"  (Macalister) 

Inflame 1468a 

Inflammation 1468" 

cf  Fever 1107b  (Macalister) 

Influences 1468"  (W.  L.  Walker . 

Ingathering,  Feast  of 
cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .  1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Inhabit 14G8a  (Edwards) 

cf  Dwell 883b  (Edwards) 

Inhabitant 1468"  (Edwards) 

Inheritance 1468b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Heir 1309"  (Easton) 

cf  Patrimony 2264"  (Mack) 

Iniquity 1468b  (Edwards) 

Injoin  (Enjoin) 9.r)2b 

Injurious 1469a 

Injury 

cf  Crimes 745b  (Hirsch) 

Ink 1469"  (Richardson) 

cf  Ink-horn 1469b  (Richardson.) 

cf  Pen 2297b  (Patch) 

cf  Writing 3119";  3122"  (Richardson) 

Ink-horn 1469b  (Richardson ) 

cf  Horn 1422"  (Easton) 

cf  Ink 1469"  (Richardson) 

cf  Pen 2297b  (Patch) 

cf  Print 24")5a  (Richardson) 

cf  Writing 3119a;  3122"  (Richardson) 

Inn 1470"  (Christie) 

Earliest 1470a 

Public  .  .  .  .  1470a 


Inner  Man 

cf  Inward  Man 1490b  (Pratt) 

Innocence,        Innocency, 

Innocent 1470b  (Forrester) 

Innocents,     Massacre    of 

the .  .  1471"  (Sweet) 

cf  Virgin-birth  of  Jesus 

Christ  ...  .  ,30.-)2"  (Sweet) 

Inordinate 14721'  (Edwards) 

Inquire.  ...  1472b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Divination SGO"  (T.  W.  Davies. 

Inquisition 14721' 

Inscription 1473" 

cf  Archaeology 226"  (Kyle) 

cf  Assyria 290b  (Saycc- 

cf  Babylonia 3.~j8b  (Clay) 

Inscription,  Siloam 

cf  Siloam 2792b  (Mastcrman) 

Insects 1473"  (Day) ;  1 124"  (Eager) 

cf  Locust 19071'  (Day) 

cf  Moth 209lb  (Day) 

cf  Palmer-worm 2236a 

cf  Sand  Flics 26S8b 

cf  Scorpion 2703b  (Day) 

cf  Spider 2840b  (Day) 

Inspiration 1473"  (Warfield) 

cf  Biblical  claims  to.  .  .468"  (Orr) 

cf  Cain 538b  (Farr) 

Christ's  testimony.  .  .  .1476b 

Divine  activity 1479b 

Fulfilment  of  Scripture  1476" 

Human  element 1479" 

cf  Interpretation 1489"  (Schodde) 

Of  NT 1483" 

Occurrences  in  Bible.  .  1473h 

cf  Prophecy 2460"  (Orelli) 

And  Providence 1481" 

And  Revelation 1482" 

cf  Revelation 2")77"  (Warfield) 

Witness  of  Apostles.  .  .  1477" 

Instant,  Instantly 1483b  (Miller) 

Instruction 

cf  Catechist 582b  (Gerberding) 

cf  Education 900b  (Meyer) 

cf  Schoolmaster 2702b  (Easton) 

Instrument 1483b 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

Instruments  of  Music  .  .  .  1484a 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

Insurrection 1484a 

Integrity 1484a  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf    Urim    and    Thum- 

mim 3040b  (N.  Isaacs) 

Intelligence 1484a 

Intend,  Intent 1484a  (Miller) 

Intercession 1484a  (Bevan) 

Of  Christ 1487" 

In  the  Gospels 1486b 

By  holy  men 1485b 

Of  the  Holy  Spirit    .  .  .1487b 

cf  Prayers  of  Jesus. .  .  .2431b  (Bevan) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Intercession  of  Christ  .  .  .  1487b  (Bevan) 
of  IntercesMon  .  .  .  .  14S4:i  (Bevan) 
cf  Prayer  of  Jesus  .  ,2431b  (Bevan) 

Interest M88b  (Reeve  > 

cf  Usury 3041b  (Pollard) 

Intermeddle 1 489"  CM.  O.  Evans 

[ntermocliate  Slate 
cf  Eschatology   of   the 

NT 979b  (Vos) 

Interpretation 1  1S9:1  (Schoddei 

cf  Accommodation..  .  .29-  (Sweet) 

cf  Inspiration 1473-  (AYarficld 

Interpretation   of    Chris- 
tianity 
cf  Leviticus 1880-  (Mo'llen 

Interpretation  of  Tongues 

cf  Tongues,  (lift  of.  .  .2995'-  (Ea.ston) 

Interrogation 149' )'' 

[nter-testamental       His- 
tory and  Literatim1 
cf  Between  the  Testa- 
ments  455-  (Dosker) 

Intreat,  Entreaty.         ,  .  .  MM)1'  (Miller) 

Inward  Man 149()b  (Pratt) 

Inward  Part 14901'  (Prat!) 

cf  Inward  Man 14901'  (Pratt) 

lob  (Jashub) M91- 

loiada 

cf  Jehoiada 1578-  (Roberts. 

I])hdeiah 1491' 

Iphtah 1491' 

Iphtah-el 149 1'  (Ewing) 

Ir 1491' 

Ira 1491  •'  (Farr) 

cf  Gareb 1175- 

cf  J'airite 1559'  (Roberts) 

Irad 1401" 

Irani 1491' 

Irenaeus 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of..  .  .1989''  (Farmer > 

Ir-ha-heres .  .  .  .  .1191'  (Kyle) 

cf  Ileres.  .                        .  137(>b  (Mastennan) 
cf  On 2193-  (Kyle) 

Iri 

cf  Ir 1491' 

cf  Urias 3040- 

Irijah 1  191" 

Ir-nahash 1492s* 

Iron 1492b  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734-  (Patch) 

cf  Metals 2044-  (Patch) 

Iron  (city. 1402'- 

Irpeel 1492'- 

Irreverence 

cf  Crime,  Crimes 745b  (Hirsch) 

Irrigation 1492b  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 76a  (Patch) 

cf  Garden 1174-  (Patch) 

Ir-shemesh 1493a 

cf  Beth-shemesh 453-  (Kyle) 

cf  Heres.  .  .  .  137b'b  (Mastennan) 


1m 

I  saac 

cf  Abraham 

Biblical  references  to 


1493" 

1493-  (Boyd  i 
IS-  (Boyd  ) 
1495- 


cf  Family  of,  in  Genesis;  1208-  (Moller) 

cf  Jacob lf>r>0-  (Boyd) 

Marriage  of 1494" 

cf  Sacrifice  of .  .  .  .  19-  (Boyd) 

cf  Sarah 2(191  -  (Boyd) 

Isaac,  Testament  of 
cf   Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture. .  .' lt)lb  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Isaiah 1  195b  (Robinson) 

Book  of 14971' 

Analysis 14971' 

Arrangement  of  .  .  .  .1503- 

Contents 14971' 

Critical  problem. .  .  .1504- 

Crit  icism 1504- 

cf  Immanuel 1  157'1  (A.  W.  Evans) 

Kecent  views 15041' 

Woes 1500- 

cf  Dial  of  Ahax 841-  (Maun.ler) 

cf  lle/ekiah 138(1-  (Genung) 

cf  Judah 17(ilb  (Weir) 

Literary  genius 149(1- 

Martyrdom  of 1  19(1'' 

cf  Messages  to  Aha/..  .Slb  (Caldecott  > 

cf  Messiah 2040-  (Crichton) 

cf  Micah 204(V>  (Orelli) 

Name1 1  195b 

cf  Palestine 2219-  (Conder) 

Personal    history    and 

call 1495b 

Prophecies 1503- 

Prophetic  ministry. .  .  .  1496- 
cf  Servant  of  Jehovah 

(The  Lord).  .  .2739-  (Hough) 

Times  of 149(1- 

Isaiah,  Ascension  of 
cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture  Kil1'  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Iscah 15081' 

[scariot 

cf  Ish 15()8b 

cf  Judas  Iscariot 17G51'  (Kerr) 

Isdael  (Giddel) 1508b 

Ish 150Sb 

cf  Eshban 997- 

cf  Ishtob 1511- 

Ishbaal 

cf  Ish-bosheth 1508b  (Broslich) 

Ishbah 15081' 

Ishbak 15081' 

Ishbi-benob 1508b 

Ish-bosheth 1508b  (Breslich) 

cf  Ishvi 1511- 

cf  Mephibosheth 2033b  (Wallace) 

cf  Saul 2699b  (Weir) 

Ishhod 1508b 

cf  Ishod 1511» 

Ishi..  ..1509a 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3207 


Ishi  (person)  

1509-  (Karri 

Ishiah 

cf  Isshiah  

1  f)  12h 

Ishijah 

cf  Isshijah  

I542b 

Ishina  

509a 

Ishinaol  (Greek)  

510b 

Ishmael  (Hebrew) 

509-  (Baur) 

cf  Gedaliah  

181-  (Crichton) 

of  Isinael  

51  lb 

cf  Sarah  

2091-  (Boyd) 

Son  of  Abraham. 

509" 

Son  of  Nethaniah.  .  . 

510- 

Ishmaelites  

1510"  (Porter) 

Islnnaiah  

L510b 

Ishtneelites 

cf  Ishmaelites  

1510>>  (Porter) 

Ishmcrai  

I510b 

Ishod  (Ishhod)  

1511a 

Ishpah  

1511a 

Ishpan  

1511a 

Ish-sechel  

151  1!1 

Ishtar  

371-  (Rogers) 

Ishtob  

1511a 

cf  Ish  

1  50Sb 

Ishuah  

1511- 

cf  Ishvah  

1511- 

cf  Ishvi  

1511- 

Ishuai  

151  la 

cf  Ishvi  

1511a 

Ishui  (Ishuai)  

1511- 

Ishvah  

1511" 

Ishvi  

1511" 

cf  Ish-boshcth  

150S1'  (Breslich) 

Ishvites  (Ishvi)  

1511" 

Island  

loll"  (Day) 

cf  Arvad  

201"  (Por(.er) 

cf  Coast  

(172-  (Day) 

cf  Jackal  

15  48"  (Day) 

cf  Wolf  

30991'  (Day) 

Isle  (Island)  

1511"  (Day) 

Isles  of  the  Gentiles  

1511b 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  . 

2S9S><  (Pinches) 

Ismaohiah  

1511b 

cf  Scmachiah  

2717- 

Ismael 

cf  Ishinaol  (Greek).  .  .  . 

I510b 

Ismaerus  (Omaerus)  .  .  .  . 

151  1'>;  2188b 

Ismaiah 

cf  Islnnaiah  

1510b 

Ispah 

cf  Ishpah  

1511s 

Israel 

cf  Jacob  

15-491'  (Hoyd) 

Israel,     History     of     the 

People  

151  lb  (Orolli) 

cf  Calf,  Golden  

r>42b  (Cobern);   1275 

cf  In  Canaan  

912;l  (Petrie) 

Chronology  

1520- 

Divided  kingdoms,  the 

1520" 

Division  of  the  nation 

1519b 

Downfall  of  Judah  . 

1525" 

Israel,  History  of  the  People — continual 

In  Egypt..'  .  .1514b 

Exile,  the 1 525-' 

of  Gedaliah.  .  .  .1181"  (Crichton  i 

Creek  period  of  1527" 

cf  Asmoneans 2S3-  (Dosker) 

of  Maocabaeus.  19-10"  (Hutchison] 

of  Isntel,  Kingdom  of.    152S1'  (Weir) 

of  Israel,  Religion  of.  .  1530b  (Orelli] 

of  Josephus  Klavius.  .  .17-12"  (Wenley) 

Kings ..15201' 

Leadership  of  Muses.  .  15151' 

The  literary  prophets  .  15221' 

Maccabees,  the 15271' 

Moses 1515" 

of  Israel,  Religion  of .  15341'  (Orelli) 

Origins 15131' 

Period  of  the  Judges.  .  15171' 

of  Providence 2-1771'  (Tillett) 

Religious  character  of.  15121' 

Return     and     restora- 
tion  15201' 

Roman  period 15271' 

of  Slave,  Slavery 2815"  (Raffety) 

Sources 1512" 

cf  Tribes  of 1 758b  (Weir) 

United  kingdom 1518'' 

Israel,  Kingdom  of 152S1'  (Weir) 

Battle  of  Karkar 1529'' 

Decline  and  fall 1530" 

Early  dynasties 1528- 

cf  Israel,  History  of  the 

People 151  lb;   1522-  (Orelli) 

cf  Judah,  Kingdom  of.  1758-  (Weir) 

cf  Palestine 2217-  (Condor 

Revolution  of  Jehu. .  .  .  1529b 

Syrian  wars 1 529" 

Israel,  Religion  of 153()b  (Orelli) 

Amos  and  Ilosea 1538b 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture   101b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Before' eighth  century.  1530b 

Elijah  and  Elisha 1538" 

Exile,  the 1539'' 

God,  conception  of. ...  15331' 

cf  Hope 14191'  (Eastonj 

of  Israel,  History  of.  .  .1511''  (Orelli) 

Moses,  teachings  of  .  .  .  1534b 

Post -exilic  period 1540" 

Pro-Mosaic  period  ....  1531'' 

Psalms,  teachings  of  .  .  1537" 

cf  Somites,  Semitic  Re- 
ligion  2717-  (Mack) 


cf  Totemism .... 
Israelite,  Israeli* isli 
Issachar 

of  Galilee 

of  Numbers,  Bool 

Isshiah 

Isshijah  (Aseas! 

Issue 

Issue  (of  Blood) .  . 


.3000-  (M.  O.  Evans) 

.  1541b 

.  1541h  (Ewing) 

.  1103-  (Ewing) 

.2103-  (Whitolaw) 

. 1 542b 

. 1542b 

.  15-121' 

.1512''  (Macalisterj 


3268 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Issues..  . .1542h 

Istalcurus 1542b 

Istiah 

cf  Ishvah 1511" 

Isui 

cf  Ishvi 1511- 

Isvah 

cf  Ishvah 1511' 

Itala  Version 

cf  Vulgate 30/5S1-  i  Angus) 

Italian  Band 

cf  Army,  Roman 25Sb  (Allen) 

cf  Band 3S2b  (Nicol) 

Italy Io42b  (Allen) 

cf  Rome 2018"  (Allen) 

Itch 1543"  (Macalistert 

Ithai 

cf  Ittai 1543b  (Reeve) 

Ithamar 1/513"  (Whilelaw) 

cf  Zadok 31291'  (Whit  daw) 

Ithiol 1543" 

cf  Ithiel  and  I'cal 1543h  (Genung) 

cf  Teal 3032"  (Roberts) 

Ithiel  and  Ucal .  .  .  .  l.r>43b  (Genung; 

cf  Ithiel 1543" 

Tthlah 1543b 

Ithrnah 1543b 

Ithnan 1543b 

Ithra 1543b 

Ifhran 1543b 

Ithream 1543b 

Ithrite 1543b 

Ittah-kazin l.")43b 

Ittai 1543h  (Reeve) 

Ituraea  (I (urea) 1544"  (Ewing) 

cf  Jetur 1(575" 

Ituraeans 1544"  (Ewing) 

Ivah 

cf  Hena 13741'  (Ewing) 

cf  Ivvah 1544>>  (Pinches) 

Ivory ir,44b(Day) 

Ivory,  Tower  of 1544b 

Ivvah 1544b  (Pinches) 

cf  Sepharvaim 272 lb  (Pinches) 

Ivy 1545"  (Hutchison; 

lyar 

cf  lyyar 15451' 

lye-abarim 1545" 

lyim ir)4f>" 

lyyar 1545b 

cf  Calendar 541b  (Porter) 

Izehar 

cf  Izhar 1545b 

Izhar 15451' 

Izharites 1545b 

Izliah  (Jezliah) 1545b 

Izrahiah 154  5tp 

Izrahite 15451' 

Izri 1545b 

cf  Zeri 31471' 

Izziah.  .  .  . 1545b 


(Masterman) 

(Roberts) 


Jaakan 

cf  Beeroth-bene-jaakan424b 

Jaakobah 1545" 

Jaala 1545* 

Jaalam 

cf  Jalam 1559b 

Jaanai 

cf  Janai loG<Sa 

Jaar 154ob 

cf  Kiriatli-jearim 1S111 

Jaare-oregim 1045'' 

.laareshiah ir)4G;i 

Jaasai  (Jaasau,  Jaasu) . . 1546U 

Jaasicl Io4(i:i 

cf  Jasiel 1/571" 

Jaasu lf)4()" 

Jaazaniah Ia4():i  (Roberts) 

cf  Jezaniah 1675b 

Jaazer 

cf  Jazer 1/572"  (living) 

Jaaziah 1")  H>' 

.laaziel l")4()a 

Jabal l.")4()b  (Roberts) 

cf  Jubal 175C)1 

Jabbok 154Cb  (lowing) 

cf  Gilead 123()b  (Ewing) 

Jabesh l.r)4()b 

cf  Jabesh-gilead l/54Gb  (Ewing) 

Jabesh-gilead l")4()b  (lowing) 

cf  Saul 269S"  (Weir) 

Jaboz 154  7" 

Jabin l.r)47a  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Jabneel  (Jabneh) l")47a  (Porter) 

Jacan Io47b 

Jacliin ir>47b  (Crichton) 

Jaehin  and  Boaz l/547b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Lily- work l<S93b 

cf  Network 2140" 

cf  Pillar 230S''  (Orn 

cf  Temple 2932"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Jacimus 

cf  Alcimus S9b  (Mack) 

Jacinth 

cf  Hyacinth 1443b 

cf  Stones,  Precious. .  .  .  2S/5(5:l  (Fletcher) 

Jackal l-")48a  (Day) 

cf  Dragon S73"  (Day) 

cf  Fox 1144-  (Day; 

cf  Island loll"  (Day) 

cf  Jackal's  Well l/548b  (Masterman) 

cf  Satyr 2(597"  (Day) 

cf  Sea-monster 2707"  (Day) 

cf  Whale 3082"  (Day) 

cf  Wild  Beast 3084"  (Day) 

cf  Wolf 3099b  (Day) 

cf  Zoology 3155a  (Day) 

Jackal's  Well 1548b  (Masterman) 

cf  Hinnom,  Valley  of.  .  1393b  (Masterman) 
cf  Jerusalem l/597b  (Masterman) 

Jacob  (father  of  Joseph, 
husband  of  Mary) ....  1556" 

Jacob  (patriarch) 1/549"  (Boydj;   1556" 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3269 


Jacob — continued 

ef  Abraham 

Antiquity  of  name 
At  Beersheba . 
At  Bethel    . 
Blessing  and  death 


1S«  (Boyd) 
1549" 
1552" 

155()h;  155 11' 
1552" 


Contrast  with  Esau.    .  15531' 

Critical          reconstruc- 
tions   1  555" 

Dealings  with  Esau      .  1550 ' 

Development   of   char- 
acter. .  I552b 

In  Egypt 1  552:1 

Epiphanies  to 1553" 

cf  And  Esau 478b  (,).  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Family  of,  in  Gene- 
sis  120S"  (Mollerj 

In  Ilaran 1550" 

Importance  among  the 
patriarchs 15491' 

And  Israel 1554" 

Meaning  of  name   .  ...  15  19" 

As  myth  or  deity I").').')'1 

Natural  qualities 15521' 

cf  Palestine 22 K)1'  (Conder) 

References  to,  in  NT..  15541' 

References  to,  in  OT.  .  1554b 

Relat  ions  with  God  .  .  .  15531' 

Resilience  in  Canaan  .  .  1551" 

Return  to  Canaan  ....  1551" 

As  saga  hero loo")1' 

Term   denoting   Israel- 
ites   1556" 

Use  of  Divine  names  in 

story  of 1553b 

Jacob,  Testament  of 

cf  Apocalyptic   Litera- 
ture  1611'  (.}.  E.  11.  Thomson) 

Jacob's  Well 1 556b  (Ewing) 

Churches  on  site  of .  .  .  I")")?1' 

Description 1557" 

Location 15561' 

cf  Shechem 2755"  (Ewing) 

cf  Sychar 2$76b  (Ewing) 

Jacubus  (Akkub) 1557" 

Jada l.">f>7:> 

Jadau 1557" 

cf  Iddo 14471'  iCramiell) 

Jaddai 

cf  Iddo 14471'  (Crannell) 

Jaddua loo?"  (Crichton  - 

Jaddus 15571' 

cf  Barzillai 4 If)1'  (Reesi 

Jadon 1557'1  ('Crichton 

Jael I,')/;"1'  (Schenk ) ;  814"  (Mar- 

golis) 

Breach  of  hospitality    .  If)")"1' 

Praise  of 155$" 

cf  Sisera..  .  .  .2$12b  (Rchenk  i 

Jagur 1  55X" 

Jnh 

cf  God,  Names  of.       .  .  1264b  (Mack  . 


Jahath 1558b  (Crichton) 

Jahaz 1 558a  (Ewing) 

cf  Kedemoth  .  1790b 

Jahaziah  (Jahxeiah) 1559a  (Roberts) 

Jahaziel  .  1558b  (Roberts) 

cf  Uzziel  3044b  (Roberts) 

cf  Zechariali 3136a  (Easton) 

Jahdai .  .  1558b 

Jahdiel .  155Sb 

Jahdo .  1558b 

Jahleel.  .  .  .  155$b 

Jahleelites 1558b 

Jahmai 1558b 

Jahweh 

cf  God,  Names  of 12G41'  (Mack) 

Jahzah  (Jahaz) 1558" 

Jahzeel 1558b 

Jahzeelites 1 559" 

Jahzeiah 1559"  (Roberts) 

cf  Jonathan.  .  .  .  17.SO'1  (Roberts) 

Jalizerah 1559" 

Jahziel  (Jahzeel) 15581' 

Jailor 

cf  Prison 2450"  (T.  Lewis  i 

Jair 1559"  (Crichton) 

cf  llavvoth-jair 1345"  (Ewing) 

Jairite 1559"  (Roberts) 

cf  Ira 1491"  (Farr) 

Jairus 1559b  (Kerr) 

Jairus  (Apoc) 1559b 

cf  Airus $8b 

cf  Jair 1559"  (Crichton  i 

Jakan  (Akan) 88b 

Jakeh 1559b  (Crichton  ) 

cf  Agur 78"  (Genung) 

Jakim 1559b 

cf  Eliakim 929"  (S.  F.  Hunter  i 

Jalam  (Jaalani) 1559b 

Jalon 1559b 

Jambres 

cf    Jannes    and     Jam- 
bres  15(i8"  (Rutherfurd) 

Jambri 1 5591' 

James    (brother    of    the 

Lord) 1501"  (Kerri 

In    Apocryphal   litera- 
ture  15()lh 

Appearance     of     Jesus 

tO 1  ()<)<)'' 

Author    of    Epistle    of 

James 15011' 

cf     Brethren     of     the 

Lord 518b  (Jacobs) 

In  the  Epistles 1561" 

In  the  Gospels 1561" 

cf  James,  Epistle  of .  .  .  1562"  (Hayes) 
cf  Joseph,  Husband  of 

Mary 1740b  (Kern 

.lames  (the  Less;    son  of 

Alphaeus)    .  1561"  i  Kerr 

cf      Brethren      of      I  he 

Lord.  .  . .518b  ( Jacobs- 


3270 


GENERAL  INDEX 


James  (son  of  Alphaeus) — continued 
Called  James  the  Less  15Gla 
cf  Simon  the  Canaan- 
ite,    or    Cananaean, 

or  Zealot 279Sb  (Korr) 

James  (son  of  Zebedce) .  .  15GOa  (Kcrr) 

In    Apocryphal    litera- 
ture  15GOb 

A])ostleship 15GO" 

cf  Brethren  of  the  Lord  f)18b  (Jacobs) 

Call  by  Jesus 155G" 

cf  Zebedee 3134" 

James,  Epistle  of 15G2"  (Hayes) 

Authoritative  note  .  .  .  15G2b 

Authorship 15G3" 

In  church  history  .  .  .  . 15GGa 

Comparison  with  Jesus' 
style 15G4b 

Date 15G5b 

In  the  Fathers 15GG" 

Figures  of  speech 15G4a 

cf    James    (brother    of 

the  Lord) I")*)!1'  ( Kerr) 

Jesus  and  James 1567" 

Jewish  character 1562" 

cf  Justification 17Xf>h  (Faulkner) 

Modern  message 1567" 

Practical  nature1 1562b 

Style 1563b 

Vividness 1564a 

James,      Protevangelium 

of 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  195"  (Hutchison) 

Jamin  (ladinus) 1567l>;  144G!l 

Jaminites 1568" 

Jamlech 1568" 

Jamnia 

cf  Jabneel 1547"  (Porter) 

Jamnites 1 568" 

Janai  (Jaanai) 1568a 

Jangling 1568" 

Janim 1568a 

cf  Janum 15G8b 

Jannai 1  568" 

Jannes  and  Jambres l.r)G8a  (Rutherfurd) 

Janncs       and      Jambres, 

Book  of 1568>< 

Janoah 1568b  (Ewing) 

Janum 1568b 

cf  Janim 1568" 

Japhcth 15G8b  (Pinches) 

Connection  with  Greek 
lapctos 1569a 

cf  Ham 1323h  (Pinchesi 

Meaning  of  word lf)G8b 

cf  Shem 2759"  (Pinches) 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2S98b  (Pinches) 

Japhcth  (place) 1569a 

Japhia 1569a  (Crichton) 

Japhia  (place) 1569" 

Japhlet 1569a 


Japhleti 1569a 

Japho 15G9a 

cf  Joppa 1731b  (Ewing) 

Jar 

cf  Barrel 406"  (Eager) 

Jarah 15G9b 

cf  Jehoaddah 1574b 

Jareb 15G9b  (Crichton) 

Epithet     of     Assyrian 
king 15G9b 

Historical  reference1 .  .  .  15G9b 
Jared 1570" ;   139a  (Davis) 

cf  Jered 1587b 

Jaresiah 

cf  Jaareshiah 1  o4G:i 

Jarha lo~()a 

Jarib 1570a 

cf  Joribus 173G1' 

Jarimoth Io7()a 

Jarmuth 1")7()-'1  (Masterman) 

cf  Rarnoth 2.r)2»» 

cf  Remeth 2557a 

Jaroah 1570" 

Jasaelus 1  ">7()a 

Jashar 

cf  Jeshurun 1G23"  (Roberts) 

Jashar,  Book  of 1570"  (Orr) 

cf    Beth-horon,    Battle 

of 44(ib  (Maunder) 

Jashen  (Hashem) 157()b  (R.oberts) 

cf  Jonathan 173()b  (Hobertsi 

Jasher,  Book  of 

cf    Beth-horon,    Battle 

of 44Gb  (Maunder) 

cf  Jashar,  Book  of.  ...  157()a  (Orr) 

.lashobeam 1570b  (Crichton) 

Jashub 1571" 

cf  lob 14!)1" 

cf  Jashubites 1571" 

cf  Jasubus 1571b 

cf  Shear-jashub 2752b 

Jashubi-lehem 1571" 

Jashubites 1571" 

cf  Jashub 1571" 

Jasiel 1571a 

cf  Jaasiel 154Ga 

Jason 157 la  (Hutchison) 

Jason 1571b  (S.  F.  Hunter);   17a 

(Hirsch) 

Companion  of  Paul.  .  .  1571b 

Host  of  Paul  in  Thessa- 

lonica 1571b 

Jasper  (Jaspis) 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  . 285Ga  (Fletcher) 
Jasubus 1571b 

cf  Jashub 1571" 

Jatal 

cf  Atar 317a 

Jathan 1571b 

cf  Jonathas 1731b 

Jathbath 

cf  Jotbathah. .  . .1754' 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3271 


JathnicI 1571b 

Jattir 1571b  (Masterman) 

Javan 1572a  (Roberts) 

cf  Greece 1295"  (ileidel) 

cf  Greece,  Sons  of 1305" 

Javelin 252a  (Nicol) 

Jaw 1572"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Figurative  use1 1572a 

cf  Hook 1419!l  (Easton) 

cf  Leviathan 18G8b  (Day) 

Jawbone.  .  .  .  1572"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Ramath-lehi 2528b  (Ewing) 

Jaw  Teeth 1572"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Jazer 1572"  (Ewing) 

Jaziz l.r)72b 

Jealousy l.r>72h  (Forrester) 

cf  Adultery 03"  (Margolis) 

cf  Thigh 2972b  (Easton) 

Jealousy,  Image;  of 

cf  Images 1452"  (Cobern) 

Jealousy,  Water  of 

cf  Adultery 03"  (Margolis) 

Jearim,  Mount 1572b 

cf  Chesalon 604b 

Jeatherai,  Jeaterai 1 572b 

Jebercchiah 1573" 

Jebus 1573"  (Masterman;  Orr) 

cf  Jebusite 1573a  (Orr) 

cf  Jerusalem 1595b  (Masterman) 

Jcbusi    1573a  (Orr) 

Jebusite 1573a  (Orr) 

cf  Jebus 1573"  (Masterman;  Orr) 

cf  Jerusalem 1595b  (Masterman) 

Jecamiah 

cf  Jekamiah 158Gb 

Jechiliah 1573b 

cf  Jecholiah 1573b 

Jecholiah 1573b 

Jechonias 1 573b 

Jecoliah 1573b 

cf  Jechiliah 1573b 

cf  Jecholiah 1573h 

Jeconiah 1573b 

cf  Jehoiachin 1577a  (Genung) 

Jeconias 1573b 

Jedaiah 15731'  (Roberts) 

Jeddu 1573b 

cf  Jedaiah 1573b  (Roberts) 

Jedeus 1573b 

cf  Adaiah 48b  (Beecher) 

Jediael 1573b 

Jedidah 1573b 

Jedidiah 1574a 

Jeduthun 

cf  Asaph 262b  (Millar) 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of.  .  .  ,2488b  (Sampey) 

Jeeli 1574" 

Jeelus 1574a 

Jeezer 1574a 

cf  Abiezcr 9a  (Beecher) 

Jeezerites 

cf  Abiezcr 9"  (Beenher) 


Jegar-saha-dutha 1574" 

Jehallelel,  Jehuleleel 1574" 

Jehdeiah 15741- 

Jehezkel,  Jehezckel 1574" 

cf  Ezekiel 1071"  (Moller) 

Jehiah 1574" 

Jehiel 1574"  (Roberts) 

cf  Hiereel  .  . 13S9b 

cf  Jehad 15SG1' 

cf  Jeiel 15S(ib  (Roberts) 

Jehizkiah 15741' 

Jehoadd.-ih,  Jehoadah  .  .  .1574'' 

cf  Jarah 1 509b 

Jehoadfltm 157  I1' 

Jehoaddin 

cf  Jehoaddan 157  l!j 

Jehoahaz  (of  Israel)  ....  1574h  (Caldecott) 

Chronology  of 1574b 

Idolatry  of 1575" 

cf  Jehoash  (of  Judah)  .  15751'  (Caldecott) 

cf  Joahaz 107Sb 

Low  state  of  the  king- 
dom   15741' 

Jehoahaz  (of  Judah) ....  1575"  (Genung) 

cf  Josiah 1751b  (Genung) 

cf  Shallum 2747"  (Umbachj 

Jehoash  (of  Israel) 157Gb  (Caldecott) 

Assyria  and  Damascus  1570b 

And  Elisha 157(>b 

cf  Jehoahaz  (of  Israel) .  1574b  (Caldecott ) 

cf  Jeroboam  II 1594"  (Caldecott) 

Victory  over  Amaziah  1577" 
Jelioash  (of  Judah) 1575b  (Caldecott ) 

Assassinated 1576b 

cf  Athaliah 317b  (Caldecott) 

Decline  of 1570" 

Made  king  by  Jehoiada  1575b 

Repair  of  temple 1576" 

Saved  from  his  grand- 
mother  1575b 

Jehohanan 1577"  (Roberts) 

cf  Johanan 1095b  (Roberts) 

Jehoiachin 1577b  (Genung) 

Deportation  by  Nebu- 
chadnezzar  15771' 

Imprisonment  in  Baby- 
lon   15771' 

cf  Manasseh 197S"  (Genung) 

Release  of 15771' 

Siege  and  surrender  of 

Jerusalem  under. .  .  .573"  (.Nicol) 

cf  Zedekiah 3141"  (Genung) 

Jehoiada 157s:<  (Roberts) 

cf  Jehoash  (of  Judah)  .  1575b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Joiada 1727" 

Restoration  of  temple.  157Sb 

Two  accounts  of  revo- 
lution   157S" 

Jehoiada      (of       David's 

t  hue) 1 57S" 

Jehoiakim 1579"  (Genung' 

Character.  .  .  .1579'' 


3272 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Jehoiakim — continued 

Character        of        the 
period 1579" 

Disastrous      close      of 
reign 1580" 

cf  Jeremiah 1588"  (Orelli  > 

cf  Joiakim 1727" 

cf  Jokini 1 727-' 

cf  Josiah 17."i  !'•  (Genung) 

Meaning  of  name 1579" 

Pro])het  ic  references  to.l579a 

Relation  to  Jeremiah.  1579b 

Revolt  and  punishment 

of ."21'  (Xicol) 

Sources  for  his  life  ....  1579" 
Jehoiarib 1580" 

cf  Joiarib 1727a 

Jehonadab  (Jonadab)  .  .     1580"  (Roberta 

cf  Jonathan 17301'  (Roberts) 

cf  Rechab,  Rechabites  .  2.13.-)''  (Mack) 
Jehonathan 1580b 

cf  Jonathan 1730"  (Roberts) 

Jehorain  (of  Israeli 1580'1  (Mosiman,) 

And  Ahaxiah  of  Judah  1581" 

Chronology       of       his 
reign 1580'' 

Conflicts  with  Syria. .  .  1/381" 

cf  Jehu 1584''  (Caldecott,) 

cf  Joram 17321' 

Murdered  by  Jehu. .  .  .  1581" 

Relation  to  Baalism.  .  .  1580'' 

War  with  Moab 1580'' 

Jehorain  (of  Judah)  ....  1/38 11'  (Mosiman) 

Cruel  character l.r)<Sl'j 

Disease  and  death.  .  .  .  1/3811' 

Encouragement          of 

Baalism 1581'' 

Letter  of  Elijah  to.  .  .  .1/581'' 

Loss  of  territory 1/5S11' 

Married  to  Athaliah.  .  1581" 

Revolt  of  Edom lf)Xl'> 

Jehoshabeath 1.18 11' 

cf  Jehosheba 1  583'- 

Jehoshaphat  (general  i .  .  .  1581'1  (Roberts' 
Jehoshaphat  (of  Judah)    1582"  (Mosiman) 

cf  Ahaxiali 83"  (Mosiman) 

Alliance  with  Jehorain.  1582b 

Death  and  burial l.~>83" 

Destruction  of  ship.--. .  .  1583" 

Educational  system.  .  .  1582" 

Foreign  j)olicy 1/5821' 

cf  Israel,  History  of  the 

People 1521''  (Orelli) 

cf  Josaphat 1730'' 

cf  Joshaphat 17-13a 

Judicial  organi/.at  ion  .  .  1582" 

Public,  defense 1582'' 

Reforms  of 1  582" 

Relations  with  Ahab.  .  1 582'' 

Sources  for 1582" 

Victory  over  Moah  and 
Ammon  .  .  .  .  15S2'1 


Jehoshaphat,  Valley  of.  .  1583"  (Masterman) 

cf  Berecah 439"  (Masterman) 

cf  Gehenna 1183a  (Vos) 

cf  Jerusalem 1599a  (Masterman) 

cf  Kiclron,  The  Brook.  1798°  (Masterman) 

cf  King's  Vale 1808"  (Masterman) 

Jehosheba 1583b 

cf  Jehoshabeath 1581'' 

Jehoshua 15831' 

cf  Joshua 1743"  (Roberts) 

Jehovah 

cf  God,  Xames  of 1266"  (Mack) 

cf  Keys,  Power  of 1796a  (Carver) 

cf  Lord,  The 1919"  (Carver) 

cf  Xame 2112"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Jehovah-jireh 15S3h  (Ewing) 

Jehovah-nissi 1584" 

Jehovah,  Servant  of 2739"  (Hough) 

Jehovah-shalom 1584a 

Jehovah-shammah 1584" 

Jehovah-tsidkenu 1584" 

Jehozabad 1584" 

Jeho/adak 15S4b 

cf  Josedech.  .              .  .  .1730'' 
Jehu 15S4'1  (Caldecott) 

Anointed  king 1585" 

Challenge  to  Samaria.  1585'' 

Character  of 1580" 

Destruction    of    house 
of  Ahab 15S51' 

Hosea's  verdict  on.  .  .  .  1585" 

cf  Israel,  History  of.  .  .1521b  (Orelli) 

cf  Jezebel 10751'  (Roberts) 

Massacre  of  Baalites.  .  15S51' 

cf  Menahem 2031''  (Caldecott) 

M  isl'ort  lines  of 158(5" 

Murder  of  Jezebel .  .  .  .1585" 

Murder      of      Judaean 
princes 1585'' 

Murder  of  the  kings. .  .  1585" 

Officer  of  Ahab 1584'' 

Officer  of  Jehoram.  .  .  .  1584b 

Relations    with    Jona- 
dab ben  Rechab    .  .  .1585b 

Ride  to  Jexreel 1585" 

Tribute  to  Shalmaneser 
II.  .  .  .  .158(5" 

Wars  with  Ila/ael ....  1585'' 

Jehubbah 1580" 

Jehucal 1 58(5" 

Jehud 1580" 

Jehudi 1580" 

Jehudijah 

cf  Ha-jehudijah 13211' 

Jehuel .  .  1 5S01' 

cf  Jehiel 1574"  (Roberts) 

Jehush 

cf  Jeush 1675" 

Jeiel 15861'  (Roberts) 

cf  Jehiel 1574"  (Roberts) 

cf  Jeuel 1075" 

cf  Ochielus.  .  .  .2178" 


GEXEKAL  1XDEX 


Jekabzeel 

cf  Kabzeel 1 788" 

Jekameam 15861' 

Jekamiah 158(>b 

Jekuthiel .  .1586'' 

Jcmimah 1 58Gh 

Jernnaan 1  5Sfib 

Jcrnuel 158(>b 

Jeopard,  Jeopardy 158(>b 

Jephthah 1587"  (Sehenk) 

cf  Judges,  Book  of.  .  .  .1772"  (Geden) 

cf  Vow 3058"  (LevertofT) 

Jcphunnch 1  587" 

Jerah 1  587" 

Jerahmcel 15871'  (Roberts.! 

Jerechu,  Jerechus 

cf  Jericho 1592"  (Wright ) 

Jered  .  .    1  f>S7'' 


cf  Jared 

Jeremai 

cf  Jeremias 

Jeremiah   (general) 

cf  Jeremias . 
Jeremiah  (prophet ) 


.  157011 

.1587'' 
.1591U 

L587b  (Roberts 
.1591° 

.1588"  (Orelli);  4()~, 
Davies) 

Compelled    to    go    to 
Egypt 1588b 

Conspiracy  against. .  .  .  1588" 

Depressing  message  of  1589b 

Disi)o.sition 1589" 

cf     Egyptian     Disper- 
sion   85Ga  (Xicol) 

Growth  of  prophecies.  1590a 

Idealism  of 1590" 

cf  Israel,  History  of  .  .1524"  (Orelli  i 

cf  Lamentations 1S241'  (Orelli) 

Length  of  ministry.    .  .  1588" 

cf  Ministry  in  Jerusa- 
lem   573"  (Xicol) 

Ministry    in    reign    of 
Josiah 1588" 

Xame  and  parentage.  .  1588" 

cf  Pharaoh  Hophra.  .  .2:559''  (Xicol) 

Poetic  nature  of 1590" 

Preaching  of 15891' 

Preacln'ng    and    death 
in  Egypt  .  .  .  .  1588b 

Preparation  of  the  roll.  15881' 

In  prison   1588b 

References     to     Baby- 
lonians by 1589b 

References  to  Scythians 
by 1589b 

In  reign  of  Jehoiachin  .  15881' 

In  reign  of  Jehoiakirn  .  1588:i 

In  reign  of  Zedekiah  .  .  1588'1 

With  the  remnant  after 
fall  of  Jerusalem..  .  .  15881' 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 21548"  (Reeve 

cf  Sheshach    27G51'  (Wolf. 

•Siege  of  Jerusalem  .  .  .  .  15S8b 


T.  W. 


Jeremiah  (prophet) — cimtiu  urd 
Testimony  of  book  to 

character  of 1589" 

Tradition  of  stoning. .  .  1589" 
As  a  type  of  Jesus.  .  .  .1589" 

Jeremiah,  Book  of 

Authenticity 15901' 

Composition 1590" 

Editorial  elements.     .  .  15901' 

Integrity .  .1590'' 

cf  Obadiah,  Book  of.    21731' 

cf  Palestine 22 19'- 

Relation  to  LXX 1591" 

Jeremiah,  Epistle  of 

cf  Jeremy,  Epistle  of.  .1591" 

Jeremiah,  The  Lamenta- 
tions of 
cf  Lamentations 1824" 

Jeremias 1591'' 

cf  Jeremai 15871' 

cf  Jeremiah 15871' 

Jererniel 1591" 

cf  Uriel 3040" 

Jeremoth 1591" 

cf  Hieremoth  (Apoc) .  .  1389b 
cf  Ramoth 2529" 

Jeremy 

cf  Jeremiah   (general)  .  15871' 

Jeremy,  The  Epistle  of  .  .  1591" 
Authorship,   date,   and 

aim 15911' 

Canonicity    and    posi- 
tion  1591b 

Contents 1591b 

Greek  original 1591h 

Nature  of 1591b 

Text  and  Versions    .  .    1592" 

Jeriah..  ..1592* 


(Sampey) 
(Conder) 


(T.  W.  Davies) 
(Orelli) 

(Roberts) 
(Angus) 


(Roberts) 

(T.  W.  Davies j 


.1592" 

.1592"  (Wright) 
.1592'' 
.1592" 

.1735"  (Wright) 
.  17451'  (Roberts) 
1703"  (Masterman) 
1592b 

1 592" 

.  .  .1592'' 
Recent 

.    ,2229b  (Cobern) 
As  rendezvous  for  pil- 
grims   15921' 

.leriel 15921' 

Jerijah 

cf  Jeriah 1592" 

Jerirnoth 1593"  (Roberts) 

Jerioth 1593" 

Jeroboam  I 1593"  (Mosiman  i 

Choice  of  capital  15931' 

Chosen  king 15931' 

Convocation     at     f^lie- 
chem  .  .  .  .  1 593b 


Jeribai 

Jericho 

Aqueducts  near.  .  . 

Explanation  of  fall. 

cf  Jordan  Valley. .  . 

cf  Joshua 

cf  Judah,  Territory  of. 

Later  OT  references. 

Location 

In  XT  times 

cf     Palestine, 
Exploration 


327 


GENERAL  INDEX 


(Mosiman ) 


Jeroboam  I — continued 

Ephraimite  leader.   .  .  .  1593" 
cf  Israel,  History  of  the 

People 1520''  (Orelli) 

cf  Nebat 2126h 

cf  Rehoboam 2").")  1  " 

Relations  with  Ahijali  1593b 
Relations      with      thn 

prophets 159  1 

Religious  policy 1594:i 

cf  Shishak 2777b 

Sources  for 1593" 

Jeroboam  II 159-1" 

Ceremonial  religion  .  .  .1594'' 

of  Jehoash  (of  Israel) .  1576b  (Caldecott) 

Ministry  of  Jonah  ....  1595" 

Mission  of  Amos 1595" 

cf  Shallum 2747"  (Caldecolt ) 

Success  of 159  lb 

Testimony  of  Amos.  .  .1594'' 

Jeroham 1595"  (Roberts) 

Jerome 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of..  .  .1990"  (Farmer) 

cf  Septuagint 272))'"  (Thackeray) 

Jerubbaal 1595" 

cf  Gideon 122(>>>  (Schenk) 

cf  Jerubbesheth 1595"  (Roberts i 

Jerubbesheth 1595"  (Roberts; 

cf  Jerubbaal 1595" 

of  Jeshebeab 1622" 

Jeruel 1595'' 

cf  Jezreel 1677"  (lowing) 

Jerusalem 1595"  (Masterman) 

Ancient  water  supply  .  160X" 

of  Bethesda 144b  (Masterman) 

Birket    Hammam   el 

Barrack 1610" 

Birket  Israel 1(110" 

Birkot  Mamilla 1610>> 

Birket  es  Suit  an 16101' 

Canaanite  acjueduct  160Xb 
Cistern  structure  .  .  . 1609b 
Cisterns  of  temple 

area 1610" 

Cuttings     at      Job's 

Well 1609'' 

cf  Fuller's  Field.  .  .  .  114S"  (Masterman) 

cf  Ge/er 1222"  (Masterman  ' 

cf  Gihon 122Sb  (Masterman) 

Gihon  dam 160Sb 

Hezekiah'a         acjue- 
duct   1 6()9b 

High  level  aqueduct .  161  lb 
Low  level  aqueduct. .  1611" 
Other  aqueducts. .  .  .  1609b 
Pool  of  Bethescla.  .  .1610" 

Pool  of  Siloarn 1610b 

cf  Siloam 2791"  (Masterman) 

Present  supply 161  lb 

Solomon's  Pools ....  161  la 
Twin  pools 1610" 


Jerusalem — continued 
Climate 

Cisterns 1597a 

Cold  and  heat 1597b 

Healthf  ulness 1597a 

Rainfall 1597b 

cf  Destruction  of  (5S6 

BC) 573b  (Nicol) 

Excavations 1601b 

Archaeological       so- 
cieties  1602b 

Bliss  and  Dickie. .  .  .  1602" 

Clermont-Ganneau. .  1602a 

Maudslay 1602a 

Merrill,  work  of ....  1602a 

Palestine      Explora- 
tion Fund 1602a 

Parker,  work  of ....  1602a 

Robinson,  work  of.  .  1602a 

Schick,  work  of 1602a 

Warren  and  Condor .  1602a 

Wilson,  work  of ....  1602" 
Fortification 16()2b 

of  Fortification 1136b  (Nicol) 

Gates 1603" 

Benjamin,  Gate  of.  .  16()7b 

Dung  Gate 1606b 

Ephraim,  Gate  of. .  .  1607b 

Existing  gates 1603" 

Fish  Gate 16()7a 

Fountain  Gate 1606b 

cf  Hammeah,  Tower 

of 1325b  (Masterman) 

of         Hammiphkad, 
Gate  of 1325b 

cf  Hananel,  Tower  of  1333"  (Masterman) 

Horse  Gate 1607" 

of  King's  Garden.  .  .1808"  (Masterman) 

of  King's  Pool 1808" 

of  Maktesh 1969"  (Masterman.) 

cfMiphkad,Gateof  2002b 

of  Mishneh 20661'  (Masterman) 

Names,  various 1603" 

Old  Gate 1607a 

Sheep  Gate 1607" 

cf  Sheep  Gate.  .  .  .275S" 

cf  Sur 2871b 

t"i)])er        Gate        of 
temple 1608" 

Valley  Gate 16061' 

cf  Valley  Gate..  .  .3045b  (Masterman) 

Water  Gate 1607" 

Geology 1596b 

cf  Geology  of  Pales- 
tine  1215b  (Day) 

Limestone 1597a 

Hills 1599b 

cf  Gerizim,  Mount.  .1218a  (Ewing) 

cf  Millo 2055a  (Masterman) 

cf  Olives,  Mount  of  .2186a  (Masterman) 

cf  Ophel 2196b  (Masterman) 

Zion,  fortress  of.  ...  1597b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3275 


Jerusalem — continued 

History 1613b 

cf  Adoni-zedek 58"  (Mack) 

Akra 1613b 

Alexander  the  Great,  161 6b 

Antiochian  rule 1617" 

Antiochus,      capture 
by 1617h 

Antiochus,     cruelties 
of 1617'' 

Antiochus       Epiph- 
anes lt')17:> 

Antipater  made  pro- 
curator  16181' 

Bar-cochba's  revolt.  1619b 

Besieged  by  Ilazael .  1(515" 

cf  Beth-zur 454a  (Masterman) 

cf  Bezetha 459b 

Capture  by  Syrians 
in  134  BC 1618" 

Chosroes  II  captures 
city 1620" 

Constantine's  church  1620" 

Crusades 1620b 

David's  city 1614s1 

Disruption 1614b 

Earthquake,  the  .  .  .  1615b 

Egyptian       domina- 
tion   1617" 

Eudoxia's  walls 1620a 

Expansion     in     Da- 
vid's day 1614a 

Fall  of  the  city,  70 
AD 1619b 

Hadrian's      restora- 
tions  1620* 

Hasmonean      build- 
ings   1618a 

Hebrew  conquest .  .  .  1613b 

Hellenization  of  city .  1617a 

Heracleus  enters  city  1620a 

Herod  Agrippa  I. ...  1619" 

Herod  Archelaus. .  .  .  1619a 

Herod's  buildings.  .  .  1618b 

Herod    the    Great's 
conquest 1618b 

Hezekiah's       public 
works 1615b 

Hezekiah's  reforms. .  1615b 

Jebusite  city 1614a 

Jehoash,  captured  by  1615" 

Jeremiah's  ministry.  1616" 

Jewish  revolt 1619b 

Jonathan's     restora- 
tions  1618a 

Josiah's  reforms  and 

death 1616a 

Judas,  defeat  of ....  1617b 
Judas     Maccabacus, 

death  of 1618a 

Justinian's  buildings  1620a 

cf  Praetorium 2428b  (Masterman) 


srusalem     coidinutd 
Historv- — continued 

Kharizimians l(52l)b 

Maccabean  uprising  1617'' 
Manasseh's  reign .  .  .  161f>h 
cf  Melchizedek.  .     .  .2028''  (Roberts) 
Moslem  conquest    .  .  1620" 
Nehemiah's  wall.    .  .1616b 

cf  Ophcl 2196b  (Masterman) 

Ottoman  Turks 1620>> 

Paleolithic  remains. .  16131' 
Parthian  conquest  .  .  1(518'' 

Persian  period 1616b 

Pilate,  Pontius 1619" 

Plundered  by  Arabs  1(515" 
Pompey's     conquest 

of  city 1618'' 

Reign  of  Ahaz 1(515'' 

Revival  of  city 1616b 

Roman  intervention  l(518:i 

cf  Salem 2tiG3a  (Pinches) 

Seljuk  Turks 1620b 

Shishak's  invasion  .  .  l(515a 
Siege  and  destruction 
by    Nebuchadnez- 
zar  16161' 

Siege    by    Vespasian 

and  Titus 1619'1 

cf  Siloam 2791"  (Masterman) 

Solomon's  city 1614b 

Solomon's  walls  .  .  .  .1614b 

cf  Solomon 2S24a  (Weir) 

Tell   el-Amarna   let- 
ters  1613h 

Uzziah's       fortifica- 
tions  1015" 

Literature 1621b 

Modern  city 1620b 

Christian        popula- 
tion  1620b 

Jewish  population . .  1020b 
Official  and  munici- 
pal conditions.  .  .  .1621" 

Name 1596" 

In  cuneiform 1596" 

In  Greek  and  Latin.  1596b 

In  Hebrew 1596b 

Meaning 1596b 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2226b  (Cobern) 

cf  Pentateuch 2305"  (Wiener) 

Site 1598b 

Debris        accumula- 
tions  1599b 

East  Valley 1599" 

Eastern  hill 1600a 

cf  Fuller's  Field.  .  .  .1148"  (Masterman) 

cf  Goah 124Sb 

cf  Golgotha 1275"  (Masterman) 

cf  Harsith 1341" 

cf  Mishneh 2()66b  (Masterman) 

Soil..  ..1598b 


3276 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Jerusalem — continued 
Site — cont  in' 'ell 

St.  Anne's  Valley.  .  .  1599'' 

Surrounding    moun- 
tains   159S1' 

Temple  hill.  .  1GOO'1 

cf  Temple    .          .  .2930";   2937' 
( )rr 

Tyropoeon  Valley..  .  I")!)!)'1 

West  Valley lo<)9" 

Western  hill 1599'' 

cf  Zion 315()b  (Masterrnaii  . 

Springs 

Hath  of  healing 159Sb 

cf  Bethesda 4441'  (Mastennan 

Character  of  waters  1598" 

cf  Gihon 1228b  (Mastennan  i 

Intermit  tent  nature  1598" 

Jackal's  Well 15481';   I/US'1  i Mastermain 

Job's  Well 1598" 

Outlet.  .  .  1598" 

cf  Siloam 2791"  (Mastennan) 

Spring    of    the    Al- 
mond. .  .  .  1598b 

Spring  of  Gihon  .  .  .  .  1597h 
Tombs,    remains    and 

sites 1G111' 

Absalom's  tomb.  .  .  .1012-'' 

Church      of       Holy 
Sepulchre 1013" 

Coenaculum 101. 'I1 

Egyptian  tomb 1012" 

Garden  Tomb,  the    .  1612" 

cf  Golgotha 1275"  (Masterman  i 

Great        foundation 
stones 1G121' 

Grotto  of  St.  James  1612" 

Herod's  tombs  .     ...  1612' 

Kings,  tombs  of    ...  1012" 

Robinson's  Arch. .  .  .  1613" 

cf  Sepulchre 2732" 

Simon  the  Just,  tomb 
of 1012h 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldecott ;  Orr) 

Various  tombs 1012" 

Virgin,  tomb  of 1613b 

Zaehariah,  tomb  of.  1012" 

cf  Zachariah 3129" 

Topography 1000" 

Akra 1001" 

Bezetha 1000b 

City  of  David   1601 b 

Five  hills,  the 1600h 

Josephus'        descrip- 
tion  1GOO-" 

Lower  city 1001b 

Northern  quarter.  .  .  1000b 

Upper     and     lower 
city 1600a 

Zion 1001b 

Towers 

Furnaces,  Tower  of.!007b 


Jerusalem- 

''f  Uz.  .  .30421'  (Weir) 

Valleys 

cf  Hinnom,  Valley  of  1393b  (Masterrmn  i 
cf  Jehoshaphaf ,  Val- 

If'.V  of.  .  ...  ir)S3'1  (Masterman! 

cf  Kidron,  The  Brook  1798"  (Mast.ermanj 

cf  \'ale,  Valley 3045"  (Day 

Walls 1 002'1 

Broad  wall 1G071' 

Buried  remains 1003'1 

Dam    of    the    Tyro- 
poeon   1001" 

First  wall 10041' 

Josephus'  testimony.  1604b 

cf  Millo 205.')"  (Masterman) 

Xehemiah's  account.  1GOG1' 

Present  walls 1002'' 

Robinson's  theory  .  .  1G05'1 

Second  wall 100"):i 

Date 1GOO" 

South  wall 1002b 

Third  wall 100f)b 

Jerusalem,  New 102 11' 

cf  Revelation  of  John .  2o82'' 

Jerusha 1G22" 

Jesarelah 1022" 

Jeshaiah  1()22"  (Roberts) 

cf  Osaias 2202" 

Jeshanah 1022" 

Jeshareluh 1022" 

Jeshebeal) 1022" 

cf  Jerubbesheth 1.59o'  (Roberts) 

Jesher 1 022" 

Jeshimon 1022"  (Masterman) 

cf  Judaea 17.57"  (Masterman) 

cf  Judah,  Territory  of.  1703"  (Masterman) 
Jeshishai .  .  .  .  1 0221' 

Jeshohaiah 1022b 

Jeshua  (person  .  .  1022b  (Roberts) 

cf  Jesus  Christ  .  .  .1024"  (Orr) 

cf  Joshua  (general) ....  1743" 

Jeshua  (place) 10221' 

Jeshuah ...  1G221' 

Jeshurun 1023"  (Roberts) 

cf  Jashar,  Book  of.  .  .  .1570"  (Orr) 
Jesiah 

cf  Isshiah 15421' 

Jesias 1(523" 

cf  Josias 1753b 

Jesimicl 1623" 

Jesse 1623a  (Roberts) 

cf  Abigail 9b  (Mack) 

cf  Abishai 13a  (Mack) 

cf  Boaz 491"  (Roberts) 

cf  Xahash 2109a  (W.  W.  Davics) 

cf  Root  of  Jesse 2G23b 

cf  Samuel,  Books  of. .  .  2678b  (Geden) 

Jesting 1024" 

Jesui 

cf  Ishvah .  .  .  .  151  la 


(JENEKAL  INDEX 


Jesuitos 

<;f  Lshvi 1511" 

Jesurun 

cf  Jeshurun 1623:i  (Roberts) 

Jesus  (general) 1024* 

cf  Joshua 1G221'  (Roberts) 

Jesus  Christ 1024"  (Orr 

Chronology .  .  .  .  1G2S1' 

cf  Chronology  of  XT  G441'  (Anns!  rung  i 

Date  of  baptism..  .  .  1G2S1' 

Date  of  l)irth 1G2X1- 

Date  of  crucifixion.  .  1G29" 

Length  of  ministry. .  1029" 

cf  Luke,  Gospel  of.  .  1940"  (A.  T.  Robertson  i 
Life 1G31" 

Adoration  of  Jesus.  .01"  (Edwards) 

Agony  in  garden. .  .  .  lf>59h 

Angels'  song 1G33" 

Annunciation,  the  .  .1631b 

Anointing    at    Beth- 
any   1  G55:1 

Anointing      at       Si- 
mon's house 1044" 

Appearances  of  Jesus 
after  resurrection  .  lG65b 

Arrest 1GGO";   1GGS1'  (Maclaren) 

Ascension 1066b;  G15n  (Bevan) 

Atonement G27h  (Orr) 

Baptism  of  Jesus.  .  .  1G35" 

Barabbaa  v.  Jesus . . 1GG2" 

Barren  fig  tree 1655h 

Bartimaeua  healed.  .  1G541' 

Beatitudes 1643a 

Beelzebub 1G441' 

Bethany  beyond  Jor- 
dan  16521' 

At  Bethsaida 451h  (Ewing) 

Betrayal  by  Judas  .  .lG57h;  454b  (Roes') 
cf  Judas  Iscariot. .  1766a  (Kerr) 

Birth  in  Bethlehem  .  1632b;  14701' 
cf    Chronology   of 

NT G45a  (Armstrong; 

Birth  and  infancy..  .1471'1  (Sweet) 

Blind      from      birth 
healed lG50b 

Boyhood  growth. .  .  .  1634a 

Brazen  serpent 1038" 

Bread  of  Life 1G47" 

Brethren  of  Jesus.  .  .518b  (Jacobs) 

Burial 16G4a 

Preparations  for.  . 529b  (Eager) 

At  Caesarea  Philippi  1795"  (Carver) 

Call  of  four  disciples  1639" 

Capernaum        syna- 
gogue   lG39b 

Centurion's  servant.  1643b 

Ceremonial  washings  lG47b 

Child  as  example  of 
humility lG50a 

Children  blessed .     .  .lG54a 

Chronology   of   final 
week    .  . . 1G55" 


Jesus  Christ  —conUniicil 
Life — continued 

Chronology    of    I;ist 
meal     with     disci- 
ples. . .  . . 1G58" 
Chronology    of    l,-i>). 

period  in  Galilee  1G51'1 
Circumcision.  .  .  .  1G33-'1 
Claims  of  Jesus.  .  1G411' 
Cleansing  of  temple  1G37-1;  IG")*)1- 

Cross-bearing 1G49-'1 

Cross,  scenes  at     ...  l(iG3:i 

Crucifixion,  Ihe 1GG2'1 

cf        Blood        and 

Water 4S9a  (Luering) 

Darkness  at  death.  .  l(5G3b 
Daughter    of    Jairus 

raised 1G4G:1 

David's      son      and 

lord 1G5G1' 

Deaf  man  liealed.  .  .  1G4S" 

Death  of  Jesus lGG3b 

Decapolis  retreat ,  .  .1G48:L 
Demand  for  author- 
ity   1 G5G'1 

Demon  possession  a 

reality 1G40:1 

cf  Demoniac  Pos- 
session   S27b  (Sweet  ) 

Demoniac  in  syna- 
gogue  lG39h 

Denunciation  of 
scribes  and  Phari- 
sees  1G5G:V 

Denunciation  of  un- 
belief  1044" 

Discourse    on     Last 

Things 1057" 

Discourse    in    upper 

room 1  G59:i 

Dispute  about  great- 
ness   lG49b 

Dispute  about  prece- 
dence   lG58a 

Divine  sonsbip 1641b 

Divisions 1031a 

Divorce,  teaching  on  1G53'1 

Early  disciples lG3Gb 

Early  preaching.  .  .  .1038a 

"Ecce  homo" 1002:l 

Egypt  and  Naza- 
reth  1633b 

Elisabeth  visited  .  .  .  1632a 
Entry    into    Jerusa- 
lem  lG55b 

Epileptic  child  cured  1049a 
Evil,  relation  to    ...  1043b 
Exaltation  of  Jesus.  614b  (Bevan) 
Expectations  of  the 

pious 1631a 

Fasting  and  joy  .  .  .  .  1041a 
Feast  of  Dedication  10o2b 


3278 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Jesus  Christ — con/in  in  </ 
Life — continued 

Feast  of  Jonn  5 Kill" 

Feast.       of       Taber- 
nacles  1050" 

Final  depart  ure  from 
Galilee 1051" 

Final  warning  of  the 
passion 1C).")  1 ' 

Final    week,    impor- 
tance of 1055" 

First  circuit  in  Gali- 
lee  1040" 

Fishers  of  men IGoU1' 

Five  thousand  fed  .  .  101Gb 

Forgiveness  taught . .  1050" 

Four  thousand  fed.  .104-8" 

Gadarene  demoniac.  1(5  45b 

( ialilean  ministry    .  .  IG.'N' 

Galilean    visit    after 
resurrection 1GGG" 

( Jcnealogies 1034" 

Geri/im      or      Jeru- 
salem?  103sb 

(iood  Shepherd,  the  1051" 

( Jreat  commission. .  .  1GGG1' 

Greeks  visit  .Jesus. .  .  1057" 

Guard  at  tomb 1004" 

Healing  at  Bethesda  1G411' 

Heal  ing  of  blind  man  l(')4Sb 

Healing  on  Sabbath  1042" 

Herod,  Jesus  before,  1GG11' 

cf  Herod 13781'  (Dosker) 

Herod,    Jc>sus'  refer- 
ence to 1052" 

Heroism  of  Jesus.  .  .  1G621' 

Highest  good,  the..  .1043" 

And  the  Holy  Spirit  400"  (Mullins) 

Jloly      Spirit's      de- 
scent  1035" 

Image  of  God 1451"  fF.dwards) 

Imprisonment          of 
John  the  Baptist  .  1038" 

Incompleteness 1031" 

Instructions    to    the 
Twelve 1G4C>>> 

Intolerance  rebuked  1 050:1 

Jericho,  Jesus  at. ...  Ki5  I1' 

cf  Jerusalem 101S1'  (Masterman) 

Jesus        and        His 

mother 2002>>  (Sweet) 

John  the  Baptist  .  .  .10:34'' 

Birth  of lG31b 

Preaching  of 1 G341' 

Wit  ness  of 1030" 

John's  messengers. .  .  1043b 

Joseph's  perplexity. .  1032" 

Judas,      indignation 
of 1055" 

Judas'  remorse  and 
death 1GG1" 

Judas  at  the  supper  105Sb 


Jesus  Ghrisi-^-continued 

Life — continued 

Kingdom,  coming  of .  1053b 

Language  used  by  .  .  1832a  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Law,      relation      of 

Jesus  to 1043a 

Lazarus  raised 1053" 

Leaven  of  Pharisees  1048a 

Leper  cured 1040b 

Light  of  the  world  .  .1050b 

Logia  of  Jesus 1910b  (Smith) 

Lord's  Supper lG5Sb;     1921b   (Gummey); 

1924b  (Dosker) 

cf  Passover 2256a  (N.  Isaacs) 

cf  Sacraments. .  .  .  203Ga  (Lambert) 

Love  of  Olivet 2187a  (Masterman) 

Luke's  Peraean 

source 1051a 

Magi  from  East ....  1033a 
Marriage  in  Cana. .  .  1037a 
Mary    informed    re- 
garding her  Child  1031b 
Mary  and  Martha .  .  1052b 
Massacre     of     chil- 
dren  1033b 

Matthew's   call  and 

feast 1041" 

Messiah,  Jesus  as ...  2043a  (Crichton) 
Miracle    of    coin    in 

fish's  mouth 1049b 

Miracle  of  fishes  .  .  .  1G391' 
Miracle  at  Nain.  .  .  .  1043b 
Miracle  of  wine  from 

water 1037" 

Miracles  at  death  of 

Jesus lGG3b 

Mother  and  brothers 

of  Jesus 1045" 

Murder  of  John  the 

Baptist 10  10b 

Nazareth  synagogue!  1039" 
Nicodcmus'  visit. .  .  .  1037b 
N  o  b  1  e  m  a  n '  s  son 

healed 1039" 

Obedience  of  Jesus.  21 75b  (Crannell) 

Offices  of  Jesus 2021b  (Edwards) 

Parables 

Good  Samaritan.  .  lG51b 

Great  supper 1052a 

Lost  sheep,  coin, 
and  son 1052b 

Meaning  of  par- 
ables   1645" 

Pharisee  and  pub- 
lican  1054" 

Pounds lG55a 

Teaching  by  para- 
bles   1645a 

Two  debtors 1644b 

Two  sons,  hus- 
bandmen, mar- 
riage of  prince. .  1656* 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3279 


Jesus  Christ — continued 
Life — continued 

Parables— continued 

Unjust  judge lG53b 

Unjust        steward 
and  Dives 1653a 

Unmerciful     serv- 
ant  1050" 

Virgins,    and    tal- 
ents and  sheep.  lGf>7b 

Paralytic  cured lG40b 

Passion  week IGofr1 

Paul's  teachings   re- 
garding Jesus  .  .  .  .2023a  (Edwards) 
Peraean  ministry  .  .  .  Hi")!'1 
Peraean       teachings 

and  parables lGolh 

Person  of  Jesus.  .  .  . 233S"  (Wartield) 

Peter  forgiven 1GGG" 

Peter's  denials 1GGT1 

First  confession. .  .  lG47b 

Great  confession .  .  1  G4Xb 

Mother-in-law. .  .  .  1G 10" 

cf  Pharisees 23Gla  (J.  1].  II.  Thomson) 

Pharisees  offended  .  .  lG47b 
Pharisees  v.  Jesus.  .  lG43a 
Pilate's  attitude 

toward  Jesus lGGlb 

Condemnation    of 
Jesus lGG2a 

cf  Pilate,  Pontius. 2307"  (J.  M.  Wilson) 
Plot  against  Jesus  .  .  lG57h 
Plucking     grain     on 

Sabbath 1642a 

Prayers  of  Jesus.  .  .  .2431b  (Bevan) 
Presentation      in 

temple 1G33" 

Priests,  Jesus  before  1GG01) 
Private  journey  to 

feast 1  tKiO* 

Prophetic  claims. .  .  .  1G39" 
Quirinius'  census.  .  . lG32a 
References    to    mar- 
riage and  divorce.  1090a  (Eager) 
Rejected  in  Samaria  lG51b 
Request     of     James 

and  John lG54b 

Resurrection  body  of 

Jesus 1GG4'1 

Resurrection,  events 

of 16G")« ;     G23b     (J.    Dickie . ; 

2f>G5b  (Thomas) 

Importance  of. ...  lG64b 
Retreat  for  rest  .  .  .  .  lG47b 
Retreat  to  Caesarea 

Philippi lG4Sb 

Retreat  to  Ephrairn  lG53b 
Return  promised.   .  .  lG49a 
Rich  young  man. .  .  .  lG54a 
Sabbath    controver- 
sies .  .  .  .  1641b 


Jesus  Christ — continued 
Life — continued 

Sabbath        healings: 

weakness          and 

dropsy 1052* 

cf  Sadducees 2GoSb  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson] 

Sadducees  silenced .  .  lG5Gb 
Samaritan  leper 

thankful lG53b 

Samaritan  woman  .  .  1G3S" 
Sanhedrin,       powers 

of 1GGO";     2GSSh    (L(.Vertoff) 

Second  Galilean  cir- 
cuit  1G441- 

Sermon       on       the 

Mount lG42b 

Seventy  sent  out . . . lG51b 
Shepherds'  visit ....  lG32b 

Sign  of  Jonah 1G441' 

Simeon's  joy 1633a 

Simon  of  Cyreric. .  .  .  lG62b 

Spear  thrust 16G3b 

Spiritual  body 493b  (Morro) 

Storm  calmed 1645b 

Superscription        of 

cross 1663a 

Syrophoenician 

mother 1648a 

cf  Temple 2939a  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Temple  tax,  the ....  lG49b 
Temptation  of  Jesus 

Inward  nature  of.  1635b 

Three  stages  of .  .  .  1635b 

Time  of 1635a 

Typical   character 

of 1635b 

Ten  lepers  healed.  .  .  lG53b 
Third    Galilean    cir- 
cuit   1646a 

Thomas'  doubt 1666a 

Threefold  office  of 

Jesus G21a  (Bevan) 

Time  in  Galilee lG38b 

Titles lG37a 

Tomb  of  Jesus lGG4a 

Transfiguration 1649a 

Trial 1GGO";     1G70*    (Maclaren) 

Before  Pilate 1661";    lG72a  (Maclaren); 

239Ga  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Before  Sanhedrin.  1660b 
Tribute  to  Caesar. .  .  lG56b 

True  freedom 1650b 

Tuesday   of   passion 

week 1656a 

Twelve  chosen lG42a 

Character lG42b 

Function 1642b 

Names 1642b 

Sent  out 1646" 

Visits    to    tomb    of 

Jesus 166oa 

Walking  on  the  sea .  lG47a 


32SO 


GENERAL  INDEX 


lesus  Christ  —  ciiiiliinii-il 
lAfe— continued 

Warnings      of       His 

death.  .  1049" 

Warnings  to  Peter.  .  10~>9b 
Washing      disciples' 

feet  IG.IX1' 

Water  of   Life    .  Hi.lO1' 

Wednesday    of    (in;d 

week.  .  .16-57'' 

Weeping  over  Jesus.  1  (').")")'' 

Widow's  mifes l(i")7:1 

Woman      healed      of 

issue 1040" 

Woman  taken  in  sin    IGoO'1 
Would-be  disciples.  .  104.7' 
Youthful       self-con- 
sciousness  1034h 

Youthful      visit       to 

temple 1034" 

Zacchaeus,        Jesus' 

treat ineut  of IG."^1' 

Names 

Christ 1020" 

Jesus 1020" 

Order  of  treatment..  .  .  1020" 
<  )ut\vard  sit  uat  ion  ....  1027" 

Essenes 1G2X" 

Herodian  rule 1G2X" 

Palestine  ...  1027" 

Palestine  provinces  .  10271' 
Pharisees.  .  .  1G2X" 

Political  condit  ions  .  10271' 
Sadducees  .     .  102S;i 

Scribes 1028" 

Preparation 1027:l 

cf    Apocalyptic    Lit- 
erature  101h  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson1 

cf      Eschalology      of 

OT 972"  (Orr  i 

Hebrew  and  Gentile.  1027" 

John  the  Baptist  .  .     1 70S1-  (Miller 

Birth I03ib 

Preaching  of .          .  1G341' 
delations  of  Jesus 

to 17101'  iMillen 

Limitations    of     His 

knowledge.  .  .  17921'  (Easton 

Magi.  .Ki33" 

cf  Magi 1902"  (TisdalL 

cf     Star    of    the 

Magi 2S4S"  (Maunder •• 

OT  expectations..  .  .  1027-'1 

Post-exilio     expect a- 
tions 1027" 

Virgin-birth,      objec- 
tions to 103:3'' 

cf  Mary  (Virgin)  .  200 lb  (Sweet  i 
cf  Virgin-birth..  .  .  30f>2"  (Sweet 
Problems  in  His  life. .  .  1029" 

Apocalyptic  beliefs.  .1030";  972"  (Orrj 

Apocalyptic  ideas. .  .  1030" 


Jesus  Christ  ---conlimictl 

Problems  in  His  life- -roiUinual 
Authority  of  Jesus    .330"  (Reesi 
Descent    into    lower 

world  .  .200"  (Hutchison) 
Difficult  ies  \vit  !i  mir- 
acles   1029" 

cf  God 1201  '      Heesi 

Kingdom,  present  or 
future.  ...  1030" 

Kingly  office  of 0201'  (Bevan) 

Messianic  element        10291' 
Messianic      idea       a 

growth 10291' 

Mii'aeles  alfii'med  .  .  .  1029'' 
Moral  character    .  .  .  103()'> 

Offices  of O10'>  (Bevan) 

cf  Intercession..  .  .  14X4"  (Bevan) 

Omniscience  of 1792b  (East on) 

Parables 1045";    2243"  (Schodde) 

Person  of 027b    (Orr>;     233X"    i\\':ir- 

field) 

cf  Priest,  High 21411'  (Reeve; 

Priesthood  of 01X"  (Bc>van) 

As  prophet 01X"  i  Bevan) 

Religion  of 02">"  (Orr) 

Sinlessness.  .  .  10301' 

Sinlessness  and  Mes- 

siahship 1()31" 

Sinlessness  and   Vir- 
gin-birth  1G301' 

Sources 102(i:l 

Agraphaof 1903"  (Cowan) 

Characteristics         in 

Mark.  .  .  .  19XS"  «  Farmer - 

Denial  of  existence. .  1020'' 
Extra-Christian  ....  1020'' 

Fourth  Gospel 1027";    172.T1  (Iveraeh) 

General 10201' 

( Gospels 1020" 

cf  John,  Gospel  of.  1720''  (I  verachj 
cf    Matthew,    Gos- 
pel of 2011"  (Schodde) 

cf  Logia 1910"  (Smith) 

Synoptic  Gospels.  .  .1020'';    12X4"  (Iverach) 
Teachings 

Ablution 14''  (Eagen 

Abstinence 2.V'  (Eager) 

Advent,  hopc>  of.  ...  100S" 

After  ascension 1007' 

Beatitudes 419"  (Lambert) 

Blasphemy 1041'';    IX')'-  (Rees) 

Claims  to  kingship  .  .1802"  (M'Caig; 
Comparison         with 
author   of    Ep.    of 

James 1504b  (Hayes; 

Cross   and    resurrec- 
tion, significance  of  16G7b 

Divorce 8Goa  (Caverno) 

l^thics  of,  in  Synop- 
tic Gospels 12X5b  (Iverach) 

cf  Ethics  of  Jesus.  1020"  (Stalker) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Jesus  Christ  — coiilin  uc.il. 
Teachings — con  tin  tial 

Faithfulness 1091"  (Hodge) 

Family 1096b  (Cavcrno) 

The  Finisher  .  .1111''  (\V.  I,  Walker) 

Forgiveness 1133"  (Morro) 

Gospel,      Jesus     anil 

the .    G24>>  (.).  Dickie) 

Gospels     and     Epis- 
tles  16671' 

On  guilt 13091'  (Rail) 

of  Hebrews,  Ep.  to.  202  t1'  (Edwards) 
Hoi}-  Spirit  and  blas- 
phemy   ISO"  (Rees) 

Law  in  NT 1844-  (M'Caig) 

Light,  Jesus  as 18911'  (Pratt) 

Literature 1668" 

Lordship  of  Christ  .  .  16f>7h 

Parousia 2250-  (Easton) 

Person  of  Jesus 1667b 

Resurrection 25(i3h  (Easton) 

Revelation     through 

Spirit 166?' 

Sabbath 263  lh  (Sarnpey) 

Sacrifice 2652-  (Williams) 

Salvation 2667-  (Easton) 

Self-surrender 2716''  (Pollard) 

Sermon        on        the 

Mount 2732b  (Miller) 

Shepherd,  Jesus  as.  .2764-  (Patch) 

Sin 2800"  (McConnell) 

Teacher,  Jesus  as  ...  1991b  (Farmer  .1 
Testimony      to      in- 
spiration  1476h  (Warfield) 

Use  of  parables 2243b  (Schodde) 

Use  of  "Paraclete".  22451'  (Mullins) 
As  a  thinker,  in  Synop- 
tic Gospels 1286-  (Iverach) 

Jesus  Christ,  Arrest  and 

Trial  of 16681'  (Maclaren) 

Introduction 166S1' 

Arrest  in  garden   .  .  .  16691' 

Causes 1669" 

Difficulties    of    sub- 
ject  1668b 

Jewish    and    Roman 

law 1668b 

Place 1669- 

Preparation  for 1669" 

Removal  to  city.  .  .  .1669'' 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1660-  (Orr) 

Jewish  trial 1 670- 

Bearing  on 1 670- 

Browbeating    judge, 

a 1671- 

Condemnation      for 

blasphemy 1671b 

Criminal  trials 1670- 

False  witnesses 1671" 

Jewish  law,  the 1670'' 

Mishna,  the 1670- 


Jesus  Christ,  Arrest  ;md  Trial  of  —  cnntiniirti 
Jewish  trial — continued 
Morning  session  ...  1671- 
Night  trial    .              .1670'' 
Power  of  Sanhedrin   1671fl 
Preliminary      exam- 
ination   16701' 

Summary 16711' 

cf  Law  in  NT 1S4G1'  f. M'Caig) 

Roman  trial 1672:i 

Accusations  renewed  16721' 
Acquittal  by  Pilate..  16721' 
Attempt  to  evade 

full  trial 1672b 

Barabbas  or  Jesus  .  .  1673- 
"Behold  the  man!"  .  1673" 
Final  accusation. .  .  .  1672b 
Pilate,  Jesus  before. .  1672" 
Pilate's  surrender.  .  .  1673b 
Pilate  washes  hands  1673h 

Sent  to  Herod 1673" 

Sentence  of  Jesus.  .  .  16731' 

Summary 1673h 

Sinlessness  of  Jesus  .  .  .2805b  (Dunelm) 

Son  of  God 2S26b  (Stalker) 

cf  Temple 2939-  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Jesus,  Genealogy  of 1196a  (Sweet) 

Jesus  Justus 1674"  (Rutherfurdi 

Jesus  (Sirach) 2806b  (T.  W.  Davies 

Jesus,  Wisdom  of 

cf  Sirach 2806b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Jether 1(574-  (Roberts) 

cf  Jethro 1674"  (Criehton) 

Jetheth 1674" 

Jethlah 

cf  Ithlah 1543b 

Jethro 1674-  (Crichton) 

Character  of 1 675" 

Counsel  to  Moses 1674b 

Father-in-law  of  Moses  1674b 
Relation  to  Hobab  and 

Reuel I674b 

Visit      to      Moses      in 

desert 1674b 

Jetur 1675" 

cf  Ituraea 1544-  (Ewing) 

Jeuel 1675" 

cf  Jeiel 1586b  (Roberts) 

Jeush 1675" 

Jeuz 1675" 

Jew 1675"  (Orr) 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of  .  .  1530b  (Orelli) 
cf  Languages  of  OT  .  .  .  1832-  (Weir) 

Jewel 1675b  (Orr) 

cf  Nose-jewels 2156"  (Pollard) 

cf  Ornament 22()lb  (Doolan) 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2856"  (Fletcher) 

Jewess 1675a  (Orr) 

Jewish 1675a  (Orr) 

cf  Architecture 234b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Cult,  Suppression  of  17b  (Hirsch) 
cf  Pseudo-Messiahs.  .  .629"  (Orr) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Jewry 1G751' 

cf  Judaea 1757a  (Masterman 

Jews 

cf  Jew 1675a  (Orr) 

Jezaniah lG75b 

cf  Jaazaniah lo  4Ga  (Roberts) 

Jezebel lG75b  (Roberts.) 

cf  Ahab 7Sb  (Mosimani 

cf  Baal 34oa  (Sayce) 

Character  of 1076a 

Death  of lG76a 

cf  Elijah 930b  (Farr) 

cf  Jehu l.")85a  (Caldecott) 

Persecution   of   proph- 
ets lG7Ga 

Plot  against  Naboth  of 
Jezreel lG7Ga 

In  Revelation  2  20..  .  .1G7G1' 

Jezelus lG7Gh 

Jezer 1G7G1' 

Jezerites 1G7G1' 

Jeziah 

cf  Izziah 1.1  l.~)h 

Jeziel 1G77:V 

Jezliah 

cf  Izliah 1.1  l.l1' 

Jezoar 

cf  Izhar 1.14.1b 

Jezrahiah 

cf  Izrahiah 1.1  I -I1' 

Jezreel 1G77"  (Ewing1) 

cf  Htirod,  Well  of 1340b  (Ewingj 

cf  Jerucl l«19.1b 

cf  Lo-amini 1907"  (Lees) 

Location lG77a 

cf  Naboth 210S-  (Wallace) 

Residence  of  Ahab. .  .  .  1G77:1 

Site  of  Naboth'a  vine- 
yard   1G77:1 

Jezreel,  Vale  of 

cf  Esdraelon,  Plain  of.  .993a  (Ewing) 

Jezreelite 1G771' 

Jezreelitesa 1G77'1 

Jezrielus  (llierielus) 1G771' 

Jibsam 

cf  Ibsam 144Gb 

Jidlaph 1G771' 

Jinina,  Jininah lG77b 

cf  Inmah 14G11' 

Jimnites 1677b 

cf  Inmites 1461b 

Jiphtah 

cflphtah 1491 » 

Jiphthah-el 

cf  Iphtah-el 1491"  (Swing) 

Joab lG77b     (Roberts);      13' 

(Mack);     15"    (Mar- 
golis);  795"  (Weir) 

Absalom's         relations 
with 1G78:> 

Character  of lG7Sb 

Contest  with  Aimer.  .  .lG77b 


Joab — continued 

David's      commander- 

in-chief 1677b 

Death  of 167Sa 

cf  Ge-harashim 1182a 

Murder  of  Abner 1G771' 

Murder  of  Amasa 1678a 

Joachaz 1678b 

Joacim 

cf  Joakim 1679a  (Hutchison) 

Joadanus lG78b 

Joah 1678b 

cf  Joha lG9,la 

Joahaz lG78b 

cf  Jehoahaz 1574b    (Caldecott) ;     1.175a 

(Genung) 
cf  Northern  Israel.  .  .  .152Sb  (Weir) 

Joakim  (Joacim) lG79a  (Hutchison) 

Joanan lG79a 

Joanna lG79a  (Kerr) 

Joannes lG79a 

Joarib  .  .  lG79a 

Joash 1575b    (Caldecott);     lG79a 

(Roberts);  1G791' 

Joatham lG79b 

cf  Jotham 17,14"  (Caldecott) 

Job lG79b  (Genung) 

cf  Boil 494a  (Macalister) 

Job,  Book  of lG79h  (Genung) 

Age  and  setting lG8Gb 

Contact     with     fact 

slight 16S6b 

Jehoiachin's    impris- 
onment, date 1687a 

Literature lGS7b 

Parallels  to  Job lG87b 

Prison      setting      of 

book 1687a 

Relation  to  Wisdom 

literature 1687a 

cf  Date  of  Job 314b 

Familiar  story lG80a 

cf  Josiah 17olb  (Genung) 

Lit(>rary  form lGSOa 

Characters  of  story.  1680b 

Literary  art 1GSO:1 

Literary  style 1G81" 

•Set ting  of  story lG80b 

cf  Palestine 2218a  (Condor) 

Position  in  canon lG80a 

Problem 1G851' 

Critical    views    dis- 
missed   1686a 

Job,    the    hero,    the 

answer 1686b 

Problems  of  the  age  lG86a 
Purpose  of  the  book  lG85b 
Theodicy  of  Job .  ..  .lG86a 
cf  Proverbs,  Book  of.  .2471b  (Genung) 

cf  Providence 2478a  (Tillett) 

cf  Resurrection. .         .  .2.")G3a  (Easton) 


GENERAL  JNDEX 


3283 


Job,  Book  of — continued 

The  story 1081" 

An  inner  experience  1681" 
Charges  against  Joh.lGS3b 

Debate,  the 1682a 

Demanding   a   hear- 
ing from  God ....  1683" 
Does  death  end  all?.  1083" 
Elihu's  appearance..  16841' 

End  of  debate 16S41' 

Fate  of  wicked  men  1084" 

Forgers  of  lies 1683" 

Job's  prosperity.  .  .  .1681" 
Job's   review   of   his 

life 1  6S4b 

Job's  vindicator.  .  .  .  l(')83h 
Mystery  of  suffering  10S2b 
No  Divine  umpire.  .  1083a 
Prosperity  of  evil.  .  .  lG84a 
Questions  from  na- 
ture  1685" 

Rebuke      of      the 

friends 1685" 

Restoration  of  Job .  .  1685b 
Satan's  challenge.  .  .lG81b 
Three  friends,  the..  . 1682a 
Voice  from  the  storm  1685" 
Job,  Testament  of 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture. .  lGlb  (J.  E.   IL  Thomson) 

Jobab 1 688" 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2898b  (Pinches) 
Job's  Well 

cf  Jerusalem 1598"  (Masterman) 

Jochcbed 1G8S:1 

Jod 1G8X:' 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

cf  Jot 1753b  (Eastern) 

cf  Yodh 3126" 

Joda 1688" 

Joed 1688" 

Joel 1688"  (Roberts) 

Joel,  Book  of 1688"  (J.  Robertson; 

Allegorical    interpreta- 
tion   1690" 

Connection  with  NT.  .  1695" 
Contents 

Ch  1:    drought  and 

locusts 108X1' 

Ch2:  Jeh's  jealousy 
for  His  people. .  .  .  1689" 

Date  indications 1690" 

Future  prospects 1689b 

Language  and  style .  .  .  1690b 
Literal  interpretation. .  1690" 

Literary  form 16S81' 

Outline 1688b 

Placed     among     early 

books 1 690" 

Political  arguments  re- 
garding date 1691'' 

Prophet,  the  .  .  .  .  1688b 


Joel,  Book  of — continual 
Quotations  from  earlier 

books 1691" 

cf  Reaiah..  .  .  .  .2534" 

References    to    foreign 
nations  ...  ...  1 692" 

Religious       arguments 

regarding  date 169 11' 

Resemblances  to  Amos  16901' 
Review        of        men's 

theory 1691" 

Ritualistic     arguments 

regarding  date 169 11' 

Special  expressions  in  .  1(593''' 

Joelah 1695" 

Joezer 169.1' 

Jogbehah 169.")" 

•'ogli 169.5" 

Joha 1695" 

cf  Joah 16781' 

Johanan 1695b  (Roberts) 

cf  Jehohanan 1577b  (Roberts) 

Johannes 

cf  Joannes 1679" 

Johannine Theology, The  169,")h  (L;tw) 

Antecedents 1696" 

Gentile  thought  con- 
tact  1696'1 

Gnosticism,  reaction 

from 1697" 

Odes  of  Solomon,  in- 
fluence of 16961' 

Relations    to    other 

NT  writings 1696" 

Transition  days.  .       1696" 

Writer's  personality  1696" 

Church  and  sacramcntsl704b 

Church,  the 1704b 

Lord's  Supper 1704'1 

Sacraments,  the.  .  .  .  1704!p 

Doctrine  of  God 1697" 

Life,  God  as 1697b 

Life,    types    of    the 

Divine 1697b 

Light,  God  as 1697b 

Love,  God  as 1698" 

Righteousness,    God 

as 1698" 

Spirit,  God  as 1697" 

Eschatology 1705" 

Antichrist 1705b 

Christ's  coming  per- 
petual   1 705" 

Historic  basis 1705" 

Idealism 1705" 

Judgment 1705'' 

Moral  values 1705'' 

1'arotisia,  the 1705'' 

Xature  of 1706" 

Relation  of,  to  be- 
lievers   1706" 

Resurrection..        ..17051' 


3284 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Johannine  Theology,  The — continued 

Eternal  life 1702b 

Abiding  in  God 17031' 

Children  of  God .  .  .  .1703'' 
Development  of  the 

doctrine 1703" 

Ethical  character  of  1702'" 

Greek  influence 1702b 

Metaphysical  aspect  17021' 

cf  Gospel 1281"  (Bausliii) 

cf  Gospels,  Synoptic  .  .1281''  (Iverachj 

Holy  Spirit." 1700" 

Deity  implied 1701" 

In  First  Epistle.  .  .  .1700'' 
In  Fourth  Gospel .  .  .  1700" 
Perpetuates  work  of 

Christ 1700b 

Personality  of 1701" 

As  Teacher 1700b 

Human  nature  and  its 

regeneration 1703h 

Classes  distinguished  1 704" 

World,  the 1704" 

Incarnation 1099" 

In  First  Epistle KM)1' 

Logos     doctrine     in 

Fourth  Gospel.        1699b 
Logos  idea  in  Hebrew 

literature 1099" 

Necessity  of 1700" 

Reality  of  human  life 

of  Christ 10991' 

Theme     of     Fourth 

Gospel 1099h 

cf  John,  the  Apostle. .  .  1700b  (Iverach) 
cf  John,  Epistles  of.  .  .1711"  (Law) 

cf  Light 189()b  (Pratt j 

Literature 17001' 

cf  Mediation 2025"  (Edwards) 

cf  Parousia 2251"  (Easton) 

cf  Person  of  Christ. .  .  .2342-  (Warfieldj 

cf  Propitiation 2467"  (Carver) 

cf  Salvation 2065"  (Easton) 

Sin  and  pardon 1701b 

Harmon}'  with  ot  hoi- 
NT  teaching 1702" 

Xature  of  sin 1701b 

Not  elaborated  in  Jo- 
hannine writings.  1701 b 
Propitiation    in    the 

First  Epistle 1702" 

Propitiation    in    the 
Fourth  Gospel.    .  .  1701b 

cf  Sin 279Sb  (McConuell) 

Teachings       regarding 
person  of  Christ ....  2342" 

John  (Apoc) 1706b  (Hutchison) 

cf  Asmoneans 283U  (Dosker) 

cf  Maccabaeus 1946a  (Hutchison  i 

John,  the  Apostle 1706b  (Iverach) 

cf  Antichrist  in  Epistles 

of .  .  .  .  15511  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 


John,  the  Apostle — continued 

cf  Baptism  of 390b  (Dau  i 

Character  of 1708b 

Ephesian  traditions.  .  .1708a 

Relation  to  John,  the 

presbyter 1708a 

cf  Johannine  Theology  1695b  (Lawj 
cf  John,  Epistles  of        1711"  (Law; 
cf  John,  Gospel  of.  ...  1720"  (Iverachj 
cf      Literature,      Sub- 
apostolic 1901"  (Cowan; 

cf  Machaerus 1959"  (Ewing) 

Martyrdom,        alleged 

early I707b 

Residence   in   Ephe- 

sus 1 70  7b 

cf  Patmos 2263b  (Harry) 

cf  Revelation  of  John   25821'  (Orr) 
Sources 1706b 

Acts  and  Galatians  .  17071' 

Johannine  writings. .  1706b 

NT  record 1706b 

Synoptic  Gospels.  .  .1707" 

John  the  Baptist 1708b     (Miller);          1 131" 

(W.  Evans) 
Baptism,  its  origin.    .     17091' 

Baptism  of  Jesus 1710" 

Death  of 1710b 

Disciples  of 17101' 

Dress  and  manner.  .  .  .  1709" 

Early  life 1709" 

Estimate  of,  by  Jesus.  1711" 

cf  Forerunner 1131"  (W.  Evans) 

Imprisonment 1710" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1631b;  1634b  (Orr) 

Message 1709b 

Place  and  date 1709" 

Proselyte  baptism  .  .  .  .1710" 

Relation  to  Jesus 17101' 

Severity  of 1709b 

Sources  and  parentage  1709" 
cf  Witness  to  Jesus.  .  .  1636"  (Orr  i 
John,  the  Epistles  of .  .  .  .  1711"  (Lawj 
Canonicity  and  author- 
ship  1715b;  1718" 

Critical  views 1715b 

Internal  evidence. . . 171 5b 

Traditional  views .     .1715b 

Traditional       views, 

reasonable 1716" 

Character 171  lb 

Personal 171  lh 

Style  and  diction  ,  .  .  1712b 

Themes,    theological 
and  ethical 1712" 

Traits  of  writer 1712" 

Elect  lady,  the 1719";  925"  (Law) 

First  Epistle 1711b 

cf  Johannine  Theology.  1695b  (Law) 
cf  John,  the  Apostle. .  .  1706b  (Iverachj 
cf  John,  Gospel  of .  .  .    1720a  (Iverach) 
cfLadv..  ,.!S21b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


John,  the  Epistles  of — continual 

Literature 1717'' 

Polemical  aim 1712'1 

Antinomianism 1713'1 

Cerinthus 1714' 

Docetism 1713" 

Gnosticism 1713" 

Indignation     of    the 

writer...  .  .1713b 

Presbyter  (elder  >       .  .  .  1718" 
Relations     to      Fourth 
Gospel.  .  .  171(>b 

Argument  for  unity 

of  authorship  ....  171 7;i 
Common  features. .  .  1710b 
Differences  ex- 

plained 171C)1' 

Priority  considered..  17171' 
Similar  vocabulary..  17101' 

Second  Epistle 1719' 

Structure  and  contents  1714:i 

Christian  life 171 11' 

Divine  sonship 171 11' 

Order  of  themes.  ...  171  I1 
Righteousness,    love, 

etc 171")' 

Themes  of  the  Epistles  1719'1 

Third  Epistle 171S>> 

John,  Gospel  of 1720"  (Iverach ) 

External  evidence 17201' 

Critical  work 1722" 

Ignatius 17211' 

Irenaeus 172 111 

Known  at  end  of  2d 

century 1720h 

Presbyter,  John  the  .  1721'1 

Summary 1721 '' 

Tatian 1721 

Theophilus 172 1'1 

cf  Fourth  Gospel 465b  (Orr 

ef  Gospels,  Synoptic  .  .  12811'  (Iverach  • 
Internal  evidence,  char- 
acteristics   1722:1 

Critical       presuppo- 
sitions   1722' 

Eye-witness  records  1723'' 
Importance  of  inter- 
nal test  imony  ....  1722' 

Personal  record 172.'-!1' 

Relation    to    Synop- 
tics  1722b 

Reminiscences         il- 
lustrated  1724' 

Time  covered 1723-' 

Introduction 1720' 

Date  discussed 17201' 

Scope 1 720" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1027"  (Orr.i 

cf  John,  the  Apostle.  .  170G1'  (Iverach) 
cf  John,  Epistles  of.  .    1718"  (Law) 

cf  Logos lOllb  (Alexander) 

cf  Person  of  Christ. .  .  .2342b  (Warfield) 


John,  Gospel  of  —fontinu 
Progress  and   develop 
ment  ............. 

Faith  and  unbelief.  . 
Logos  doctrine  ..... 

Messiahship  ....... 

Person  of  Jesus  ..... 

cf  Prologue.  .  .  . 

cf  Relations  to  1  John. 
cf   Teaching   on   salva 
tion  .............. 

John  Ilyrcanus,  the  Mac 
cabec  ............... 

cf  Maccabaeus  ....... 

John  Murk  .  . 

John  the  Presbyter 

cf      Literature,      Sub- 
apos  .............. 

John,  the  Revelation  of.. 
Joiada  ................ 

cf  Jehoiada  .......... 

Joiakim  ............... 

cf  Jehoiakim  ......... 

cf  Jokim  ............ 

Joiarib  ................ 

cf  Jehoiarib  ......... 

i    Join  .................. 

Jokdeam  .............. 

Jokim  ................. 

cf  Jehoiakim  ......... 

cf  Joiakim  ........... 

Jokmeam  ............. 

Jokneam  .............. 

cf  Kishon  ........... 

Jokshan  ............... 

Joktan  ................ 

Joktheel  ............... 

•   cf  Sela  .............. 

Jona 

cf  Jonah  ............ 

cf  Jonas  ............. 

Jonadab 

cf  Jehonadab  ........ 

Jonah  ................. 

cf  Fish  .............. 

cf  Jonas  ............. 

Leading  figure  in  Book 
of  Jonah  .......... 

Prophet     in     reign     of 
Jeroboam  II  ....... 

Relation   of   prayer   of 

Jonah  to  Psalms.  .  . 
cf  Ships  and  Boats 
Sign  of  repentance.  .  .  . 

cf  Jesus  Christ  ..... 

Jonah,  The  Book  of         . 
Aim  of  book  ......... 

Authorship  and  date. 
Contents  of  book  ..... 

Did  Jesus  think  it  his- 
tory? ............. 

Is  Mt  12  40  genuine? 


17241' 
172ti:' 
172")'' 
1726'' 
1725' 
24.">8b 
1710''  (Law, 


285"  (Doskerj 
1047"  (Hutchison 

1980''  (Fannen 


1901  '  i.  Cowan; 

2582b  (Orr 

1727:i 

1578"  (Roberts; 

1727" 

l.">79"  (Genungi 

1727" 

1727' 

Io80:i 

1727  ' 

1727:i 

1727'1 

Io79'  (Genung) 

1727  ' 

1727'1 

1727:i  (Ewingi 

1813:l  (Ewingj 

17271' 

17271' 

1  727'- 

2713'1  (Ewing) 

17271'    Sampey; 
1  7i50;i  (Kerr  .• 

158O  (Roberts; 
1727b  (Sampey; 
1115"  (Day) 
1730;'  (Kerrj 


1729" 

2774-'  (Xicol 

172Sa 

1044b  (Or 

172S1'  (Sanipey  • 

172Sb 

1729:l 

172Sa 

172S1- 

17281' 


32S6 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Jonah,  The  Book  of — continued 

Modern  critical  views.  1729" 

cf  Shimir 2773"  (Pinches) 

Unity 17291' 

Jonam  (Jonan) 1729b 

Jonas  (Apoc) 1729b 

Jonas 1730"  (Kerr) 

cf  Jonah 1727'1  (Sampey) 

Jonatli  Elem  Rehokim .  .  1730" 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of ....  2  187"  (Sampey) 

cf  Song 283()b  (Millar) 

Jonathan  (general) 1730"      (Roberts);       792b 

(Weir) 
Jonathan  (son  of  Rani)  .  .  17301'  (Weir) 

Character 1731" 

Commanding  at  Mich- 
mash 1730h 

Death  at  Gilhoa 1731" 

Filial  piety 1731'' 

Friendship  for  David. .  1731" 

cf  Jahzeiah 1559"  (Roberts' 

cf  Jashen 15701'  (Roberts) 

cf  Jehohanan 15771'  (Roberts) 

cf  Jehonadab l.")SO!l  (Roberts) 

cf Jehonalhan 1580b 

Leadership 1731" 

Rout  of  Philistine  gar- 
rison   1731a 

cf  Saul 2G98"  (Weir) 

Jonat  lian  (Maocabaeus) 

cf  Maccabaens 1917"    (Hutchison);     284h 

(Dosker) 
Jonathan,  Targum  of 

cf  Targum 2912h  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Jonathas 1731'1 

cf  Jathan 1571'' 

Joppa 1731b  (E wing  i 

Biblical  references  .  .  .  .1732' 

Maccabean  times 1732'1 

Modern  Jaffa 17321' 

Non-IIebrcwreferencesl731h 

Roman  and    Crusader 
times 1732" 

Sea,  the  Great 2707b  (Ewingi 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 
Jorah 1732b 

cf  Hariph 1339b 

Jorai 1732b 

Joram 1732b;  15SOb  (Mosiman) 

cf  Iladoram 1316"  (Hovey) 

cf  Jchoram 1580b  (Mosiman) 

cf  Jozabad 1755b 

Jordan 1732b  (Wright) 

cf  Arabah 21  lb  (Wright) 

Bridges 1734b 

cf  Dead  Sea 801"  (Wright ; 

Et  Ghor 1733b 

Fords  of 1734" 

cf  Ford 1127"  (Dayj 

cf  Joshua  (son  of  Nun)  1 745a  (Geden ) 

Lakeliuleh 1733" 

Lower  plain  of 1734* 


Jordan — continued 

cf  Palestine 2212"  (Conder) 

Sea  of  Galilee 1733a 

Sources 1732b 

Yarmak,  the 1733a 

Jordan,  Plains  of 8()7b  (Wright) 

Jordan  Valley 1735a  (Wright) 

Aqueducts  in 1735b 

cf  Arabah 211h  (Wright) 

Climate,      fauna     and 
flora 1736" 

cf  Dead  Sea 801"  (Wright) 

Descriptions  of 1735b 

Divisions  of 1735b 

cf    Geology    of    Pales- 
tine  1215b  (Day) 

cf  Jericho 1592"  (Wright) 

cf  Lebanon 1 804"  (Wright) 

cf  Merom,  Waters  of .  .2037"  (Wright) 

Physical  features 1735" 

Joribus 1736b 

cf  Jarib 1570" 

Jorim 1736b 

Jorkeam 1736b 

Josabad 

cf  Jozabad 1755'' 

Josabdus 1736'' 

Josaphat 173G1' 

cf  Jehoshaphat 1582"  (Mosiman) 

Josaphias 1736b 

Jose 1736b 

Josech 1 736b 

Josedech 1736b 

cf  Jehozadak 1584b 

Josedck 173Gb 

Joseph  (general) 173Gb  (S.  F.  Hunter 

cf  Barnabas 405b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Joses 1743" 

Joseph  (son  of  Jacob) .  .  .  1737"  (Kyle) 

In  Canaan 173Sb 

cf  Pentateuch 229S"  (Wiener; 

Character  of 1739b 

Critical  views 1737" 

Dreams  interpreted  .  .  .  1739" 

Exaltation  of 1739h 

Famines  in  Egypt ....  1739h 

Ideal  patriarch,  the.  .  .  1740a 

Is  story  composite  ?  .  .  1737" 

cf  Jacob 1551b  (Boyd) 

Jacob's  favoritism ....  1738b 

Literary  questions.  .  .  .1737" 

Name,  the 1737" 

Sold  into  slavery 1738b 

Story  of 1738" 

"Tale  of  Two   Broth- 
ers"  1737b 

Tomb  of 

cf  Jacob's  Well 1550"  (Ewing) 

cf  Zaphenath-paneah . .  3132a 
Joseph  of  Arimathaea.  .  .  1741b  (Kerr) 

cf  Joseph 1736b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Philip..  .  .  .23G8a  (Kerr) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


32S7 


Joseph  Barnabas 405b  (Jacobs) 

Joseph  Barsabbas 1740"  (Kerr) 

cf  Justus 17SS'>  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Joseph     the     Carpenter, 

Apocryphal  Gospel  of 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels.  199"  (Hutchison) 
Joseph,  Husband  of  Maryl74()b  (Kerr) 

After  the  nativity 17401' 

Before  the  nativity ...  1 740b 

Character  of 1741" 

Extra-canonical    refer- 
ences   1741" 

cf     James,  Brother  of 

the   Lord 1561"  (Kerr) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1632"  (Orr) 

cf  Joseph 1736b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Sequence  of  events. .  .  .1741" 

Joseph,  Prayer  of 1741''  (Easton) 

Joseph's  Dream 

cf  Astronomy 300''  (Maunder) 

cf  Joseph 1737"  (Kyle) 

Joseplms  (Apoc) 1742" 

Josephus  Flavius 1742"       (Wenley) ;       999" 

(J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

Apologetic  purpose. .  .  .  1742h 

Ascetic  in  youth 1742" 

Description  of  Jerusa- 
lem   1600"  (Masterman) 

cf  Essenes 997h  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Favored  by  Romans.  .1742" 

Governor  of  Galilee.  .  .  1712' 

Jewish  war,  the 1742" 

cf  Pharisees 2362b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Sadducees 2659"  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Triumph 3022b  (A.  W.  Evans) 

Visit  to  Rome 1742" 

Writings  of 1742b 

cf  Zealots 3133b  (Heidel) 

Joses 1743" 

cf  Brethren  of  the  Lord  518b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Joseph 1736b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Joshah 1743" 

cf  Joshaviah 1743" 

Joshaphat 1743 ' 

cf  Jehoshaphat 1581b  (Roberts) 

Joshaviah 1743" 

cf  Joshah 1743" 

Joshbekashah 1743" 

cf  Romamti-ezer 2597b 

Josheb-basshebeth 1743" 

Joshibiah 1743" 

Joshua  (general) 1743" 

Joshua  (son  of  Nun) ....  1743"       (Geden);         255" 
(Xicol) ;  446b  (Maunder) 

Allotment  of  territory 
to  tribes 1746b 

cf   Beth-horon,    Battle 

of 446b  (Maunder) 

Capture  of  Jericho. .  .  .  174f)b 

Character  of 1747b 

Conquest    of    Ai    and 
Bethel..  . ,1745b 


Joshua  (son  of  Nun) — continued 

Conquests  in  Canaan. .  1746b 

Crossing  of  Jordan. .  .  .  171")" 

Crown  for 174Sb 

Desert  wanderings    .  .  .  174  I1' 

cf  Deuteronomic  law.  .  S3S"  (Robinson) 

cf  Gibeon 1225'1  (Ewing> 

Gibeonite  stratagem. .  .  1746" 

cf  Jehoshua 1583b 

cf  Joshua 16221'  (Roberts; 

cf  Jordan 1732b  (Wright) 

cf  Joshua,  Book  of   .  .  .  1749"  (Geden,) 

Last  days  and  death  .  .  1747'1 

Leadership  of 17441' 

Life  of 17431' 

cf  Moses 20S8"  (Kyle) 

Name,  the 1743'1 

Natural      staying       of 
Jordan 1745" 

cf  Oshca 2202" 

Parallels  with  Moses.  .1747" 

Scouts  sent  to  Jericho.  1745" 

Spy 1744" 

With  Moses  at  Rephi- 
dim 1743b 

With  Moses  at  Sinai .  .  1744" 
Joshua    (son   of   Jehoza- 

dak) 1748"  (Roberts) 

Companion   of   Zerub- 
babcl 1748" 

cf  Haggai 1317"  (Robinson  i 

Trial  of 1748" 

cf  Zechariah 3135b  (Easton) 

cf  Zerubbabel 3147b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Joshua,  Book  of 1749"  (Geden) 

Allotments  to  tribes. .  .  1749b 

Ancient  versions 1751" 

Authorship 1749" 

Canonicity  of 1751" 

Chronology  of 1750" 

Compilation  of 1749b 

Conquest  of  Palestine.  1749" 

Contents 1749" 

Gaps  in  history 1750b 

cf  Hexateuch 1385a  (Wiener) 

cf  Joshua  (son  of  Nun). 1743"  (Geden. 

cf  Palestine 2212"  (Cornier) 

Purpose  and  teaching.  1751b 

Relation  to  Judges. .  .  .  1750b 

Sources 1 750" 

Josiah 1751b  (Genungi 

cf  Amon 118b  (Genungi 

Centralization  of  wor- 
ship   1753:i 

Conditions  at  corona- 
tion  1752" 

Death  at  Megiddo.  .  .  .  1753b 

cf  Deuteronomy 835b  (Robinson) 

Finding     of     the     law 
book 1752b 

Great  reformation .       .1753" 

cf  Hen  (person) 1374h 


3288 


GKXERAL  INDEX 


Josiah — contin  ucd 

of  Hezekinh 

of  Israel,  History  of. . 

of  Jehoahaz 

of  Jehoiakim 

of  Jeremiah 

of  Job,  Book  of 

Later  date  of  Deutei 

onoiny 

of  Pharaoh-necoh .... 

Sources  for 

cf  Writing 

Josias 

cf  Jesia.s 

Josibiah 

of  Joshibiah 

Josiphiah 

Jot 

of  Jod 

cf  Tittle 

Jotapata 

cf Jotbathah 

Jotbah 

of Jotbathah 

Jotbathali 

of   Wanderings   of    Is- 
rael   

Jotham 

Fable  of 

Jotham  (king  of  Judah)  . 
Building  operations  .  .  . 
Condition  of  Judah.  .  . 
Co-regent  with  Uz/iah 
Syrian  league  against . . 
War  with  Ammonites. 
Journey 

of  Day's  Journey 

cf  Sabbath  Day's  Jour- 
ney   

Joy. 

Terms  for 

Use  in  XT 

Use  in  OT 

Jozabad  

of  Joram 

Jozabdus 

Jozacar 

Jozadak 

of Jehozadak  

Jubal 

cf  Jabal 

Jubilee,  Cycle  of  the 
of    Astronomy,     Luni- 
solar  Cycle .... 

Jubilee  Year 

Character  of .  .  .  . 

Liberty  of 

Limitations  of. 

of  Release 

Restitution    of     prop- 
erty. . 


. 13S8"  (Genung) 
,  1.524°  (Orelli) 
.  I5751'  (Genung) 
. 1 579a  (Genung ) 
.  158Sa  (Orelli) 
.  16791'  (( Jenung 

.  17521' 

2360-  (Xicul 
.  1752- 

.31 11-  (Richardson 
.  1 75:;1' 
.1623" 

.  1743- 

.  i753h 

.  17.53''  (Easton ) 
,1688a 

29SS1' 

1 754- 
1754- 
1754" 
1 754" 

3064-  (Condon 

1754-  (Easton 

1754" 

1751-  (Caldecott  i 

17.1-1'' 

17.")  I1' 

1754" 

1754b 

17.->  V' 


2634-  (Porter  i 

17.").")'  (Edwards  < 

1755' 

1755'1 

1755- 

17551' 

1732" 

1 756 - 

1751V 

15841' 

1 756- 

15461'  (Robert.- 


300"  (Maunder 

1756"  (Bauri 

I756a 

L756" 

17561' 

2556b 


Jubilee  Year — continued 

cf  Sabbaths  of  Years .  .  2(534'' 

cf  Sabbatical  Year ....  2634b  (Baur) 

Was  it  really  observed  ?1757a 
Jubilees,  Book  of 173*  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

of  Seventy  Weeks 2744a  (Or) 

Jucal 

cf  Jehucal 15S6" 

Juohabar  (Ibharj 1440' 

Juda 1757- 

of  Joda KiSS- 

of  Judas 17(i5- 

cf  Juttah 17SS1' 

Judacvi 1757" 

Crusader  times 1 757'" 

of  Jeshimon 1622-  (Masterrnan) 

of  Jewry lG75h 

of  Judah 175S-  (Ewing) 

cf  Judah,  Territory  of .  1763-  (Masterman  i 


(S.  lv  Hunter) 

(Masterman) 

(Masterman) 


Limits 

ofXegeb.. 

Origin  of  name 

Judaea,  Wilderness  of 

Judah  (general) 

Judah  (patriarch)  .  .  .  . 


. 1757" 
.2130" 

.1757- 
.1757'' 
. 1757b 
.  175S-  (Ewing) 


(Masterman,) 


(S.  !•'.  Hunter) 


of  Jacob 1519-  (Boyd) 


Sou  of  Jacob. 

of  Tamar  (person)  .  . 

Tribe  of 

Judah  (tribe) 

cf  Extent  of  tribe.  .  . 
cf  Hill,  Hill  Country 
of  Judaea. . 


.175S" 
.  2907' 
.1758" 


.  1758!l  (Ewing) 
1392-  (Masterman  i 
(Masterman 


1756' 


cf  Judah,  Territory  of.  1763a  (Masterman J 
of  Xumbers,  Book  of   .2163"  (Whitelaw, 

Judah,  Kingdom  of 175S"  (Weir) 

Before  the  monarchy. .  175S'1 

Early  rulers 1  759- 

Entranoe     into     Ca- 

naan 1 75s1' 

Hebrew  tribes 175Sb 

Semites  and  Canaan- 

ites 1 7.581' 

Cf  David 790h  (Weir; 

Dual  monarchy 1760a 

Age  of  Jehoshaphat  1760a 
Athaliah's  reign  .  .  .  .  17601' 

Civil  wars 1760" 

Contrasts.        between 

Israel  and  Judah. .  1760' 
Influence  of  Isaiah.  .  1761- 
Reign  of  L'zziah  .  .  .  .  1761  ' 
Revived  fortunes .  .  1760b 

First  three  kings 1759" 

Kingdom  of  David.   1759'° 
Solomon  and  the  dis- 
ruption   1759b 

cf  Israel,  Kingdom  of.  1528b  (Weir) 

Period  of  decline 1761b 

Age  of  Hezekiah..  .  .  1761b 
Age  of  Jeremiah  .  .  1762a 
Fall  of  Assyria.  .  .  . 1762a 


GENERAL  INDKX 


3289 


Judah,  Kingdom  of — continued 

Period  of  decline — continued 

Fall  of  Judah 1762b 

Foreign  influences. .  .  1761b 
Reaction  under  Ma- 

nassch 1761b 

Reformation    of    Jo- 
sia-h, 1762" 

cf  Saul 2697''  (Weir) 

Judah,  Territory  of 1763"  (Mastennan) 

cf  Beth-horon 446"  (Mastennan  ' 

cf  Beth-zur 454"  (Masterman) 

cf  Botany 505"  (Mastennan) 

Boundaries    of     King- 
dom of  Judah 1763";  17G4b 

Chief  roads 17631' 

Divisions 1763" 

Hill  country 1763'' 

cf  Jericho 1592'  (Wright) 

cf  Jeshimon 1(522"  (Masterman) 

cf  Judaea 1757"  (Masterman) 

cf  Judah 1758"  (Ewing) 

Products 1764" 

Shepholah 1763" 

Size 17641' 

Tribe  and  its  land  ...  17G4:i 
Judah  at  the  Jordan  ....  1765" 
Judaism 

In  Arabia 219"  (Weir) 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .  1530b  (Orclli) 

cf  Paul 2276"  (A.  T.  Robertson: 

Rise  and  development  .  574b  (Xicol) 
Judas  (Apoc) 1765a  (Hutchison) 

cf  Maccabaeus 194G"  (Hutchison) 

Judas  Barsabbas 1765"  (S.  F.  Hunten 

cf  Judas,  Juda 1765"  (S.  F.  Hunter 

Judas  of  Damascus 

cf  Judas,  Juda 17(55"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Judas  of  Galilee 17G7"  (Orr) 

cf  Judas,  Juda 1765"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Quirinius 645"  (Armstrong) 

Judas  Iscariot 1765h  f  Kerr) 

Attitude      of      Fourth 
Gospel  toward 1765'' 

Betrayal  of  Jesus 1766" 

Call  by  Jesus 1765'- 

Death  of 1766* 

Foreordained 1766'' 

Gradual  degeneration.  17GGb 

Home 17651' 

Motives  of 1 7GGb 

cf    Simon    the    Cana- 

naean 2797b  (Kerr; 

Judas  Iscariot,  Gospel  of  1767a  (Orr) 
Judas  (not  Iscariot) 1765a 

cf  Judas  of  James 17G7'1  (Kerr) 

cf  Lebbaeus 1864" 

cf  Thaddaeus 29(51-  (Kerr) 

Judas  of  James 17671'  (Kerr) 

cf  Judo 17G7b 

cf  Judas,  Juda !76f>:i  (S.  F.  Hunter; 

cf  Thaddaeus 29G4"  (Korr) 


Judas,  Juda 1765"  (S.  F.  Hunter.) 

cf  Judas  Barsabbas.  .  .17(5")"  (S.  V.  Hunter; 

cf  Judas  Iscariot 17(55''  (Kerr) 

cf  Judas  of  James 17(57b  (Kerr) 

cf  Lebbaeus 1SG4" 

cf  Thaddaeus 2964"  (Kerr) 

Judas,  the  Lord's  Brother 

cf  Judo 17(57'' 

Judas  Maecabaeus 283''  (Doskery;   457"  (Dos- 

kcrj 

cf  Maccabaous 1947"  ('Hutchison) 

cf  Pharisees 23(51"  (J.  K.  H.  Thomson; 

Juddah 

cf  Juttah 17SS1'  (Masterman.) 

Jude 17(57'' 

cf  Judas,  Juda 176f>"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Judas  of  James  ....  1767b  (Kerr) 

cf  Peter,  Second  Epistle 

of 23.r)6''  (Moon-head) 

Jude,  Kpistle  of 17G71'  (Moon-head; 

Advice  to  faithful 1770" 

Brother  of  Jesus  and 
James  ? 1 7(57'' 

Characters  denounced  .  176S'1;   1771:l 

Farly  testimony 176S" 

Libertinism 1771'' 

Occasion  of  composi- 
tion  176S1' 

Parallels  with  2  Peter.  17(59'' 

People  addressed 17GSb 

Position  in  canon 1 768" 

Priority  of  2  Peter.  .  .  ,177()b 

Question  of  date 1771" 

References  to  OT  and 
extra-canonical  liter- 
ature   1770" 

Relation  to  2  Peter.  .  .  1769" 

\Vriter  of 17671' 

Judea 1771'' 

cf  Judaea 17f>7"  (Masterman,' 

Judge 1771''  (Levortoffi 

cf  Judgment  Seat 177S" 

cf  Oath 2172''  (Levertoff) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites  .  24.r)2b  (AVionor) 
Judges,  Book  of 1772"  (Goden 

Artificial  time  and 
place 1774" 

Authorship 1774 ' 

Chronology  of 1773'' 

Contents 1772b 

Early  versions 177.71 

Gideon 1773:| 

Introductions  to 1772h 

cf  Israel,  History  of  the 

People lolS"  (Orelli) 

cf  Jephthah lf>87"  (Schenk) 

cf  Joshua,  Book  of.  .  .  .  1750''  (Gedon) 

cf  Judah,  Kingdom  of   1759"  (^Weir) 

cf  Judges,  Period  of.  .  .  1775''  (Knudson  < 

cf  King  and  Kingdom    1SOO"  (Press' 

Micah  of  Ephraim         1773'' 

cf  Micah.  .  .  .2015''  (Lees) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Judges,  Book  of — continued 

Position  in  -  anon 17721' 

Purpose  and  value.  .  .  .  177.T1 

Relation  to  Ilexateueh  177  I1' 

cf  Samson,  History  of.267~>a  (Robinson) 

Sources 1774'' 

Title 1772" 

\\'ar  with  Benjamin. .  .  1773'' 

Work  of  the  Judges.  .  .  1772'' 
.Judges,  Period  of 177.")''  (Knudson  > 

Chronology 177.">'' 

Invasions 177(1'J 

cf  Judges,  Book  of.  ...  1772"  ((ieden) 

Need  of  government.  .  177C>'' 

Political  sit unt  ion 177(1'' 

Relation  to  Canaanites  177(>a 

Religious  conditions. .  .  177(1'' 

Sources 177.">b 

Theological      interpre- 
tation  1777; 

Tril)al  leaders 177(1'' 

Tribal  struggles 177(1" 

Judging,  Judgment 1777"  (Jacobs) 

cf    Jo  harm  in  e    The- 
ology   17(  ).">''  ( Law 

cf  Retribution 2.170 '  'M'Caig> 

Judgment,  Day  of 

cf  Judgment,  Last  .  .  .  .1777''  (Easton 
Judgment  Hall 1777'1  (Rutherfurd  > 

cf  Palace 2208"  (Orr) 

cf  Praetorium 212s'1  (  'Masterman  .> 

Judgment,  Last 1777''  (Easton) 

"Day  of  the  Lord"    .  .  1777'' 

cf  Eschatology  of  the 

XT '. 979b  (Vos) 

In    extra-canonical    lit- 
erature   1778" 

Nature  of  the  doct  rine  .  17771' 

cf  Parousia 2249"  (Easton) 

cf  Resurrection 2")()4b  (Easton) 

Judgment  Seat 1778a 

cf  Gabbat.hu llo()b  (Mastermati  i 

cf  Judge 1771'1  (Levertoff) 

Judicial  Blindness         .  .  .488"  (T.  Lewis) 

Judicial  Courts 72oh  (Hirsch) 

Judicial  Hardening 

cf  Harden 1338"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Judith 1778" 

cf  Palestine 2220"  (Condor) 

Judith,  Book  of 177Sb  (T.  W.  Daviesi 

cf  Apocrypha 17Sb  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Contents 177S'> 

Date  of 1779h 

Dates  suggested 17S9b 

Fact  or  fiction  ? .  .       .  .  1779a 

Historical  errors  of . .  .  .  1779:i 

Name 177Sb 

Original  language 1780a 

Place  in  Hebrew  litera- 
ture  177Sb 

Story  of  Judith 1779a 

Versions  .  .  .1 7SOb 


Juel 1780b 

Jugglery 1780b 

Juice 1780b 

Julia 1780b 

Julius 1780b 

cf  Army,  Roman 257a  (Allen) 

cf  Band,  Augustan..  .  .382b  (Nicol) 

cf  Roman  Empire 2598b  (Angus) 

.Jumping 

cf  Games 1168b  (Smith) 

Junias 1781a  (S.  F.  Hunter j 

cf  Herodion 1384a 

Juniper 1781a  (Masterman'i 

cf  Salt -wort 2f>64b  (Masterman) 

Jupiter 1781a  (Easton) 

cf      Abomination       of 

Desolation lf>a  (Hirsch) 

cf  Olympius 2188b 

cf  Zeus 3148a  (Angus) 

Jupiter  and  Mercury 

cf  Astrology 295h  (Maunder) 

cf  Jupiter 1781a  (Easton) 

cf  Mercury 2035"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Jurisdiction 1781b 

Jushab-hesed 17Slb 

cf  Shear-jashul) 27521' 

Justice 1781b  (Rail) 

Divine 1782" 

Human 17Slb 

cf  Righteousness 2591"  (McConnellj 

cf  Sanctification 2G82b  (Rail) 

Justification 1782b  (Faulkner) 

cf  Faith 10S7b  (Dunelm) 

cf  Grace 1290a  (Easton) 

cf  Imputation 1462a  (Hodge) 

Later  development.  .  .  .178Gb 

Church  fathers 1786b 

Council  of  Trent. .  .  .  1787' 

Luther 1787" 

Modern  meaning.  .  .  1787b 
Schleiermacher    and 

Ritschl 1787b 

Venture  of  faith.  .  .  .1788" 

Old  Testament 1786a 

Instances  of 1786a 

Other  XT  writings. .  .  .  17841' 

James 1785h 

cf  James,  Epistle  of.  1562a  (Hayes) 
Johannine  writings. .  1785h 
1  Peter  and  Hebrews  1785h 
Synoptic  Gospels.  .  .  1785a 

In  Paul's  writings 17821' 

Baptism  eliminated.  1784'' 
Death  and  resurrec- 
tion of  Christ.  .  .  .1783" 
Factors  in  justifica- 
tion  1784" 

Faith,  not  works. .  .  .  1783b 
Individual  in  mean- 
ing   1784b 

Paul's  experience.  .  .  1783" 

cf  Paul,  Theology  of  .2291a  (Easton) 


(JEXEKAL  IXDEX 


Justification — continued 

In  Paul's  writings — continue 
Perfection  of  Divine 

law 17821' 

Sin  universal 17X2'' 

Work  of  Christ 1783" 

cf  Romans,  Epistle  to .  .21)16' 

cf  Sacrifice,  NT 2(554" 

cf  Salvation 26G9b 

cf  Work 3105'* 

Justin  Martyr 

cf      Literature,      Sub- 
apos 19031' 

cf  Lord's  Supper 1923'' 

Justle 17881' 

Justus 17SSh 

cf  Joseph  Barsabbas  .  .  17  10" 

cf  Titus,  or  Titius  Jus- 
tus  2989b 

Juttah.  .  .  .1788h 


(Dunelm) 

(Williams) 

(Easton) 

(W.  L.  Walker 


(Cowan) 
(Gummey ) 

(S.  F.  Hunter) 
(Kerr) 

(Ruthorfurd) 
(Masterman) 


Kab 

cf  Weights  and  Mcas 

ures 

Kabzecl 

Kadesh 

cf  Kadesh-barnea 
Kadesh-barnea 

cf  Kedesh 

cf    Wanderings    of    Is- 
rael  

Kadesh  in  Galilee 

cf  Kedesh 

Kadesh  on  the  Orontes.  . 

Kadmiel 

Kadmonite 

cf  Kedcmah 

Kahtan,  Kahtanite 

Kain 

Kain  (place) 

Kallai 

Kamon 

cf  Havvoth-jair 

Kanah 

Kant 

Kaph 

cf  Alphabet 

Karaites 

Kareah 

Kariathiarius 

Karka 

Karkar,  Battle  of 

cf  Israel,  Kingdom  of  . 

cf  Jehu 

Karkor 

Karma 

Karnak 

cf  Shishak 

Kartah 

cf  Kartan 

cf  Kattath .  . 


1788" 


3079"  (Porter) 

1 7SS« 

1788b 

1788''  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

1788b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

1790b  (Ewing) 

3064"  (Conder) 

17901'  (Ewing) 

1789"  (Christie) 

1789° 

1789' (Sayce) 

1790b 

217''  (Weir) 

1789'' 

1789''  (Masterman) 

1789'' 

1789''  (Ewing) 

134.")-  (Ewing) 

1789''  (Ewing) 

1019b 

1789b 

1031'  (Richardson) 

GSf)'>  (Oko) 

1790a 

1790a 

1790" 

1529b  (\Vcir) 

1586"  (Caldccott) 

1790" 

692''  (Tisdall) 

2778-  (Xicol) 

1790" 

1790- 

1790"  (Ewingj 


Kartan    1790" 

cf  Kartah                         .  1790" 
Kattath 1790"  (Ewing) 

cf  Kartah.  .  .  .  1790" 

Kedar.  .  .  .  .  1790"  (Fulton) 

Kedernah    .  .  .  1790'' 

cf  Kadmonite 1789"  (Sayce) 

Kedemoth 1790" 

cf  Jahaz 1558"  (Ewing) 

Kedesh.  .  17901'  i  Irving i;  1791" 

cf  Kadesh-barnea 1788''  (^S.  F.  Hunter; 

cf  Kishion 1S1311 

cf  Refuge,  Cities  of.  .  . 2545b  (Ewing; 
Kedesh-naphtali 

cf  Kedesh 1790''  (living) 

cf  Xaphtati 21 181'  (Ewing) 

Keeper,  Keepers 1791" 

Kehelathah 1791" 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  3064"  (Conder) 
Keilah 1791"  (Masterman; 

David's  refuge 1791" 

cf  Garmite 1175'' 

Identification  of 1791" 

Kelaiah 1791'' 

Kelita 

cf  Kelaiah 1791h 

Kemuel 1791b 

K<>nan 17911';  141"  (Davis) 

Kenath 1791b  (Ewing) 

Kenaz 1791'' 

cf  Kenezite 1791'' 

cf  Uknaz 3032" 

Kenez 1791b 

Kenezite 1791b 

cf  Kenaz 17911' 

Kenite 

cf  Rcchab,  Rechabites  2535b  (Mack) 
Kenites 1792"  (Ewing) 

cf  Cain 539b  (Farr) 

cf  Jethro 1674b  (Crichton) 

cf  Midiari,  Midianites.  2()49b  (lowing) 
Kenizzite 

cf  Kenezite 1791b 

Kenosis 1792-  (Easton) 

cf  Accommodation.  .  .  .33"  (Sweet) 

Character  of  Divine 
knowledge 1792b 

Difficulties  of  theory.  .  1792b 

cf  Humiliation  of 
Christ 1439b 

Ignorance  not  incon- 
sistent with  omnis- 
cience  1793" 

Limitations  of  Jesus' 
knowledge 1792" 

Meaning  of  term 1792" 

cf  Parousia 2249"  (Easton) 

cf  Person  of  Christ. .  .  .2338"  (Warfield  i 

cf  Philippians,   Epistle 

to 2374-  (Hayes) 

cf  Prize 2457"  (Edwards) 

cf  Reputation 2561" 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Keras 

Kerchief 

of  Mantle.  . 
Keren-happuch 
Korioth 

of  Konot h-he/ron. 
Keriol  h-he/ron 

of  llazor 

cf  Judas  Iscariot .  . 

cf  Kerioth 

Kernel 

Keros 

cf  Xethinim 

Kesil 

cf  Astronomy .... 
Kesitah 

cf  Piece  of  Money 

Ketab 

Kettle 

Keturah .  . 


.1793" 

.  1 793" 
.  19X4" 

1793" 
.  1793"  (E\vingi 

1  793"  • 

.1793'- 

.  KH7'1  Owing) 

.  1  ?()")''  (  Kerr; 

.  1793"  i  Kwing 

.  1 70:5'' 

. I793b 

.21  39>>  (Lees) 

.300''  (Maunder 

,1793h 

.2394b 

.1793b 

.1793b 

.1793'-  (Buur; 


Key 17931'  (Pollard) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie  i 

Keys,  Power  of 1794"  (Carver 

cf  Absolution 2  I"  (Jacobs' 

Authority  or  duty'.'.  .  .1791'' 

Binding     and     loosing 
sins 179(>b 

Catholic    and     Protes- 
tant views 179I1' 

Church  and  kingdom. .  I79")b 

Civil  authority 1795" 

Examples  of  use 1790b 

Extent  of  j)o\vers 1794'' 

Figurative  meaning.  .  .1794" 

Forgiveness  of  sins.  .  .  .  179.">" 

Functions  of  holder.  .  .  179.">" 

of  Hands,  Imposition  of  1335"  (Orrl 

Importance;  of  subject    179  I ' 

Keys  and  binding 179-1'' 

Limits  of  power 1794b 

cf  Lord 1790";   1919"  (Carver 

In  Luke  11  .12 179(>" 

May  belong  to  anyone  1797:1 

Moaning   of    Matt  lieu- 
IB   19 179.")" 

Xot    official,    but    per- 
sonal  179(5b 

cf  Pet  or  (Simon; 234S1'  (Gray) 

Redemptive    power 
only 1797" 

Related  Scripture 1796" 

In  Rev  1    IS 1795'' 

In  Rev  3  7 179.")1' 

cf  Rock 2590"  (Day) 

Rock  and  stone 179ob 

Keziah 17!)7:1 

Keziz 

cf  Emek-keziz 94()b 

Keziz,  Valley  of 

cf  Emek-keziz 940'-' 

Khan 

cf  Inn..  .  .1470"  (Christie) 


Khorsabad 

cf  Nineveh 214Sb  (Pinchesj 

Kibroth-hattaavah 1797a 

Kibzaim 

cf  Jokmoam  1727" 

Kic.k  ....  1797'1 

Kid 17971' 

cf  (loal 124S1'  (Day) 

Kidnapping 1797'';  747:1  (Hirscln 

Kidneys 1  7971'  (.Easton) 

cf  Fat 1099b  (Lu(>ring) 

cf  Psychology 2  194b  (Maraisj 

cf  Heins 2").")3b  (Luoringi 

cf  Sacrifice,  ( )T  .          .  .  2(>3S;i  (Reeve) 

Kidron 179S" 

cf  Hinnom,  Valley  of.  .  1393b  (Mastermam 
cf  Jehoshaphat,  Vall<\y 

of loS3"  (Alasterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 1.199"  (Alastermani 

Ki<lron,  The  Brook 179X"  (Mastermaii ' 

Burning  ])lacefor  idols  179S1' 
David's  crossing  of. .  .  .  179S1' 

ICast  of  Jerusalem 179S" 

cf  Cehenna 11S3"  (Vos) 

cf  Jehoshaphat,  \"alley 

of 1  ")S3"  (Masterman,) 

cf  King's  Garden 1SOS"  (Mastornuin) 

cf  Siloani 2791"  (Masterman ) 

cf  Topheth 29991'  (Masterman) 

Traditional     scene     of 

judgment 179S'1 

Kilan  (Ceilan) 179S' 

Kimah 

cf  Astronomy 3()0b  (Maundorj 

Kin 

cf  Kindred 1799"  (Pollard) 

Kin,  Xext  of 

cf  Kinsman 1S10"  (Pollardj 

Kinah 179N1- 

Kindness 1799"  (W.  L.  Walker > 

cf  Gentleness 121.11'  (W.  L.  Walker > 

cf  Goodness 1279"  (W.  L.  W:ilkcD 

cf  Lovingkindness.  .  .  .  1934"  (W.  L.  Walken 

cf  Mercy 203.!''  (W.  L.  \Valken 

Kindred 1799" 

cf  Kinsman 1S10"  (Pollard) 

Kine 1799' 

cf  Cattle .")S3b  (Dayj 

cf  Cow 734"  (Day; 

King,  Christ  as 1S02"  (M'Caig) 

By  achievement 1S031' 

Christ's  acceptance1   of 

title 1X02'' 

Christ     charged     with 

being  king 1X03" 

Christ's  claim  to  king- 
ship  1X021' 

cf  Christ,  Offices  of.  .  .616b  (Bevain 
Divinely  appointed    .  .  1803b 

Eternal  rule lX04b 

Foreshadowings  (OT) .  1X02:' 
Grace,  power,  gloi'v.  .  .1X041' 


GENERAL  I.XDKX 


King,  Christ  u&— continued 
Missionary  extension      ISO  I1 

Nature    of    His    king- 
ship. .  .  iso:!1' 
Reality      of      Christ's 

kingship .  IS021 

Right  by  birth  .  ISO:1,' 

So    presented    in    Gos- 

pels.  .  .  .  .  ISO!'1' 

Spiritual  authority      . .  1S031' 
Testimony  of  Kpistlrs 

and  apocalypse ISO:}1 

Universal  dominion  .  .  .  1SOT1 

King  of  the  Jews ISO,")1 

cf  Jesus  Christ 102 -4"  (Orr) 

cf  Kins,  Christ  as ISO:*1  (M'Caig) 

KhiK,  Kingdom 179!)!l  (Press) 

Absolute  ruler 17991' 

Ancient  rulers 1 7991' 

Authority  of  king.  .  .  .  1801" 

Choice  of  king 1S001' 

Davidic  ideal.  .  .  1S011' 

D  i  sad  v  an  t  age  s  o  f 

Hebrew  system 1SOO" 

Duties  of 1801" 

Lateness  of    Hebrew 

kingdom 1799'> 

Meaning  of  term 1799b 

Period  of  Judges 1800" 

cf  Reign 2553"  (Baun 

Revenue  of 180 11' 

Royal  court 1S01'1 

Samuel  and  monarchy  1S001' 
Strength     of      Hebrew 

plan 1SOO" 

Symbols  of  royalty. .  .  .  1801" 

Theocracy 1800" 

cf  Throne 2970"  (Baur) 

Kingdom     of     God      (of 

Heaven),  The 180")"  (Stalker; 

In  apostolic  age 1807" 

Contrast  between  Jesus' 

view    and   Jewish 

conception 1800a 

Current  Jewish  views    1800" 
Danger     of     exaggera- 
tion   ISO?' 

In  early  centuries 1S071' 

Futurist  views 1S001' 

Historical     growth     of 

ideal 1807" 

cf  Hope 14191'  (East  on) 

Importance  in   Synop- 

tists 180:7' 

cf  Israel,  Kingdom  of.  152Sb  (Weir) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1030"  (Orr) 

Jesus'  attitude  toward 

Jewish  view 1800" 

Jesus'  conceptions.  .  .  .  1807" 

Jesus'  use  of  title 1800" 

"  Kingdom  of  Heaven  " 

and  "of  Clod"..         . 1805b 


1805" 

vs..  .              18071' 

iel)  1S051' 

.22  !!)••' 

ri'];islon  ) 

)logy              .  IS071' 

ion  age    .     IS071' 

2(i07'' 

Kaston) 

on       the 

he                .2734" 

Millen 

idea  ISO?1 

rael  152S1' 

(Weir 

idah  175S'< 

(Weir) 

igdom  of.  .  1528b 

(Weir) 

777b  ( 

Masterman) 

1808" 

(Masterman) 

he  Brook.  179S" 

(Masterman) 

2791'' 

(Mastermanj 

1808" 

.  .2513'1 

(Baur) 

Kingdom  of  ( lod  (of  Heaven'i, 
Meaning  and  origin  of 

term  . 

Modern  views 
In  OT  (Daniel 
cf  Parousia  . 
Place  in  the, 
In  Reformat 
cf  Salvat  ion 
cf      Sermon 
Mount,  T 
Value  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Israc 
Kingdom  of  Judah. 

cf  Israel,  King 

King's  Dale.  . 

King's  Garden 

cf  Kidron,  T 

cf  Siloani .  .  . 

King's  Mother 

cf  Queen  .  .  . 

cf  Queen  Mother 2513' 

King's  Pool 1808= 

cf  Jerusalem  Gates. .  .  .  1597' 

King's  Vale 1808" 

cf  Jehoshaphat,  Valley 

of 1583" 

cf  Salem 2003° 

Kings,  Books  of 1808' 

Character     and     posi- 
tion   1809" 

Chronological  value.  .  .  1809:I 

Compilations 1809* 

Composition 18091 

Date IS10" 

Historical  value 1809" 

Kent's  outline ISO!)1 

Prominence    of    moral 

motive 1809" 

Scope  and  contents.  .  .  ISOS1' 

Sources ISO!)1' 

Title 1SOS1' 

Kings'  Sepulchres 

cf  Jerusalem Kill1' 

Kinsfolk 

cf  Kindred 1799" 

Kinsman 1810" 

cf  Kindred 1799" 

Kinswoman 1810" 

Kir 1S101' 

In  Isaiah  22  5 1810b 

Meaning  of  word lsl()b 

Soldiers  of 1S101' 

Was  it  a  place  ? 1S101' 

Kir  of  Moab 1810>> 

cf  Kiriath-hu/oth 181  lb 

Kirama  (Cirama) 1811" 

Kir-hareseth 1811" 

Kir-heres   (Kir-hareseth)  1811" 

Kiriath 181  lb 

cf  Kiriath-jearim 181  lb 

Kiriathaim.  .  .  .1811b 


(Baur) 

;    1008"  (Masterman,) 
(Masterman) 

(Masterman) 

( Pinches i 
(Stearns; 


(Masterman) 

(Pollard) 
(Pollard) 
(Pollard) 
(Pollard) 
(Pinches) 


(Kwing) 
(Ewing) 

(Masterman 
(Kwing) 


3294 


(iENKRAL  INDEX 


.  LHj.y1  (Masterman) 
.  LSI  I1'  (Masternian) 

.  ISll1'  (.Masterman) 

.1811b 

.  INK)1'  (Ewing) 

.  LSI  I'1  (Masterman) 

.1812" 

.1545b 


Kiriat  h-arba 

cf  Hebron  .  .  . 
Kiriat  h-arim 

cf  Kiriath-jearim  . 
Kiriat  li-baal 

cf  Kiriath-jearim 
Kiriath-huzoth .... 

cf  Kir  of  Moab. . 
Kiriath-jearim  .... 

Ident  ilicat  ions. .  . 

cf Jaar 

cf  Kiriath 181 11' 

Location 1S121 

cf  Mahaneh-dan 19(>Gb  (E.wing) 

OT  references ISll1' 

Kiriath-sannah 1S121' 

cf  Kiriat  h-sepher 1S121' 

Kiriat  h-sepher 1812b 

cf  Kiriath-sannah 1812'' 

Kirjath 

cf  Kiriath ISll1' 

Kirjatliaim  (Kiriathaim)  ISll1'  (lowing) 
Ivirjath-arba 

cf  Hebron.  .  .  .  .  .  13G.V  (Masterman) 

Kirjath-baal 

cf  Kiriath-jearim ISll1'  (Masterman! 

Kiseus 1813" 

cf  Kish LS13"  (Baur) 

Kish LS13"    Baur);  3G41'  (Clay) 

cf  Kiseus 1813" 

cf  Saul 2G971'  (Weir) 

Kishi 1813" 

cf  Kushaiah LSLS1' 

Kishion 1813" 

cf  Kedesh 171H)1'  (Ewing) 

Kishon 1813"  (Ewing) 

cf  Jokneam 1727"  (Ewing) 

Kislev  (Chislcu,  Chislev) .  18131' 

cf  Calendar oil1'  (Porter) 

Kiss 1S131'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Adoration GO"  (Kdwards; 

Kisurra 3Go"  (Clay) 

Kite 1814"  (St  rat  ton- Porter) 

cf  Hawk 134.")"  (Strait  on- Port  en 

Kithlish 

cf  Chitlish G12" 

Kitron 1814" 

Kittim LS141'  (Pinches 

Assyrians  in  Cyprus..  .  1S141' 

Colonization     of     Cy- 
prus  18141' 

Cyprian  art 1SL">" 

cf  Cyprus 771"  (Tod) 

Name  for  Cyprus 18141' 

Name       for       western 
coast  lands 18141' 

Races  and  languages  of 
Cyprus 1815" 

Two  uses  of  name.  .  .  .  18141' 
Kneading 

cf  Bread.  .  .  .oil1'  (Eager i 


Knee,  Kneel  ...........  1815a  (Easton) 

cf  Attitudes  .........  329--1  (W.  W.  Da  vies  j 

cf  Salutation  ........  26G5a  (Pollard) 

cf  Thigh  ............  2972b  (Easton) 

Knife  .................  1815b  (Pollardj 

cf  Tools  .............  299Sb  (Easton) 

Knock  ................  1815b  (Miller) 

Knop  .................  LSL~)b 

cf  Temple  ...........  293()a  (Caldeeott  ;  Orr) 

Know,  Knowledge  ......  LS15b  (Orr) 

cf  Foreknowledge  .....  112S*  (Hodge) 

Koa  ..................  1S1():1 

Kohath,  Kohathites  ....  1S1G:1  (Orr) 

Kohcleth 

cf  Ec(;lesiastes  .......  S941'  (Beecher) 

Kolaiah  ...............  IS  Hi1' 

Konae  ................  ISll)1' 

Koph  .................  LSlt)b 

cf  Alphabet  ..........  1031'  (Richardson) 

Ivor 

cf  Cor  ..............  709- 

Korah  ................  lSllib  (Beecher) 

cf  Abiram  ...........  121'  (Beecher) 

Character  of  the  narra- 
tive ..............  LS17:l 

Destroyed      with      his 
company  ..........  LSHV 

cf  Hebron  (person)  .  .  .  1306b 

cf  Kore  .............  LSLS1'  (Beecher) 

Moses'  warning  .......  LS17a 

Korahites  .............  LS171'  (Beecher) 

Duties  of  ............  LS171' 

Genealogical  details  .  .  1S17'1 

cf  Kore  .............  1SLS1'  (Beecher) 

Musical  service  of.  ...  1S1S:1 

Relation  to  Psalms..  .  .181S" 

Temple  of  music  ......  18L8-1 

Korathites 

cf  Korah  ............  1816b  (Beecher) 

Kore  ..................  LSLS1'  (Beecher) 

cf  Korah  ............  LSKi1'  (Beecher  > 

cf  Korahites  .........  18171'  (Beecher) 

Korhites  ..............  lSLSb 

cf  Korah  ............  LS1G1'  (Beecher) 

Koz 

cf  Hakkoz  ...........  132  11' 

Kushaiah  .............  lS18b 

cf  Kishi 


Laadah  ...............  1819- 

Laadan 

cf  Ladan  ............  lS21a 

Laban  ................  1819-  (Boyd) 

Character  of  .........  LS19b 

cf  Jacob  .............  15501'  (Boyd) 

Name  and  genealogy  .  .  1919:i 

cf  Paddan-aram  ......  22061'  (Christie) 

Relations  with  Jacob  .  ISIS* 

Labana  ...............  1819b 

Labor  .................  1819b  (Orr) 

cf  Slavery  ...........  2815a  (Raffety) 

cf  Travail  ...........  3007a  (Macalister) 

cf  Work  .  .  .  .3105b  (W.  L.  Walker) 


GENERAL  IXDEX 


3295 


Laccunus IS  I!)1' 

Lace 1S191' 

Lacedaemonians 1819b  (Hutchison) 

of  Arius.  .                    .  .2-12" 
cf  Maccabaeus,  Macca- 
bees  19-17"  (Hutchison  > 

cf  Sparta,  Spartans.  .  . 2839b  (Or) 

Lachish 1S20"  (Porter) 

Destruction  of 1S201' 

Excavation  of 1S20-'1 

History  of 1S201' 

Location 1820" 

cf  Palestine 2212"  (Cornier; 

cf     Palestine,      Recent 

Exploration 222.r>1>  (Cobern) 

Lack 1821"  (Gerberding) 

Lacunus 

cf  Laccunus 1S191' 

Lad 1821" 

Ladan 1821" 

cf  Libni ISM'' 

Ladanum 1821" 

cf  Myrrh 2102"  (Masterman) 

Ladder 

cf  Siege 27SG"  (Xicol) 

Ladder  of  Tyre 1821"  ( Porter J 

cf  Misrephoth-maim .  .2007"  (Porter) 

cf  Phoenicia 238Gb  (Porter) 

Lade,  Lading 1821b 

Lady 1821b 

cf  Cyria 773b 

cf  Elect  Lady 925"  (Law) 

cf  John,  Epistles  of .  .  .  1711"  (La\vj 

Lael 1821b 

Lagash 304b  (Clay) 

Lahad 1821b 

Lahai-roi 

cf  Becr-lahai-roi 424"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Lahmam 1821b 

Lahnias 

cf  Lahmam 18211' 

Lahmi 1821b 

cf  Elhanan 928"  (Sainpoy) 

cf  Goliath 127(5b  (Reeve) 

Laish 1821b 

cf  Dan 781"  (Ewingi 

Laishah 1822" 

Lake 1822"  (Day) 

cf  Pool 2419b  (Day) 

Lake  of  Fire 1822"  (Vos) 

Lake  of  Gennesaret 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of 11(3.5"  (Ewing; 

Lakkum 1822b 

Lama 

cf  Eloi,  Eloi,  Larna  Sa- 

bachthani 939"  (Clippinger) 

Lamb 1822b  (Day) 

cf  Sheep 2756b  (Day) 

Lamb  of  God 1822b  (Bevan) 

In  the  apocalypse 1823a 

Historical         interpre- 
tations. .  . .1823a 


Lamb  of  God—conlii.  •  // '/ 

Origin  of  term 1822b 

Sacrificial  sense 1822b 

In  Second  Isaiah 1823" 

Lame 1823b  (Macalistor) 

cf  Cripple 74  8b 

Lameeh 1823b  (Baun 

cf  Polygamy  of 1095"  (Cavernoj 

Lamedh 1824a 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

Lament 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar.) 

Lamentation 

cf  Burial 529"  (Eager) 

Lamentations,  Book  of.  .  1824"  (Orelli) 

Author  of 1824b 

Contents 1824" 

Critical  view 1824b 

The  five  elegies 1824" 

Name 1824" 

Position  in  Canon.  .  .  .  1825a 

Lamp,  Lampstand 1825"  (Porter) 

cf  Candlestick,  Golden  553"  (Orr) 

Figurative  use 1825b 

Forms  and  history.  .  .  .  1825b 

Funeral  use  of 182G" 

Inscriptions 1826" 

Material  and  design. .  .  1825b 

cf  Oil 2181b  (Patch) 

cf  Torch 2999b 

Use  of  term 1825" 

Larnpsacus 

cf  Sampsames 2G75" 

Lance,  Lancer,  Lancet 

cf  Armor,  Arms 251"  (Xicol) 

Land 182Gb  (Day) 

cf  Country 724a  (Day) 

cf  Earth SS7a  (Day) 

Land-crocodile 182Gb  (Day) 

cf  Chameleon 592a  (Day) 

cf  Lizard 190G"  (Day) 

Land  Laws 

cf  Agrarian  Laws 74"  (Wiener) 

Landmark 182Gb 

Lane 182Gb 

Language  of  the  NT 182G1'  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Aramaic  Language.. 222"  (.1.  E.  II.  Thomson) 
Character  of  the  koine  1829b 
Comparison  of  Biblical 

and  common  words.  1830" 
Evidence   from    gram- 
mar  1829a 

Evidence  from  inscrip- 
tions  1828b 

Evidence  from  modern 

grammar 1829" 

Evidence  from  ostraca  1828b 
Evidence  from  the  pa- 
pyri  1828a 

The  koine  of  the  first 

century 1827a 

cf  Latin 1840b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 


32*  )G 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Language  of  the  NT — continual 

Literary    elements    in 
NT 1830'- 

The  newer  view 1827" 

Old  view  of  a  Divine 
speech .  .  . . 1826b 

cf  Papyrus 2238h  (Goodspee.l  i 

Peculiarities  of  writers.  1S311' 

Recent  workers  in    .  .  .  1S271' 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity 2G01"  (Angus 

Semitic  influence 1831" 

cf  Septuagint 2722"  (Thackeray. 

Speech  of  Jesus 1832" 

Languages  of  the  OT. .  .  .  1832"  (Weir) 

Absence  of  tenses 1S341' 

Adjectives  few 18351' 

Aramaic 183,5'' 

Aramaic    and    Hebrew 
compared 183ol> 

Concrete  nature  of  lie- 
brew 1836" 

Construct      state      of 
noun 183")' 

Derived  stems 18341' 

Differences  of  age  and 
style 1833h 

Ease  of  translation. .  .  .  1836" 

Foreign  influences ....  18331' 

Guttural  sounds 1834- 

Hebrew  is  a  Canaanite 
language 1833l) 

Hebrew,  character ist  ics 
of 1834" 

Hebrew,  death  of 1834' 

Hebrew,  history  of .  .  .  1833" 

Hebrew  of  the  OT.  .  .  .1833" 

Hebrew  remains 1833" 

Hebrew,      a      younger 
speech 1834" 

Internal  inflexion 183o" 

cf  Lamentations,  Book 

of 1836";    1824"   (Orellij 

Literary       characteris- 
tics  1836" 

More  sounds  than  let- 
ters  1834" 

Name  of  formation. .  .  .  1834l> 

Name  Hebrew 18321' 

Oldest  form  of  Hebrew  1833" 

Picturesqueness  of  He- 
brew   1836" 

Pronouns 1834b 

Prose  and  poetry 1833b 

Semitic  groups 1832b 

Semitic  languages 1832b 

Syllables 1834b 

Syntax  of  verb 1S351 

cf  Text  of  the  OT 2957b  (Weir) 

Triliteral  roots 1834b 

Uniformity  of  Hebrew. 1833" 

Vowels  and  consonant  si  834a 


Lantern 18361' 

cf  Torch 2999'1 

Laodicea 183(3b  (Banks; 

Laodiceans,  Epistle  to  the  1S3G1'  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Apocryphal  Epistles  194b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Evidence           favoring 
Ephesians 1S37'1 

.Jewish     character     of 
church  in  Ephcsus.  .  1838" 

Laodicea  displaced  by 
Ephesus 1838b 

Marcion's  opinion  .  .  .  .  18371' 

Paul's  reference  to.  ...  1837" 

Purpose  of  the  Epistle  1830" 

Similarity  of  Ephesians 
and  Colossians .....  1 838" 

Spurious  Epistle 1837" 

Testimony     in     Ephe- 
sians   1837b 

Lap 1839"  (Luering) 

Lapis  Assius 2S9h 

Lappidoth 1S391'  (Lees 

Lapwing 1839b 

cf  Hoopoe 1419"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Larsa 3G.>  (Clayj 

Lasciviousness 1839b  (Raffety ) 

Lasca 1840" 

cf  Fair  Havens 1087b 

Lasha 1840"  (Ewingj 

Lassharon IS  10" 

cf  Sharon 27f)0b  (Ewing) 

Last  Day 799"  (On- 
Last  Days 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT.  972"  (Orr) 
Last  Time,  Times 1840"  (Vos. 

cf  Eschatology  of  NT.  979b  (Vos) 

Lasthenes 1840b  (Hutchison) 

Latehet 1840b 

Latin 1840b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Language  of  the  NT  182Gb  (A.   T.   Robertson) 

cf    Latin  Version,  The 

Old 1841"  (Xicol) 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity 2601"  (Angus) 

cf  Vulgate 30.J81'  (Angus) 

Latin  Version,  The  Old.  .1841"  (Xicol) 

Cyprian's  Bible 1842" 

Individual      character- 
istics  1843" 

Later  Italic  MSS 1843" 

Need  of  translation  .  .  .  1841b 

North   African   use   of 
Latin 1842* 

Old  Lai  in  MSS 1842b 

Possible  Eastern  origin!842b 

Prevalence  of  Greek. .  .  1842" 

Tertullian's  Bible 1842b 

Value  for  textual  criti- 
cism   1843" 

Versions  before  Jeromel841b 

cf  Vulgate 3058b  (Angus) 

Work  of  Jerome .  .      .  .  1841b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Latter  Days 
cf   Eschatology  of   the 

OT 972"  (Orri 

Lattice 

cf  House.  .  ...  1434b  (A.  C.  Dickio 

Laud .  .  1843h 

Laughing-stock 1843b 

cf  Mock 20721'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Laughter 184:3''  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Launch 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  .  .2774"  (Xicol) 

Laver 1843b  (Caldeeott ) 

In  the  XT 1844" 

In  the  tabernacle 18  13'' 

cf  Tabernacle 2881V  (Calderoit;  Orr) 

In  the  temple 1844" 

cf  Temple 293  t"  (Caldecott;  Orr. 

cf  Undersetter 3037" 

Law,  Judicial 1858"  (Ilirsch) 

cf  Roman  Law 2Gllb  (Allen) 

cf  Sanhedrin 26SS1'  (Leverto(T) 

Law  in  the  XT 1844"  (M'Caig) 

Definition  of  law 181  V' 

cf  Divorce SO.")"  (Caverno) 

cf  Forgiveness 11321'  (Morro) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1659b  (Orr) 

Law  in  the  Acts 1847" 

Peter  and  Paul 1847b 

Roman  law 1847b 

Stephen's  attitude .  .  1847" 
Law  in  the  Epistles.  .  .1848" 
Adam  and  Christ.  .  .1848'' 
Bondage          and 

freedom 1850" 

Condemnation         of 

law 1848" 

In    Corinthians    and 

Philippians 1850b 

Effects  of  law 184Sb 

In  Galatians 1850" 

In  Hebrews 1851" 

In  James 1851b 

Law   and   righteous- 
ness  1848b 

Liberty  from  the  law  18491' 
In    Peter  and  John, 

Epistles  of 1852" 

Purity  of  the  law  .  .  .  1849" 
Romans,  Ep.  to  ....  1848" 
Law  in  the  Gospels.  .  .  1844b 
Adultery        an  d 

divorce 1845" 

Answers  of  Jesus  .  .  .  1840" 
Christ's  fulfilment  of 

the  law 1847" 

Christ  and  tradition. 1845" 
Death  of  Christ.  .  .  . 1846b 

Divisions 1844b 

In  Fourth  Gospel. .  .  1846" 

In  life  of  Jesus 1846" 

Love  and  hatred. .  .  .  1845b 
Murder ...  .  .  1845" 


Law  in  the  NT      conlninal 

Law  in  (lie  Gospels — con  it  mini 

Oaths 1815" 

cf  Punishments 25()4b  (Ilirsch) 

Retaliation     .  .  .  1845b 

Sabbalh.  .  .  .  18151' 

Sermon  on  Mount  .  .  18441' 
Teaching  of  Chris). .  I8l4b 
cf  Wrath.  .  .  .3113"  (W.  Evans; 

Law  in  the  OT 1852"  (Rule) 

Abolition  of  the  law.  .  .  1857b 
Book  of  Covenant  .  .  . . 185  1 ' 


Ceremonies 


1 85 


Character  and  design. .  18551' 
Comparison  with  code 

of  Hammurabi 1854" 

cf  Covenant,  Book  of.729b  (Mack; 

Critical  views 1853" 

Dates  and  codes 1853" 

Deuteronomic  law ....  185  ib 

Final  compilation 1855b 

Groups  of  laws 1853b 

High  honor  accorded .  .2705b  (Hirsch) 
Later  interpolations.  .  .  1853b 

Law  of  holiness 1855" 

Levitical  ritual 1857" 

Limits  of  discussion  .  .  .  1852' 

Marriage 185(5" 

Moses 2089b;  2090"  (Kyle.) 

cf  Pentateuch 2298"  (Wiener) 

Punishments 1856" 

Sabbaths  and  feasts.  .  .  1856b 
Sacrifices,  origin  of. .  .  .1856b 
Servants  and  poor.  .  .  .1856" 

Terms  used 1852" 

cf  Torah 258 lb  (Warfield) 

Value  of  the  law 1857b 

Written  law 1852b 

Law,  Roman 261  lb  (Allen) 

Lawful 1858"  (W.  Evans) 

Lawgiver 1858b  (Morro,) 

Lawless 1859"  (W.  Evans) 

Lawyer 1859"  (Ilirsch) 

Adviser 1859b 

Schools  of  law 1859" 

cf  Scribes 270 4b  (Ilirsch) 

Students  of  the  law.  .  .1859" 

Teacher  of  law 1859b 

Lay,  Laying 1859b  (Breslich) 

Lazarus 18(50"  (Trever) 

Critical    views    of    the 

miracle I8601' 

Raising  of 1860" 

Leach 

cf  Horseleach 1424"  (Day) 

Lead 1861"  (Patch) 

cf  Metals 2044"  (Patch) 

cf  Refiner 2545"  (Patch) 

Leaf,  Leaves 1861b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

League 

cf  Confederacy 699"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Leah 186 lb  (Baur) 


3298 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Leannotli 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of. .  .  .2487"  (Sampey) 
Leaping 

cf  ('James 1168b  (Smith) 

Leasing 1862-  (W.  Evans 

Leather 

cf  Skin 281 3b  (Lueringl 

cf  Tanner 2009"  (Patch) 

Leaven 1862a  (Eager) 

cf  Bread oil1'  (Eager) 

cf  Meals,  Meal-time..  .2014*  (Eager) 

Lebana,  Lel)anali 18IV21' 

Lebanon 1862''  (Wright.) 

Anti-Lebanon 1864" 

cf  Arabah 21  lh  (Wright) 

General  features 1SG21' 

Geology  of 1S631' 

History 1864" 

cf  Jordan,  Valley  of .  .  .  1735"  (Wright) 

Name 1862b 

Hirers  of 1863" 

Scenery 1863!| 

cf  Syria 2881-  (Christie) 

cf  Tower  of  Lebanon.  .3000''  (Christie) 

View  from 1863" 

Lebaoth 1864" 

Lebbaeus 1864;l 

cf  Judas 176.")-  (S.  V.  Hunter) 

cf  Thaddaeus 2964"  (Kerr) 

Lebonah 1864" 

Lecah ISO  I1' 

Ledge 1864'' 

cf  Altar KM-  (Wiener) 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldeeott;  Orr) 

Locks 1S041-;  1 122"  (Eager) 

Lees 

cf  Wine,  Wine  Press  .  .3086"  (East on) 
Left 1864h  (Luering. 

cf  Left  handed 186.")"  (Luering) 

Lefthanded 1865a  (Luering) 

cf  Left 1864b  (Luering) 

Leg 1865"  (Luering) 

cf  Loins 1917"  (Luering) 

cf  Thigh 29721'  (East  on) 

Legendary       Apocryphal 

Gospels .  .198-  (Hutchison) 

Legions,  Roman 257b  (Allen) 

Legislation  of  Sanctity 

cf  Astronomy 300h  (Maunder) 

Legumes 1122"  (Eager) 

Lehabim ISO.?' 

cf  Lubim 1934b 

Lehi 

cf  Ramath-lehi 25281'  (Ewing) 

Lemuel 1865b  (Gemmg ) 

cf  Proverbs,  Book  of.  .2473b  (Genung) 
Lond,  Loan  ...  ...  1865b  (Williams) 

Lentils 1866"  (Masterman);  1122" 

(Eager) 

Leopard 1866b  (Day) 

cf  Beth-nimrah 450b  (Wright) 

cf  Nimrah.  .  .  .2147a  (Ewing) 


Leopard — conli/ni«l 

cf  Ximrim 2147tt  (Ewing) 

cf  Spot,  Spotted 2846b  (Macalister) 

Leper 1867-  (Macalister) 

cf  Uncleanness 3036b  (Williams) 

Leprosy 1867-  (Macalister) 

Description 1867" 

cf  Freckled  Spot 11  1.7' 

In  garments 1867b 

In  houses 1868" 

Law  regarding 1868" 

Localities 18671' 

Xatureof 1867'' 

In  XT 1867'- 

In  OT ISO?' 

cf  Purity 2">07'>  (Caverno) 

cf  Spot,  Spotted 2846b  (Macalister) 

cf  Tetter 29f>0" 

Leshem 

cf  Laish 1821b 

Lessau 1868" 

cf  Adasa 54b 

Let 1868" 

Lethech l86Xb 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Letter,  Letters 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

cf  Epistle 966"  (Pratt) 

cf  Palestine 22161'  (Cornier) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2228b  (Cobern) 

cf  Tell  el-Amarna 2927''  (Kyle) 

cf  Writing 311  1-  (Richardson) 

Letushim 186,sb 

cf  Leummim 18681' 

Leummim 1868b 

cf  Letushim 1868'- 

Levi  general) 186sh 

cf  Matthew 2009"  (Schodde) 

Levi  (patriarch) 18681'  (lowing) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites  .24 46b  (Wiener) 
Leviatlian lS(iSb  (Day 

cf  Astronomy 3()()b  (Maunder) 

cf  Jaw " l.">72"  (M.  0.  Evans) 

cf  Job,  Book  of 1685-  (Genung) 

cf  Reptile 2")61" 

cf  Scales 2701-  (Luering) 

Levirate  Law 

cf  Marriage 1996b  (Eager) 

Levirate  Marriage f>26"  (Hirsch) 

cf  Husband's  Brother.  1442b  (Crannell) 

Levis 1869" 

Levites 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2446b  (Wiener) 
Levitical  Cities 1869"  (Wiener) 

cf  Agrarian  Laws 74-  (Wiener) 

Doubts   as    to    their 
existence 1869b 

Evidence  favorable  .  .  .  1869b 

Ezekicl's  plan 18691' 

Legal  provisions 1869" 

cf  Priests  and  Levites .  2446b  (Wiener) 


(1EXERAL   INDEX 


3299 


Leviticus 1X70"  (Moller) 

Arguments      for      late 

date 1877" 

Arguments  for  Mosaic 

date 1X78" 

cf  Atonement,  D;ty  of.  32  I1'  (Mollor) 

Ceremonial  laws 1X7.">" 

Character  of 1X70" 

Critical  extravagances  1X72" 

Critical  views 1X71" 

Defense    of    its    integ- 
rity  1X74" 

Dissent    from     critical 

opinion 1S.'!7:1 

cf  Exodus 1  Of)*)1'  (Moller) 

of  Ezekiel 1071"  (Moller) 

of  Genesis 1201"  (Mollor) 

Interpretation  of  Chris- 
tianity   1SSO;1 

Law  of  Holiness,  the.  .1X70'' 
Law,  imperfection  of.  .1880'' 

cf  Moses 2089'-  (Kyle) 

Name 1X70" 

Origin 1X77" 

Plan  of  the  book !X73b 

Reasons  for  analysis.  .  1X72" 
Rejection  of  critical 

views 1X7  lb 

Significance  of lX79b 

Structure lX71b 

cf  War 30G9b  (Nicol) 

Lewd,  Lewdness 1XX01'  (RafTety) 

Libanus 

of  Lebanon 1XG21'  (Wright ) 

Libation 

of  Sacrifice,  OT 2G3X"  (Reeve) 

Liberal,  Liberality,  Liber- 
ally  1XX1"  (Gcrberding) 

Libertines 1XX1"  CS.  V.  Hunter) 

cf  Rome 2G21b  (Allen) 

Suggestions  regarding.  1XX1:1 

Synagogue  of 1X81" 

Liberty 18811'  (Orr) 

Libnah lXXlh  (Masterman) 

of    Wanderings    of    Is- 
rael  30G4"  (Condor) 

Libni 1 XX2" 

cf  Ladan 1X21" 

Libnites 

cf  Libni 1XS2" 

Libraries 1XX2"  (Richardson) 

Amarna  collection  ....  1XX31' 

Assyrian  libraries 1SS01' 

cf  Book 49r>>'  (Richardson) 

Bookcases    and    build- 
ings  IXXti" 

Book  cities 1884" 

Dead,  libraries  for  the  1882b 
Early  literary  activity  1SS411 
Egyptian  age.  .  .  .  lS83a 

Exodus,  age  of  the. .  .  1X831' 
Judges,  age  of.  .  .  .  1X84" 


Libraries — conlinucil 

Memory  libraries 1X82'' 

Mesopotamia!!  age. .  .  .  1882" 
Mythological        collec- 
tions  1XX2'1 

XT  times.  ...  .  .  18S.r>b 

cf  Nineveh,  Library  of  21."J1L  (Savcoj 
Xon-biblical      religious 

libraries 18X2'1 

Palestine    at     the    eon- 
<iuest  .  .  .  .  1884" 

Patriarchal  age 1883" 

Prehistoric;  and   primi- 
tive collections 1XX21' 

Royal  chronicles 188">" 

Royal  period 1XX11' 

cf  Writing 3123''  (Richardson) 

Library 

Alexandrian 4oGb  (Dosker) 

Bible  as  a 1XX2  ' 

Definition  of 1882" 

Natural     selection     of 

Bible 18X2- 

Of  Xincveh 21.")!"  (Sayce; 

of  Writing 3119''  (Richardson) 

Libya,  Libyans 18SG1' 

cf  Lubim 1934b 

Lice 188G1'  (Day) 

cf  Flea Ills'-  (Day  i 

cf  Gnat 1240"  (Day) 

cf  Plagues  of  Egypt.  .  .2404''  (Kyle) 

cf  Sand  Flies 2GXX1' 

Licence 1887" 

Lidebir 1887" 

cf  Lo-debar 1909''  (Ewing 

Lie,  Lying 1887"  (W.  Evans ) 

Biblical  instances 18871' 

cf  Christs,  False ()2Xh  (On- 
Defined 1887" 

cf  False  Swearing 74G'1  (Hirsch  > 

God's  attitude  toward  1887" 

cf  Oath 2172''  (Levertoff) 

Penalty  for 1887'' 

of  Prophesying*.  False.  24GGh  (Sohenk) 

Racial  sin,  a 1887" 

Words  employed 1887b 

Liers-in-wait 1888" 

of  Ambush 115'' 

Lieutenant 

of  Satrap 2G97" 

Life 1XXX"  (Reeve  i 

In  Acts 1890" 

cf     Antediluvian      Pa- 
triarchs  139"  (Davis) 

Apocryphal  ideas 1889" 

Capital  punishment   in 

OT 18X91' 

Complexity  of  idea  in 

OT 1888" 

Eternal  life  in  XT.  .  .  .  1889" 

In  Fourth  Gospel 18S9h 

cf  Immortality 14oX''  (Orr) 


GEXERAL  IXDEX 


Life — continued 

Johannine ideas 

Long     life    desired     in 
OT 

In  XT 

OT  ideas  of  immortal- 
ity  

OT  teaching 

In  Paul's  writings 

Popular  use  in  OT .... 

Relationship  with  (iod 

In  Synoptic  Gospels..  . 

Terms  used 

ef  Tree  of  Life 

Lift 

cf  Gate 

cf  Horn 

Light  

Attribute  of  holiness 

Church  as 

cf  Creeds 

Figurative  use 

cf  Johannine  Theology 

cf  Logos 

Origin  of 

Symbolism  of 

Various  meanings. .  .  . 

cf  Wisdom 

Light,  Lightness 

Lightning 

cf  Hail 

cf  Thunder 

Lign-aloes 

cf  Aloes 

Ligure 

cf  Stones,  Precious. .  . 
Like,     Liken,     Likenesf 

Liking 

Likhi 

Lilith 

cf  Night-monster .... 
Lily.. 

cf  Lily-work 

cf  Lotus  Trees 

Lily-work 

cf  Jachin  and  H.I.-I/.    . 

cf  Lily.  .  . 
Lime 

cf  Chalkstone 

cf  Clay 

cf  Rock 

Limit 

Line 

cf  Measuring  Line 

cf  Pencil 

cf  Rope .  . 

cf  Tools . 

cf  Weights  and    Mear 

ures .  . 
Lineage 

Linen  

cf  Flax  .  . 


1890' 

1888b 
1889" 

1S881' 
1888a 
1890" 
1888" 
I888b 
1889" 

1  888" 

3009"  (Reeve) 

1890h  (Easton) 

117.V'  (East on) 

1422"  (Easton) 

1S901'  (Pratt) 

1891b 

1 892" 

741"  (Alexander 

1891b 

(Lawj 

(Alexander 


1695b 
1911b 
1890b 

1892" 

1X91' 

3089"  (East on  i 

1892"  (Orn 

1S921'  (Joy. 

1319>>  (Joy) 

2977" (Jov) 


18921'  (Easlon  - 
1893° 

21431'  (Sweet) 

1893"  (Masterman  • 

1893b 

1 931''  (Masterman 

1891 11' 

15471'  (Caldecott 

1893"  (Masterman) 

1S931'  (Day) 

591"  (Day; 

(i()7"  (Day 

259(1"  (Day) 

1894° 

1891"  (Orr) 

201(1'  (Porter) 

2298" 

2f>2::!'  (Easton 

2999"  (Easton  i 

3079'  (1'orterj 
1894" 

1894"  (E.  I).  Isaacs 
.  1118"  (Mastennan 


Linen — continued 

Garments  made  of.  .  .  .  1894" 
History  of.  .  ...  .1894" 

cf  Silk,  Silkworm 2790b 

cf  Twine 3028" 

Lintel 

cf  House 1434'' 

Linus 1894b 

Lion ..189.5" 

Figurative  use 1895b 

Natural  history 1895" 

References  to 1895b 

Terms  used 1895" 

cf  Whelp 3083" 

Lip 1896" 


(Day ) 


(A.  C.  Dickie) 

(Rutherfurdi 
(Day) 


(Day) 

(Luering) 

(Luering) 


cf  Mouth 2093" 

Liquor 1896" 

cf  Drink,  Strong 8791'  (Edwards; 

cf  Wine 308(1"  (Easton 

List 1S961' 

cf  Lust 1941h  (Raffetyi 

Literature,  Sub-apostolic  189(lh  (Cowan) 
cf  Apocryphal  Acts.  .  .183''  (A.  F.  Findlayi 
cf  Apocryphal  Gospels.  195"  (Hutchison) 
Aristides,  Apology  of. .  1903" 
Church    in     Athens, 

the 1903b 

Contents 190.1' 

Xot  able  say  ings.  .  .  .  19031' 
Recovery  and  date. .  1903" 
Barnabas,  Epistle  of  .  .1901" 
Allegorical  met  hod.  .1901'' 
Contents  and  author- 
ship  19011' 

Date 19011' 

Xot  able  say  ings.  .  .  .1902" 
Reference     to     bap- 
tism  1902" 

Reference  to   Lord's 

Day 1902" 

Clement       to       Corin- 
thians, Epistle  of .  .  .  1897" 
Apologetic  value. .  .  .  18971' 
Authorship  and  date. 1897" 
Church         organiza- 
tion  1897'- 

Doctrinal  test  imony  18971' 
Occasion     and     con- 
tents  1897" 

Ritual 1898" 

Cle  men  t  ,     Se  co  n  d 

Epistle  of 19021' 

Agrapha  of  Jesus.  ,  .1903" 

Contents 1903" 

Date     and      author- 
ship  1903" 

Nature  of  document   19021' 
Notable  sayings          1903" 

Didache,  The 1898";  387>'(A.T 

sonj 


18981' 


GEXERAL INDEX 


Literature,  Sub-apost olic — contin  ncil 
Didache,  The — continued 

Church  officers 1899" 

Contents lS9Sh 

Date 1898" 

Disappearance      and 

recovery 1S9S:1 

Ordinances 1X9X'1 

Second  advent 1S991' 

Diognetus,  Epistle  of. .  190-1'- 

Contents 19()f>" 

Date     and     atithor- 

sliip 190  I1' 

cf  Gnosticism 1210"  (Kuthert'urdi 

cf  (Jospels,  Synoptic.  .  12S]1'  (Iverach) 
Hennas,  Shepherd  of .  .  1902' 
Authorship  and  date. 1902" 

Church  officers 19021' 

Contents  and  object  19021' 

Xotable  utterances. .  1902' ' 

Ignatius,  Epistle  of.  .  .1X99'' 

Author  and  date. .  .  .  1S991- 

Genuineness 1X99'1 

( llory  of  martyrdom  1900" 

beading  ideas 1900" 

Xotablc  ideas 1900" 

cf  John,  the  Apostle. .  .  170G1'  (Iverach.) 

Justin  Martyr 19031' 

Dialogue   with   Try- 

pho 1904" 

First  apology 19031' 

Life 1903'- 

Xotable  sayings.  .  .  .  1904" 
Reference  to  Lord's 

Day 190-1" 

Second  apology 190  l:l 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of ..  .  .19X7''  (Fanner) 
cf  Matthew,  Gospel  of  2009'-  (Scho.ldei 

Papias  Fragments 1901 l 

Author  and  date. .  .  .  1901  ' 
"John    the    Presby- 
ter"   1901" 

Matthew  and  Mark 

mentioned 1901" 

Xotablc  statements.  1901" 
cf  Peter,  Epistles  of.  .  .23olb  (Moorehead.) 
Polycarp,  Epistle  of .  .  .  19001' 
Chief  ideas  .  .            .  .  19001' 
Contents    and    occa- 
sion  19001' 

Date    and    genuine- 
ness  1900'1 

cf  Simon  Magus 279G'1  (Rutlierfurd  ) 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts 2X4:5"  (Lambert  i 

cf  Trine  Immersion.  .  ..'Mil1'  (Kurt/) 
cf  Widow.  .  .  .  .30X4"  (Eager) 

Litter .  .  . 190o" 

cf  Palau(iuin 220X-1 

Lit tie  Genesis 

cf  Book  of  Jubilees..  .  .  173"  (.1.  E.  II.  Thomson) 
Lively  .  .1  {)().?>  (W.  L.  Walker) 


Liver.  .  .  .  I905b  (Luering) 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder j 

cf  Caul 584b  (Luering) 

cf  Divination 860a  (T.  W.  Daviesj 

Living.  .  I905b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Living  Creature 190Ga  (Day) 

cf  Creature,  Living.  .  .  740h  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Lizard 1900*  (Day) 

.    cf  Chameleon 592"  (Day) 

cf  Ferret HOGb  (Day) 

cf  Gecko 11X1" 

cf  Land-crocodile lS2Gh  (Day) 

cf  Mole 2074"  (Day) 

Xames .    .  190Ga 

In  Palestine 190Gb 

References   to,    in   the 
Bible.  . .190Gb 

cf  Reptile 2.3G1" 

cf  Sand-li/anl 2G88b 

cf  Snail 2819"  (Day) 

cf  Spider 2840b  (Day) 

cf  Tortoise 2999b  (Day) 

cf  Weasel 307Gb  (Day) 

Loaf 

cf  Bread 514b  (Eager) 

Lo-ammi 1907"  (Lees) 

cf  Hosea 1424b  (J.  Robertson) 

cf  Jezreel 1G77"  (Ewing) 

Loan 18G5b  (Williams) 

Locks 1907"  (Luering) 

Locust 1907b  (Day) 

cf  Beetle 42o"  (Day) 

Figurative  references .  .1909" 

As  food 1909" 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager) 

Grasshopper 1908" 

Habits 1909" 

Identifications 1907b 

cf  Insects 1473"  (Day) 

Xames  of 19071' 

cf  Palmer-worm 223G" 

cf  Plagues  of  Egypt  .  .  .240f>b  (Kyle) 

Lod,  Lydda 1909"  (Ewing) 

Biblical  references ....  1909" 

History 19091' 

Identification 19091' 

Lodd(>us  (Saddens) 19091' 

Lo-debar 1909b  (Ewing) 

cf  Lidebir 1X87" 

I^'dge 1910" 

Loft 1910" 

Loftily,  Loftiness,  Lofty.  1910" 

Log 1910" 

cf  Weights  and   Meas- 

3079"  (Porter) 

1910"  (Smith) 

72"  (Smith) 

19111 

19101' 

1910" 

12X11'  (Iverach) 


Logia,  The 

cf  Agraplia 

Date 

Description  of 

Discovery  of 

cf  Gospels,  Synoptic 


cf  Jesus  Christ  (sources)  1G2G"  (Orr) 


3302 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Logia — con  tinned 

cf  Luke,  Gospel  of 1939"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Meaning  of  word 1910" 

New  sayings  of  Jesus. .  1910b 
Old  sayings  of  Jesus. .  .  1910b 
Origin  and  character.  .  1911" 

cf  Papyrus 2242"  (Goodspecd.) 

Logos 191 11'  (Alexander; 

Alexandrian  synthesis.  1913h 

Personality 1914" 

Philo " 1913b 

Special  features 19131' 

Christian  realization.  .1914" 

InEp.  to  Hebrews.  .1914'' 

In     Fourth    Gospel, 
doctrine 1914b 

In     Fourth     Gospel, 
Logos  and  God. .  .  1915" 

In     Fourth     Gospel, 

Logos  and  world  .  191")" 

In     Fourth    Gospel, 
terms  used 1915b 

Pauline  doctrine. .  .  .  1914" 

Philo  and  John 1910" 

cf   Doctrine  of,  in  Jo- 

hannine  Theology.  .1099"  (Law) 
Greek  speculation 1912" 

Anaxagoras 1912" 

Aristotle 19121' 

Hoi-adit  us 1912" 

Plato 1912" 

Stoics 1912b 

Hebrew  anticipation  of 

doctrine 1912b 

Distinctions  in  Deity  1913" 

Revelation  of  God.  .1913" 

Targums 1913" 

Theophanies 1913" 

Wisdom 1913' 

cf  John,  Gospel  of .  .  .  .  1720'1  (Ivoraeh) 

Logos  doctrine 1725b 

cf  Light 1S911'  (Pratt) 

Meaning  of  term 191  lb 

cf  Mediation 2021"  (Edwards) 

Patristic  development.  191Gb 

cf  Philosophy 23S4b  (Rocs) 

cf  Platonic  Doctrine  of.337b  (Roes) 

cf  Speech 2839b  (W.  L.  Walker  i 

cf  Wisdom  of  God 3092"  (Easton) 

cf  Wisdom  of  Solomon.  3092a  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Word 3105"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Loins 1917"  (Luering) 

cf  Leg 1SG5"  (Luering) 

cf  Thigh 2972b  (Easton) 

Lois 1917b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Eunice 1037a  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Timothy 2983b  (Rutherfurd) 

Longevity 1917b  (Macalister) 

Longsuffering 191Sa  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Patience 2263b  (W.  L.  Walker] 

Look..  .  ,191Sb  (Easton) 


1904"  (Cowan) 
(Carverj 


Looking-glass 1919" 

cf  Glass 1233"  (Porter) 

Loom 

cf  Weaving 3077"  (Patch) 

Loop 1919" 

Lord  of  Hosts 1919" 

cf  God,  Names  of 1204b  (Mack) 

cf  Host  of  Heaven.  .  .  .  1433b  (Orr) 

cf  War,  Man  of 3072* 

Lord,  The  Lord 1919"  (Carver) 

cf  God,  Names  of 120  lb  (Mack) 

cf  Keys,  Power  of 179Ga  (Carver) 

cf  Lord's  Day 1919"  (Easton) 

Lord's  Day 1919"  (Easton) 

Change  from  Sabbath  .  1920" 

cf  Ethics  of  Jesu< 102CV 

Later  history 1920 

cf      Literature,      Sub- 
apos 1902 

cf  Lord,  The  Lord.  .  ..1919 

Meaning  of  term 1919" 

NT  use 1919b 

Origin 19191' 

Post-apostolic  use 1919b 

Practical  usage 1920" 

cf  Sabbath 2031"  (Sampey) 

Sunday  and  Sabbath  .  .  1920" 
Lord's  Prayer,  The 1920b  (Miller) 

Arrangement 1920b 

cf  Church  of 21SS"  (MastermanJ 

Purpose 1921" 

Sources 1921" 

Special  expressions. .  .  .  1921" 

Two  forms  of 19201' 

Lord's  Supper  (Bunkers)  192Sb  (Kurt/) 

cf  Agape G91'  (Lambert) 

Church  of  the  Brethren 

(Bunkers) 192Sb 

Date 192Sb 

Love  feast,  the 1929" 

Perpetuation  of  sup- 
per  1929" 

Practice  of  Brethren 

(Bunkers) 1929" 

Lord's  Supper  (general)  .  1921b  (Gummey) 

Definition 1921b 

Historical  set  ting 19221' 

cf  Jesus  Christ 105Sb  (Orr) 

cf  Johannine Theology  1704b  (Law) 

cf  Literal ure,  Sub-apos.l904b  (Cowan) 

Liturgical  tradition  .  .  .  192 4" 

cf  Meals,  Meal-time  .  .2015"  (Eager) 

cf  Mediation 2022"  (Edwards.) 

NT  narratives 1922" 

NT  sources 1921b 

Observance      by      the 
church 1923a 

cf  Paul,  Theology  of .  .  2292b  (Easton) 

Post-apos  fathers 1923b 

Post-apos  usage1 1923b 

Preparation     for     the 
Eucharist .  .  .  .  1922" 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Lord's  Supper  (general) — continued 

cf  Sacraments 2036a  (Lambert) 

cf  Sacrifice,  NT 2G57b  (Williams) 

Sequence  of  the  insti- 
tutions  1923* 

cf  Washing  of  Feet..  .  .  3()72b  (Anderson ) 

Words     and     acts     of 

Jesus 1922h 

Lord's     Supper     (histori- 
cal)   1924b  (Dosker) 

In  apos  church 1925" 

Calvin 1926b 

Derivation 19241' 

Elements,  the 1925" 

Luther 1926" 

Original  institutions.  .  .  19241' 

Post-apos  church 19251' 

Roman  usage 1925b 

Zwingli 1926" 

Lord's  Supper  (Lutheran 

interpretation) 1926b  (Dau.) 

Command  of  Christ.  .  .  1927b 

Difficulties 1928" 

Doctrinal    contents    of 
texts 1927a 

Elements  used 1927b 

Eucharistic  texts 1927" 

Purpose  of  ordinance. .  1928" 

Source  and  norm 1927" 

Term  Eucharist,  the.  .  192Gb 
Lords  of  the  Philistines. .  1929b 

cf  Philistines 2376b  (Conder) 

Lo-ruhamah 

cf  Lo-amrni 1907"  (Lees) 

cf  Ruhamah 2625b 

cf  Shear-jashub 2752b 

Loss 1929h  (Williams) 

Lot 

cf  Divination SCO"  (T.  W.  Daviesj 

cf  Pension 2298" 

Lot,  (person) 1929b  (Boyd);   18b  (Boyd) 

Critical  views 1931" 

Early  career 1930" 

Later     Biblical     refer- 
ences   1931" 

Later  period 1930b 

Personality 1929b 

Relations    with    Abra- 
ham   1930" 

Wife 1931" 

Lotan 19311' 

Lothasubus 19311' 

Lots 

cf  Divination SCO"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Lots,  Feast  of 

cf  Purim 2506b  (Mack) 

Lotus  Trees 1931b  (Masterman) 

cf  Lily 1893"  (Masterman) 

Love 1931b  (W.  Evans) 

Biblical  references .  .  .    1931b 

Definition 1932" 

God's  love..  1932" 


Love — continue*!. 

God's  love;  objects.  .  .  1932a 

Human  love;   manner.  19331' 

Human  love;  objects. .  1933" 

Human  love;   source    .  1933" 

Love,  Brotherly 5251'  (Recsj 

Love-feast 

cf  Agape G9b  (Lambert; 

Lovely 1934-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Lover 1934"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Loves 1934" 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of.  .  .  .  2IS7"  (Sampey) 
Lovingkindness 1934"  (W.  L.  Walken 

cf  Brotherly  Love :>2f)b  (Rees) 

cf  Goodness 1279-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Kindness 1799"  (W.  I/.  Walker; 

cf  Mercy 2035b  (W.  L.  Walker, 

Low  Country 

cf  Shcphelah 2702"  (Ewing) 

Lowland 19341'  (Day 

cf  Natural  Features. .  .2122"  (Day) 

cf  Shcphelah 2702"  (Ewing) 

cf  Vale 3015"  (Day) 

Lozon 1934b 

Lubim 1934b 

cf  Lehabim lX(55b 

cf  Libya 18SGb 


cf  Shishak  .  .  . 
Lucas  (Luke) .  . 
Lucian 

cf  Septuagint . 


(Nicol) 


193  lb 


(Thackeray) 


Lucifer 1934b 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

Lucius 193")"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Numenius 2170"  (Angus) 

Lucius  (Roman) 19341'  (Hutchison) 

Lucre 1935" 

Lud,  Ludim 1935"  (Pinches) 

Egyptian  Lud 19351' 

cf  Lydia 1943"  (Banks) 

Semitic  Lud 1935" 

Two  different  peoples.  1935" 

Luhith,  Ascent  of 1935h  (Ewing) 

Luke 

cf  Lucas 1934b 

Luke,  The  Evangelist  .  .  .1935b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Acts  of  Apostles.  .  .  .39"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Author    of    Acts    and 
Luke 193(5'' 

Brother  of  Titus 193G1' 

Gentile 1930' 

Home 1930" 

Name 1935b 

NT  references 193(5" 

Painter 1930b 

Physician 1936" 

Relations  with  Paul. .  .  1936b 
Luke,  The  Gospel  of .  .  .  .1930b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Acts  of  Apostles. .     .39"  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Analysis 1941" 

Authorship 19371' 

( 'anonicitv  .  .  1937" 


3304 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Luke,  The  Gospel  of — continued 

Characteristic- 19401' 

Credibility 1940" 

Date.  .  HMO'1 

Genuineness 1938" 

cf  Gospels,  Synoptic  .  .  1281h  (Iveracli) 

Infancy  narrative 19381' 

Literary  style.  .          .  .  1S311'  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Logia,  the 1939" 

Luke's  method 1938" 

Relat  ions  to  Gospel  of 
Mark 1939" 

Sources 1938" 

Text 193(1" 

Lunatic 19411'  (Sweet  > 

cf  Mad,  Madness 19(10''  (Macalister) 

cf  Night -monster •_)1431>  (Sweet  ) 

Lurk,  Lurking-place 1941'' 

Lust  .  .  .  .  .  19  1 11'  (UafTcty.) 

cf  List  .  .  .  189(1'' 

NT  usage.  .  .19412" 

<)T  usage 1942" 

Lute 1'.M2' 

cf  Music.  .  .  .200  I1'  (Millar) 

Lut  her 

Doctrine     of     justifica- 
tion  1787"  (Faulkner) 

cf   Lord's  Supper  (his- 
torical)  192(1"  (.Dosker; 

Luz.  .  .  .     1!M2"  i  living) 

Lycaonia.  .  .  19421'  (Calder) 

cf  Derbe S301'  (Calder) 

cf  Icnnium 1  14lil>  (Calderi 

cf  Lystra 1944"  (Calder) 

Lycia 1943"  (Banks) 

cf  Phaselis.  .  .    23(i:>b  (Banks) 

Lydda 

cf  Lod.  .                         .    1909-  'Kwing) 
Lydia  (country) 1943"  (.Hanks) 

cf  Asia 2721'  (Banks) 

cf  Lud,  Luditn  .  .i93f>"  (Pinches) 

cf  Phili])pi.  .  .  .23(19"  (Tod) 

Lydia  (person) 19431'  (S.  F.  Hunter, 

Lydian 

cf  Lydia.  .  .  .1943"  (Banks) 

Lydians  and  Asia  Minor  2741'  (C'alder) 
Lye 

cf  Nitre.  .                       .  ,2lf>3"  (  Patch  i 
Lying 1887"  (,\V.  Evans) 

cf  Christ  s,  False (128b  (Orr) 

cf  False  Swearing 746b  (llirsch) 

cf  Oath.  .  .2172''  (Levertoff) 

cf  Prophesyings,  False  24(l(ib  (Schenk) 


Lysanias 

cf  Abilene 

Lysias 

cf  Claudius  Lysias 
cf  Gallio 

Lysimachus .... 

cf  Esther,  The  Hest  ( 
cf  Robbers  of  Temple 


19431'  (Kern 
.  II"  (C.  H.  Thomson: 
.  19431'  (Hutchison) 
.lido1'  (Kerr) 

1H171'  (Kerr; 

1944"  (Hutchison.) 
.1009''  (T.  W.  navies  i 
,2f>9ob 


Lystra 1944"  (Calder) 

cf  Antioch 156b  (Calder) 

Character  and  site.  ...  1944a 

cf  Iconium 144Gb  (Calder) 

cf  Lycaonia 1942h  (Calder) 

Paul  and  Barnabas  at.!944b 
Religion  of 19H1' 

Maacah,    Maachah    (per- 


sons)  

19  1.")"         (Ewing)  ; 

cf  Alicaiah 

(Beecher) 

2047"  (Lees) 

c:f  Tamar  
Maacah  (place)  
cf  Maacathites  
Maacathites  
Maachathites 
cf  Maacah  (place)  .  .  . 
Maadai 

2907h  (Orr) 
.  1945a  (Ewing) 
194"y 
1945" 

1945"  (Ewing) 
194f)h 

Maadiah  (Moadiah)  .  . 
Maai  
Maaleh-acrabbim  
cf  Akrabbim  
Maani  
cf  Meani  
Maarath 

1945b 
1945b 
L945b 
89" 
1945b 
2016" 
I945b 

Maareh-geba  
Maasai  (Maasiai)  
Maaseas  (Mahseiah      . 
Maaseiah  
cf  Mahseiah  
cf  \loossias 

1945b  (Ewing) 
1945b 

191.-)1' 
194r>>>  (Lees) 
1907" 
2081b 

Maaseiali  (Baaseiah)  .  .  . 
Maaseiah  (Massias)  .  .  . 
cf  Manes  
cf  Mathelas. 

19  Hi" 
20()7b 
1981" 
2008" 

Maasiai 
cf  Maasai  
Maasmas  
cf  Shemaiah  

1945b 
L946a 

2759"  (Wolf) 

Maath 

1946° 

Maaz 

1940' 

Maaziah  
Mabdai 
cf  Mamdai  
Mabnabedai 

1946" 

I972b 

1946" 

cf  Machnadebai 

1959b 

Macalon  
cf  Miclimas  
Maccabaeus,  Maccabees 

Antiochus  Epiphanes.  . 
cf  Architecture    

1946" 

2048" 
1946"    (Hutchison); 
(Dosker) 
1946b 
237b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Vristobulus 

241b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Asmoneans  
cf   Between   the  Testa- 
ments   
cf  Hasidaeans  
i'f  Ilvrcanus 

283"  (Dosker) 

4")")"  (Dosker) 
1342h  (Hutchison) 
1  1  lob 

John  and  Elea/ar  
John  Hyrcanus  
Jonathan 

1947" 
1947" 

1917" 

1(1' 


OEXERAL  INDEX 


3305 


Maccabaeus,  Maccabees  —  continued 
Judas  ......  ...1949";    1765"  (Hutchison; 

cf  Jerusalem  .......  KJl7b  (Masterman) 

cf  Lacedaemonians..  .  .  1S191'  (Hutchison) 

cf    Maccabees,     Books 

of  ................  19471'  (T.  \V.  Davies) 


Mattathias 
cf  Modiu 
Name 

Palestine      under 
Maccabees 


194(1'';  20()<S1'  (Angus) 
2073"  (Ewing) 
10-1(5" 


the 


19461' 

Palestine'  under  Syria  .  19  Hi'1 
Simon  ..............  1947-  27941'  (Anvils) 

cf  Sparta,  Spartans.  .  .2839''  (Orr) 

cf  Temple  ...........  293(5b  (Caldecott;    Orr) 

cf  Tryphon  ..........  3027"  (Angus) 

Maccabees,  Books  of.  ...  1947''  (T.  YV.  Davies) 

cf  Apocrypha  ........  17S1'  (T.  W.  Daviesj 

cf  Asmoneans  ........  283"  (Dosker) 

1  Maccabees  .........  1947b 

Canonicity  ........  1948" 

Contents  ..........  1948" 

Date  .............  19491' 

Historicity  .....  194Sb 

Name.  .  ..  .........  19  471' 

Official  letters  ......  194Sb 

Original  language  .  .  .  1950" 
Prayers  and  speeches!948b 
Sources  ...........  1950" 

Standpoint  and  aim  1949" 
Text  and  versions.  .  .  1950b 

2  Maccabees  .........  15)50'' 

Author  ............  1953" 

Contents  ..........  19501' 

Date  .............  1953" 

Historicity  .........  19511' 

Name      and     canon- 

icity  ............  1950'' 

Official  documents.  .  1951b 
Original  language  .  .  .  1953" 
Pharisaic  standpoint  1951b 
Sources  ...........  1951" 

Teachings  .........  1  952" 

3  Maccabees  .........  1953'' 

Canonicity  ........  1953b 

Contents  ..........  1953'' 

Date     and     author- 

ship ............  1951'' 

Historicity  ........  1954" 

Language  and  text  .  1954'' 
Miraculous  deliver- 

ances of  Jesus.  .  .  .  1953b 

Name  .............  1953'' 

Teaching  and  aim.  .  .  1954'" 

4  Maccabees  .........  1954b 

Canonicity  and  con- 

tents ...........  1955" 

Date  and  author- 

ship ............  1955" 

Language  and  text  .  .1955'' 
Xame  .............  19541' 

Teachings  .  .  .  .  1955" 


Maccabees,  Books  of — continued 

5  Maccabees 19551' 

Canonicity  and  con- 
tents  1955b 

Date     and     author- 
ship  1956" 

Historicity 1956-' 

Name 19551' 

Original  language.  .  .195(5" 
Purpose,    and    tench- 
ing 195(5" 

cf  Palestine 2220'' 

cf  Resurrect'   .; 25(53'' 

Macedonia 195(1" 

Christians  mentioned. .  1959" 
Christian  won. en  in.  .  .  195S1' 

Church  in 195S'> 

Church    characterist  ics 

in 1958'' 

History 195(ib 

Land  and  people 195(5'' 

Paul  and  Macedonia.  .  1957'' 

Paul's  first  visit 1957'' 

Paul's  second  visit  ....  195S" 

Paul's  third  visit 195S1' 

Paul's  visits  later 19581' 

Philip  and  Alexander. .  1957" 

cf  Philippi 23(59"  (Tod) 

Roman  intervention. .  .  1957" 
Roman  province,  a. ...  1957b 
Roman  times  and  after- 
ward  19571' 

Machaerus 1959"  (Ewing) 

Machbannai 1959'' 

Machbena 1959'' 

cf  Cabbon 536" 

Machi 1959'' 

Machir,  Machirite 1959b  (Lees) 

Machmas 

cf  Michmash 204S"  (.Ewing  i 

Machnadebai 1959'' 

Machpelah 1959''  (Mastermaii) 

Biblical  references.  .  .  .1959'' 

Cave  of I9601' 

Cenotaphs     of      patri- 
archs   19(50" 

Haram  at  Hebron.  .  .  .  19(50" 

cf  Hebron 13(55"  (Mastermaii) 

cf  Mamre 1973"  (Mastermaii) 

Traditional  site I960" 

Visits  to 19(50" 

Maconah 

•f  Mccona.li .  .  .  .201(5' 


Macron  (Ptolemy)    .  . 

.  .  .  I9601'  (Angus) 

Mad,  Madness  

.  .  .  I9601'  (Macaliston 

cf  Lunatic  

.  .  .  19411'  (Sweet) 

NT  references  

.    .19(51" 

(  )T  references  

.    .  1961" 

Saul's  insanity  .  .  .  . 

.  19(51" 

Madai 

cf  Modes.  . 

2()17:'  (Tisdall  ) 

3306 


GEXERAL  INDEX 


Madeba  Mosaic 

cf  Palestine,  lucent  1  Ex- 
ploration  2225b  (Coberin 

Madiabun 

cf  Emadabun 9  10" 

Madian 

cf  Midian 2049-  (Ewing) 

Madmannah 190 11' 

Madmen 19611' 

Madmenah 19G11' 

Madness I960'-  (Macalister 

Madon 1961''  (Ewing 

Maelns !<)('>  I1' 

Magadan  (Dalmanutha)  1961''  (Ewing) 
Magbish  (Magpiasln..  .  .19(12' 
Magdala 

cf  Magadan 1961'1  (Ewing) 

cf  Palestine 22211'  (Condor) 

Magdalene 

cf  Mary 2003''  (S\veet  ) 

Magdiel 1962" 

Maged  (Maked) 19(1!)' 

Magi,  The 19(12''  (Tisdall) 

cf  Astrology 29r,'>  (Maunder) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

cf  Divination 860"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1633"  (Orr) 

Magi  at  Bethlehem.  .  .1962'' 

cf  Magic 1963'  (T.  W.  Daviesj 

Median  tribe 19(12' 

cf  Persian  Religion..  .  .2334''  (Tisdall 

cf  Wise  Men 3096''  (Easton) 

cf  Zoroastrianism 3157"  (Easton) 

Magi,  Star  of 2848"  (Maunder; 

Magic,  Magician IOC.:}"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Amulet 12(1''  (T.  W.  Davies; 

In  the  Bible 1963'' 

Bible,  hostility  of,  to.  .1963'' 
Biblical    denunciations 

of 193  I1' 

Biblical  terms 1064" 

cf  Charm 597b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Definition 1963" 

cf  Demonology 827b  (Sweet) 

cf  Divination 8(50"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Divination  and  sorccry!964b 

Impersonal  magic 19(13 ' 

Influence  of  charms  .  .  .1964" 

cf  Jannesand  Jambres.  1568"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Magi,  The 1962"  (Tisdall) 

Magical  words 1961' 

Personal  magic 1963'' 

Religion  and 19631' 

cf  Repetitions 2.">59b  (Easton) 

Term  used 1963" 

cf  Witch,  Witchcraft.  .3097"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Magistrate 1965"  (Ilirsch) 

Magnifical 1965" 

Magnificat 1965a 

Magnify 1965b 

Magog 1965'' 


•f  Go- 


1273"  (Reeve) 


Magor-missabib 1965b 

Magpiash  (Magbish). .  .  .  1962" 

Magus,  Simon 2795b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Magi 1962"  (Tisdall) 

cf  Magic 1963"  (T.  W.  Davies: 

Mahalah  (Mahlah) 1965'' 

Mahalalel  (Mahalaleelj .  .  1965'';  139"  (Davis; 

Mahalath 1965'-  (Orr) 

cf  Basemath 411"  (Breslich) 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of. .  .  .  2487"  (Sampey) 

Mahali  (Mahli) 2081" 

Mahanaim  (Mahaneh) .  .  1966"  (Ewing) 

Jacob  at 1966" 

Site  of 1966" 

Mahaneh  (.Mahanaim) .  .  1966"  (Ewing) 

Mahaneh-dan 196(i'>  (Ewing) 

cf  Kiriath-jearim 1S11'1  (Masterman) 

Maharai 1966'' 

Maliath 19661'  (Wallace) 

Mahavite 19(17" 

Mahazioth 1967" 

Maher-shalal-hash-baz  .  .  1967" 

cf  Shear-jashub 2752'1 

Mahlah  (Mahalah) 19(57"  (Wallace) 

Mahli  (Mahali) 1967" 

Mahli  (Mooli) 2081" 

cf  Mahlites 1967" 

cf  Mahlon 1967" 

Mahlites 

cf  Mahlah 1967"  (Wallace) 

cf  Mahli 1067" 

Mahlon 1967" 

cf  Mahlah 1967"  (Wallace) 

cf  Mahli 1967" 

Mahol 1967'' 

Mahseiah  (Maaseas) .  .  .  .1067'' 

cf  Maaseiah 10451'  (Loos) 

Maiannas 1067" 

cf  Maaseiah 1945''  (Lees) 

Maid,  Maiden 19671'  (Pollard) 

cf  Girl 1232" 

cf  Virgin 3051''  (Easton) 

Mail 1967'> 

cf  Armor,  Arms 251"  (Xicol) 

Maimed 19671'  (Macalister) 

Mainsail 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Xicol) 

Makaz 1068" 

Make,  Maker 1968"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Changes  in  RV 1968'' 

XT  usage 1968'' 

OT  usage 1968' 

Makebates 1068'' 

Maked  (Maged) 1969" 

Maker 1968"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Makheloth 1969" 

cf    Wanderings   of    Is- 
rael  3064"  (Conder) 

Makkedah 1969a  (Ewing) 

Maktesh,  The I969a  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 1608a  (Masterman) 

cf  Mishneh 20661'  (Mastermanj 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Malachi  

19G9|J  (Robinson  i 

Contents  

1970" 

Message  

19701' 

cf  Messenger  

2039-  (Breslich) 

Name  

1969b 

Period  of  

1969b 

Style  

19701' 

Malachy  

1971"  (Robinson; 

cf  Malachi  

19G9b  (Robinson) 

Malcam  (Malcham)  .  .  .  . 

1971" 

Malcam  (Molech)  

1971' 

Malcham  (Malcam)  

1971- 

Malchiah  (Melchiah).  .  .  . 

2028- 

cf  Malchijah  

1971-  (Wallace) 

Malchiel  

197  13 

Malchielites  

1971" 

Malchijah  

197  1"  (Wallace) 

Malchiram  

1971- 

Malchi-shua  

1971" 

Malchus  

1971-  (Kerr) 

Male  

1971b  (Luering) 

cf  Woman  

,3100-  (Pratt) 

Malefactor  

1972- 

Malcleel  

1972- 

Malice,  Malignity  

1972-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Malignity  

1972-  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Mallos 

cf  Mallus  

1972-  (Ewing) 

Mallothi  

1972-  (Wallace; 

Mallows 

cf  Salt-wort  

26641'  (Mastermaii; 

Malluch  

1972- 

Malluch  (Mamuchusj  .  .  . 

1974- 

Malluchi  

1972" 

cf  Malluch  

1972- 

Mallus  

1972-  (Ewing) 

Malobathron  (Bethcr)..  . 

19721' 

Maltanneus  (Altaneus)  .  . 

19721' 

cf  Mattenai  

2009" 

Mamaias 

cf  Samaias  

2071-  (Angus) 

Mamdai  

1972l> 

Mammon  

1972b  (Miller; 

cf  Riches  

2590b  (Forrester) 

Mamnitanemus  (Mamni- 

tanaimus) 

cf  Mattaniah  

200S1'  (Wallace) 

cf  Mattenai  

2009" 

Mamre  

1973-  (Ma.sterrnan) 

Biblical  data  

1973" 

cf  Hebron  

136.5-  (Masterman) 

cf  Machpelah  

I960-  (Masterman; 

Three  sites  mentioned 

1973" 

Traditional  sites  

1973" 

Mamuchus  (Malluch)  .  .  . 

1974" 

Man 

cf  Anthropology  

144b  (Marais) 

Antiquity  of  

151a 

Nature  of  

145b 

Origin  of  

146b 

Primitive  conditions  of 

.150b 

Unity  of  race  

147>> 

Man,  Natural .  . 
Biblical  meaning . 
Carnal  man  .... 
cf  Man,  New. .  .  . 


1974" 

1971" 
19741' 
1975" 


(Wel)b 


(Webb; 


(Pratt) 


cf  Old  Man.  . 

Outward  man,  the  ....  197  l:i 
cf  Outward  Man.  .  .220.")" 

cf  Regeneration 254G1'  (Nuelsen; 

cf  Spiritual 2S421'  (Pratt  > 

Theological  meaning.  .  197  I1' 
Man,  New 1975"  (Webbi 

Biblical  meaning 1975" 

Inward  man 197")' 

cf  Man,  Natural 1974-  (Webb) 

cf  Old  Man 2183b  (Pratt 

cf  Outward  Man 2205";    1974" 

Spiritual  man 1975";  2S441' 

Terms  used 1975'' 

Theological  meaning.  .  1975b 
.Man,  Old 21S31'  (Pratt) 

cf  Man,  New 1975"  (Webb; 

Man,  Outward 2205" 

cf  Man,  Natural 1974-  (Webb) 

Man  of  Sin 1975b  (Orr; 

cf  Antichrist 154-  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Belial 43 lb  (Orr) 

Essential  idea,  the.  .  .  .1976'' 

Pauline  description  .  .  .  1975b 

cf  Perdition 2320-  (Vos) 

cf  Revelation  of  John .  2582b  (Orr) 

cf  Thessalonians 2969-  (R.  II.  Walker) 

Varying  descriptions.  .  197Ga 

Man,  Son  of 2S28b  (Stalker) 

Man  of  War 

cf  War 3069b  (Nicol) 

Manaen  (Menahem)  ....  197G1'  (Orr) 
Manahath 197Gb  (Ewing) 

cf  Mcnuhah 2033" 

cf  Menuhoth 2033-  (Wallace) 

cf  Zoritcs 3157- 

Manahathitcs        (Mana- 

hethitcs) 1977 ' 

Manasseas 1977- 

Manasseh  (general) 1977-  (Wallace) 

cf  Pahath-moab 2207"  (Wallace) 

Manasseh  (king) 1978-  (Genung) 

Character  of  reign ....  1978b 

cf  Hezekiah 1385"  (Genung) 

Idolatrous  conduct. .  .  .  1978'1 

Journey  to  Babylon. .  .  19791' 

cf  Manasses,  The  Prayer 

of .  .1979b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Name 197S" 

Persecution 1979" 

Political  situation 1978b 

Repentance 1979" 

Sources  for 1978b 

Manasseh          (j)atriarch, 

tribe,   territory) 1977"  (Ewing) 

Genealogies  of 1978- 


3308 


GEXKRAL   INDEX 


Manasseh  (patriarch,  tribe,  territory)— rw////n 

History  ol' 197X" 

<•)'  Israel.  History  of  the 

People 1521-  (Urelli. 

of  Jehoiaehin l.r)77:i  (Geniing) 

Location  in  Canaan    .  .  1977'' 
Son  of  Joseph  .  ...  1977'' 

Tribe  in  early  period.  .  1977'1 

Manassos 1070:1  (Angu> 

Manassos,  Prayer  of.  .  .  .1979''  (T.  W.  Da  vies 

Authenticity 1980" 

Canonicity 19791' 

Contents 1980" 

Date 19S01' 

cf  Manassoh 1977-  (Wai,  i  ••• 

cf  Manasses 1979'  (Ann  '- 

Motive  of  author 19801' 

Xanie 1979'1 

Original  language 1980" 

Probable  fiction 1980" 

Text  and  versions 19S01' 

cf  Text  of  OT 29:>7>J  (Weir) 

Manas.sites 1980" 

Man-child 19SOb 

Mandrakes 1981"  (Master:i,.m 

Munch  (Mina) 1981-  (Porter) 

cf  Pound 2!2f>"  (Porter' 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter; 

Manes 1981" 

of  Maaseiah 1945b  (Lees  i 

Manger 19Slb  (Orr 

Mani  (Bani) 19S11' 

Manifest,  Manifestation.  1981"  (W.  L.  Walker. 

Manifestly 198 1" 

Manifold 1981"  (W.  L.  Walker, 

Manius,  Titus  (Manlius, 

Titus) 1982"  (Angus 

cf  Memmius,  Quint  us.  2030"  (Angus' 

Mankind 19X2'1 

Manlius,  Titus   (Manius, 

Titus) 1982"  (Angus) 

Manna 1982"  (Masterman) 

cf  Moses 2087"  (Kyle) 

Natural  explanations.  .  19S21' 

XT  references 19S21' 

OT  references 1982" 

Manner,  Manners 19821'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Apocryphal  use 1983" 

NT  usage 19831' 

OT  usage 1982h 

Manoah 19831'  (Schenkj 

Manservant 1983" 

cf  Servant 2738b  (McGlothlin  ) 

cf  Slave 2815"  (Raffety) 

Mansion 1983b 

Manslaughter 1983b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Murder 209-4='  (Ilirsch) 

Manslayer 1983b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Murder 2094"  (Hirsch) 


Manstealing 

cf  Kidnapping  .  .  17971° 

cf  Punishments 250 4 b  (Hirsch) 

Mantelet .  .  .  1984" 

of  Siege 278<i"  (Xicol) 

Mantle 198  p 

of  Dress 875"  (Eager) 

of  Kerchief 1793" 

Manuscripts 1984"  (Richardson) 

of  Hook 49.7'  (Richardson] 

of  Septuaginl 2722"  (Thackeray) 

of    Text    and     Manu- 
scripts of  XT 29.")0b  (Sittorlyi 

of  \'ersions,   Georgian, 

Gothic,  Slavonic..  .  .3048"  (Eastotu 
of  Writing.  .  .  .  .3114"   (Richardson); 

(Richardson ) 
Manuscripts  of  the  XT 
cf    Texts    and    Manu- 
scripts of  NT.       .  .  .29.")()h  (Sitforly) 
Manuscripts  of  the  OT 
cf    Language's    of    the 

OT 1X32"  (Weir) 

Maoch  (Maaoah) 1984" 

Maon,  Maonites 1981:i  (living) 

Mar 198  P1 

Mara 1981'' 

Marah 198  I1' 

cf     Wanderings  of  Is- 
rael  3064"  (Condor) 

Maralah 198  1b 

Maranatha 198  lb 

Marble.  .  .  19X1"  (Day) 

March,  Marches 

cf  War 30(19"  (  Xicol) 

Marehoshvan 

of  Time 29X1"  (Porter) 

Marcion.  ( lospel  of 

of  Apocryphal  (!os|)els.l97"  (Hutchison) 
Marcus 

cf  Mark 198f>"  (Pratt) 

Mardocheus  (Mordecai) .  198,">-' 

Marduk 371"  (Rogers) 

Mare 198.')" 

cf  Camel ->47b  (Day) 

cf  Horse 1423"  (Day) 

Marc-shah 198.r'  (Exving) 

of     Palc-stinc-,     Rc-ceni 

Exploration 2227"  (Cobornj 

Marimoth  (Meraioth).  .  .198')";  2030" 

cf  Memeroth 2030" 

Mariner 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774a  (Xicol) 

Marisa 198.7' 

cf  Marc-shah 1985'1  (Ewingj 

Marish 19851' 

Marissa 

cf  Architecture 237b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Mark  (noun) 1985b  (Pratt) 

cf  Cuttings  in  the  Flesh  770a  (Eager) 

cf  Print 2455a  (Richardson) 

Mark  (verb) 1985b  (Pratt) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Mark,    The    Gospel    ac- 
cording to 19871'  ^  Farmer; 

Authorship.  19891' 

Eusebius 1990  •• 

External  evidence. .  .  19891' 

Internal  evidence.  .  .  19901' 

Frenaeus  . . 1990" 

Pa]>ias.  19S91' 

Peter's  relation  to.  .  19891' 
cf  Catechist .  .  .  .  ..">82b  (Gerberdingi 

Contents   and    charac- 
teristics  19871' 

Graphic  del  ails 19881' 

Jesus  as  teacher.     .  . 198S" 

Mighty      works      of 
Jesus 1988" 

OT  (Dotations 19SS:l 

Peculiarities 19S7b 

Scope 19S7b 

Date  and  place  of  com- 
position   19921' 

Caesarea  or  Ant  ioch  1 9931' 

Varying  data 1992b 

Historicity 1993" 

Language 19S9a 

Original  language   .  .  19S9h 

Vocabulary 1989a 

Leading  doctrines 1994b 

Eschatology 1994b 

Person  of  Christ ..  .  .  1994b 

Salvation 1994b 

Literature  on 1995a 

cf    Literature,     Sub- 

apos 1901"  (Cowan) 

cf  Luke,  The  Gospel  of.  1939"  (A.  T.  Rob(>rtson  i 

Style 1 989h 

cf  Mark,  John 198G1'  (Farmer) 

cf  Matthew,  Gospel  of  2012-  (Schodde) 
Purpose  and  plan 1993b 

Gospel  for  Romans. .  1993b 

Plan  of  Mark 1994* 

Second  Gospel,  our  .  .  .  1987b 
Sources  and  integrity. .  1991a 

Apostolic  traditions.  1992" 

Early  writings 1991b 

Oral  instruction.  .  .  .1991" 

Peter's  leadership. .  .  1992a 
Text 1988b 

Problem  of  16  9-20  1989a 

Mark,  John 198(5b  (Farmer) 

Abandonment  of  Paul  1987a 
Extra-Biblical  tradi- 
tions  1987a 

History 19SGb 

cf   Mark,   The   Gospel 

according  to 1987h  (Farmer) 

Name  and  family 198Gb 

Reunion  with  Paul. .  .  .  1987" 
Market,  Marketplace  .  .  .  199ob  (Raffety) 

cf  Appii  Forum 209a  (Allen) 

cf  Traffic 3004b  (Raffety) 


Market,  Sheep 
Marmoth  (Meremot  ID. 
Maroth .... 
Marriage 


.2758" 
.  199(ia 
.  199(5" 
.  199l)b  (Eager; 


cf  Affinity.  .  .GG"  (\V.  W.  D;iviesj 

Betrothal.  .  .  .1997'' 

Cere-monies 199X1 

Divorce 1999' 

cf  Divorce 8(i3b      (\V.      \V.      Davies;: 

Sli.")"  (^Caverno.) 

Hebrew  customs 199Gb 

cf  Heir 13(59"  (Easton) 

Importance  of 1997" 

cf  Of  Isaac.  .  .  .  .1-194"  (Iioy.li 

Jesus'  use  of 1999" 

cf  Lcvirate  Marriage.  ..r)2(ia  (Hirscli.) 

Matriarchal  ideas 1997b 

Origins  of 199G1* 

Polygamy 1998";   2410"  (Caverno) 

Purchase  of  wife 1997' 

cf  Spouse 28-1  ti1' 

cf    Stranger    and    So- 

journer  (in  OT'    .  .  .2S('>.">;'  (Wiener) 

Supper 1998" 

cf  Veil 3047"  (Easton) 

cf  Woman 3101"  i  Prattj 

Marrow 19991'  (Luering) 

Marscna 19991' 

Marsh 2000"  (Eager; 

Mars'  Hill 

cf  Areopagus 238b  (Harry) 

Marshal 2000"  (Eager; 

Mart 

cf     Market.,     Market- 
place  1995b  (Raffety) 

Martha 2000"  (Korr) 

cf  Mary 200.")''  (Sweet) 

Martyr 2000b 

Marvel,  Marvelous 2001"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Mary  (name) 2001"  (Sweet; 

cf  Miriam 200(5"  (Lees) 

Name    and    identifica- 
tion  2001" 

The    Maries   of    the 

NT 2001" 

Problems 200  lb 

cf  Simon 279.')"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Mary  (of  Bethany) 20041'  (Sweet 

Anointing  of  Jesus.  .  .  .2001'' 

Attack  on  Luke's  nar- 
rative  200  41' 

Character 200r>>> 

Evidence  compared  .  .  .  200")" 

Mary  and  Martha.  .  .  .200.r)'> 
Mary  (wife  of  Clopas). .  .2001'' 

cf  Alphaeus 100"  (Fortune) 

Mother  of  James  and 
Joses 200(5" 

Mother  of  John  Mark  200Gb 

cf  Mark,  John 198G1'  (Farmer) 

Mary  (Magdalene) 2003b  (Sweet) 

cf  Demon,  Demoniac  .  827b  (Sweet) 


GEXEHAL  INDEX 


Mary  (Magdalene) — conlinni'd 

Her  malady 2004" 

Not  the  sinful  woman. 2003b 

Mary  (the  other) 2001"  (Sweet) 

Mary  (of  Rome) 2()01b 

Mary  (Virgin) 2()01'>  (SweeH 

('ana  narrative 2002" 

In  doctrine  and  tradi- 
tion   2003" 

cf     Immaculate     Con- 
ception  145G1'  (Sweet) 

Infancy  narratives.  .  .  .2001'' 

Jesus  and 2002'- 

ef  Jesus  Christ 1G331'  (OrrJ 

Mary's  children 2003" 

Mary  in  the  Christian 
community 20021' 

Mary  at  the  cross 2002b 

cf  Perpetual  Virginity . 519b  (Jacobs) 

Roman  Catholic'  views  2003" 

cf  Virgin-birth  of  Jesus 

Christ 3().")41>  (Sweet) 

Mary,  The  Passing  of 

cf  Apocryphal  C.ospels  19.">:'  1 1  lutcliisoii) 
Masaloth 

cf  Mesaloth 2037'' 

Maschil 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of .  .  .  .2  1ST"  (Sampey) 

Mash  (Meshech) 200G1'  (Orr) 

Mashal 200(1'' 

cf  Mishal 20GGb 

Masias 2<)0(>!> 

Masman  (Maasmas)  ....  104G" 
Mason 2007" 

cf  Architecture 231"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Building 527"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Fortification 113*"  (Nicol) 

cf  C.ebal 1180"  (Porter. 

cf  House 143  l'>  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Masorah 

cf  Text  of  theOT 2963"  (Weir) 

Maspha 2007' 

cf  Mi/pali,  Mizpeh 20GS"  (Ewing) 

Masrekah...  ....2007" 

Massa ...2007" 

Massacre    of    the    Inno- 
cents   1471"  (Sweet  > 

Massah  and  Meribah. .  .  .2007"  (Ewing) 

cf  Rephidim 25GO"  (Ewing  i 

cf  Sinai  (Iloreb) 2S021'  (Condor; 

Massias  (Maaseiah)  .  .  .  .2007'' 
Mast 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .  27751'  (Nicol) 
Master 2007''  (W.  L.  Walker; 

cf  Assemblies,  Masters 

of 2S8b  (S.  E.  Hunter) 

cf  Rabboni 2522" 

Mastery 2008"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Mastic,  Mastick 2008"  (Ewing) 

Mathanias  (Apoc) 

cf  Matthanias. .          ..2009" 


Mathelas  (Maaseiali)  .  .  .2008a 
Mathusala 2008a 

cf  Methuselah 2045" 

Matred 2008" 

Matri 2008a 

Matriarchal  Customs 

cf  Marriage 1997b  (Eager) 

Mat  rites 2008" 

Mattan 200S" 

Mattanah    .  2008"  (Ewing) 

Mattaniah 2008b  (Wallace) 

cf  Mamnitanemus .  .  .  .1973" 

cf  Matthanias 2009" 

Mattaniah  (Othonias).  .  .2(K)8>> 

Mattatha 2008b 

Mattathah 

cf  Mattattah 2009" 

Matt  athias 2()08b        (Angus) ; 

(Prat  t) 

cf  Asmoneans 283"  (Dosker) 

cf  Maccabaeus 194Gb  (Hutchison) 

Mattathias  (Mattattah)  .2009" 
Matt  athias    the    Macca- 

bee 283b  (Dosker) 

Mattattah  (Mattathias)  .2009" 

cf  Matthias 2012"  (Kerr) 

Mattenai 2009" 

cf  Mamnitanemus.  .  .  .1973" 

Matter 2009"  (Breslich) 

Mat  than 2009" 

cf  Mat  that 2009" 

Matthanias 2009" 

cf  Mattaniah 20081'  (Wallace) 

Mat  that 2009" 

cf  Matthan 2009" 

Matt  how,  the  Apostle  .  .  .2009"  (Schodde) 

Matthew's  Bible 918b  (Hutchison) 

Matthew,  The  Gosp;-l  of  2009b  (Schodde) 

Authorship 2010" 

cf  Canon  of  XT 5G3"  (Riggs) 

Canonicity 2010" 

Contents     and      char- 
acter  201 Ob 

Date 2012" 

cf  Gospel  according  to 

the  Hebrews 19Gb  (Hutchison) 

cf  Gospels,  The  Synop- 
tic  1281"  (Iverach) 

Integrity  and  unity.  .  .2009'' 

Jews,  written  for 2011" 

cf  Levi  (general) 18G81' 

Literary  problems  of.  .2011'' 

cf      Literature,      Sub- 

apos 1901"  (Cowan) 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of. .  .  .1987b  (Fanner) 

Purpose 2011" 

cf  Quotations  from  the 

OT 2515b  (Sweet) 

Relation  to  Greek  and 
Aramaic  Gospels..  .  .2010" 

Relation  to  Mark  and 
Luke..  ..2011b 


158" 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3311 


Matthias 

of  Andrew .  . 

cf  Nathanael. 
Mattithiah.  . 

of  Mazitias  . 
Mattock 

cf  Tools .  . 


.  .2012a  (Kerr) 

.  .  131"  (Kcrrj 
.2121"  (Kcrr) 

.  .2012''  (Wallace) 
.2013" 

.  .2012'' 

.  .299S>>  (Eastouj 


Maul .  .  .2012'' 

Mauzzim 2012*'  (Wallace) 

Maw 2013"  (Luering) 

Mazitias 2013" 

cf  Mattithiah 20121'  (Wallace) 

Mazzaloth 

cf  Astrology.  .            .  .  .29Sh  (Maunder) 
Mazzaroth 2()13:i 

cf  Astronomy 30()h  (Maunder) 

Mazzebah 

cf  Pillar 23981'  (Orr) 

Meadow 2013"  (Day) 

cf  Plain 2400b  (Day) 

cf  Reed 2544"  (Masterman) 

Meah 

cf  Hammeah 1325''  (Masterman) 

Meal 20131' 

cf  Food 1122"  (Eager) 

Meal  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 2643b  (Reeve) 

Meals,  Meal-time 2013''  (Eager) 

cf  Banquet 3S4b  (Eager) 

cf  Bread 514b  (Eager) 

Cereals 20131' 

Customs  at 2015" 

cf  Dress S75h  (Eager) 

cf  Food 1121''  (Eager) 

Frequency 20141' 

cf  Leaven 1862"  (Eager) 

cf  Lord's  Supper 19211'  (Gurnmey) 

Meat 2014" 

cf  Oil 21821'  (Patch) 

Posture  at 2015" 

Preparation  of  food  .  .  .2013'' 

Primitive  customs.  .  .  .2013b 

Sabbath  eating 2015" 

Time  of  eating 20141' 

Vegetables 2014" 

Mean 20151'  (Breslich) 

Meani  (Maani) 1945b;  2()l(i" 

Mearah 2010" 

Measure,  Measures 2016"  (Porter) 

cf  Mete 2044b  (Porter) 

Measuring  Line 2016"  (Porter) 

cf  Line 1894"  (Orr) 

of  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Measuring  Reed 2016b 

cf  Cubit 765"  (Porter) 

Meat 2016b 

cf  Meals 2014"  (Eager) 

Meat  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 2643b  (Reeve) 

Mebunnai 2016b  (Wallace) 

Mecca.  .  .  .218b  (Weir) 


Mecca  Balsam  .381"  (Macalister) 

Mccherathite .  .  .  .2016b 

Meconah .2016b 

Medaba  (Medeba) 2016'' 

Mcdad .  .2016''  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Medan .  .2010b 

Medeba  (Medaba) 2016b;  2017"  (Ewing) 

Medes 2017"  (Tisdall) 

Biblical  references  to.  .2017" 

Conclusion 20251' 

History    .  .  .2017" 

Racial  connections. .  .  .2017" 

Media 2018"  (Tisdall) 

Median 

of  Darius 788"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Media 2018"  (Tisdall) 

Mediation,  Mediator   .  .  .2018"  (Edwards) 

cf  Atonement 321"  (Carver) 

Introductory 2018b 

Principle    of    media- 
tion  201 8b 

Terms  used 2018b 

cf  Messiah 2039"  (Crichton) 

In  NT 2021b 

Christ  as  King 2021b 

Christ  as  Priest 2021b 

Christ  as  Prophet..  .2021b 
Christ  as  Redeemer. 2021b 

Fourth  Gospel 2025" 

Hebrews,  Epistle  to  2024b 
Johannine  Epistles .  .  2025b 

Lord's  Supper 2022" 

Paul's  teachings 2023a 

Primitive      apostolic 

teaching 2022b 

Speeches  and  letters. 2022b 
Synoptic  Gospels.  .  .2021b 

InOT 2019" 

Agents,  angels 2020b 

Agents,  Wisdom   ...2021" 

King,  the 2020b 

Messiah,  the 20201' 

Negative  teaching  .  .2019" 
Positive  teaching.  .  .2019" 
Priestly  mediation.  .2()19b 
Prophetic  period. .  .  .2019'' 
Sacrificial  system  .  .  .2020" 
Suffering  Servant .  .  ,2020b 

cf  Philo  Judaeus 2380a  (Wenley) 

of  Priests  and  Levites.  2446b  (Wiener) 

cf  Prophets 2459b  (Orelli) 

of  Propitiation 2467a  (Carver) 

cf  Ransom 2530"  (M'Caig) 

of  Reconciliation 2536"  (M'Caig) 

cf  Sacrifice,  NT.  :  ...  .2651"  (Williams) 

cf  Salvation 2665"  (Easton) 

Semi  and  non-canonical 

literature 202  la 

Logos  idea 2021" 

cf  Servant  of  Jehovah .  2739a  (Hough) 

cf  Wisdom 3089*  (Easton) 

Medicine.  .  .  ,2026a  (Macalister) 


3312 


GENERAL  INDEX 


.202(1"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.2026b  (Heidel) 
.2707b  (Ewing) 
.  2027" 
. 2028" 


i  Ewing) 


Meditation 

Mediterranean  Sea. 

cf  Sea,  The  Great 
Meedda  (Meeda)    . 

cf  Mehida 

Meek 

cf  Quiet 2515b  (M.  O.  Evans  i 

Meekness 2027"  (W.  L.  Walkei 

Meet 2027b  (W.  L.  Walkei 

Megiddo  .  .  ,  ....  2027b  (Ewing) 

cf   Armageddon    (Har- 

magedon) 1340a  (Ewing) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent. 

Exploration 2229"  (Cobern) 

cf  Pharaoh-necoh  .  .    .  .23(50"  (Nicol) 
Mehetabel,  Mehetabeel.   2028" 
Mehida  (Meedda).  .       .  .2028' 

Mehir 2028" 

Meholathite 2028" 

cf  Abel-meholah (5"  (Beechef 

Mehujael 2028" 

Mehuman 202s  < 

Mchunim  (Meunim) 

cf  Maon 1984" 

Me  jargon 

cf  Makaz 19(58" 

Mc-jarkon 2028" 

Mekonah 

cf  Meconah 20  Hi1' 

Melatiah 2028b 

Melchi 202S'- 

Melchiah  (Malchialn..  .  .2028'' 

cf  Malchijah 1971" 

Melchias..  .  .2028b 

cf  Malchijah 1971"  (Wallace) 

Melchiel 202S>> 

Melchishua 

cf  Malchishua 1971' 

Melchizedek,      Mclchise- 

dec 2028b  (Roberts) 

cf  Archaeological  The- 
ory of 230"  (Kyle; 

cf  Jerusalem l(513b  (Masterman) 

Name  and  references.  .2028'' 

Reference  to,  in  He- 
brews    ...  20281' 

Reference  to,  in  Psalm 
110  4  2028'- 

Tell    el-Amarna    testi- 
mony   2029" 

cf     Tell     el-Amarna 

Tablets 2928b  (Ivy lei 

Melea 20291' 

Melech 2029b 

Melicu  (Malluchi) 2029b 

Melita 2029b  (Allen; 

cf  Publius 2501"  (Kerr; 

Melody 2029b 

cf  Music 2097"  (Millar) 

Melons 2030a 

Melzar 2030a  (R.  D.  Wilson; 

cf  Steward 2853b  (Reeve; 


Mem 

cf  Alphabet 
Member 

cf  Body .  . 


(Wallac 


cf  Concision 

cf  Eunuch 

Memeroth  (Meraioth; .  . 
Memmius,  Quintus.  .  .  . 

cf  Manius 

Memorial,  Memory  .  .  .  . 

cf  Name 

Memphis 

Excavations 

Founders 

Name 

cf  Noph 

Political  position  .  .  .  . 

Mcmucan 

Menaen 

cf  Herod  (Antipas;. 
Menahem 

Accession  and  reign 

Chronological        prob 
lems 

cf  Chronology  of  OT  . 

Early  acts 

cf  Jehu 

cf  Pekahiah 

Relations  with  Assyria 
Menahem  (Manaen)  .  .  . 
Menan  (Menna)  . 
Mene,      Mene,     Tekel 

Vpharsin 

Menelaus 

Menestheus 

cf  Apollonius 

Meni 

cf  Divination 

cf  Gad,  God  of  (!oo< 

Luck 

Menna  (Menan) 

Menuhah 

cf  Manahath 

Menuhoth 

cf        Hatsi-hammenu- 
choth 

cf  Manahath 

Meonenim,  Oak  of 

cf  Augurs'  Oak 

cf  Moreh,  Hill  of 

cf  Plain  of  the  Pillar.  . 

Meonothai 

Mephaath 

Mephibosheth 

cf  Armoni 

cf  Ish-bosheth 

cf  Merib-baal 

cf  Rizpah 

Merab 

cf  Rizpah 

Meraiah. . 


.2030" 

.  103b  (Richardson  i 

.2030a  (Lueringj 

.  J91b    (Hirsch;         Marais; 

Pratt) 
.696b 

.1037"  (Eager- 
. 2030b 

.2030b  (Angus 
.  19S2"  (Angus; 
.2()30b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

2112"  (W.  L.  Wnlker; 
.2030''  (Petrie) 
.2031" 
.2031" 

2030' ' 

2155' 

2031' 

20311' 

.  13S1'1  (Dosker; 

203  lb  (Caldecotl  > 
2031'' 

2032" 

.(53.")"  (Mack 
,2031b 

158(5"  (Caldecolt  i 
2290"  (Caldecotl) 
203 11' 

.197(5''  (On-1! 
2033" 

.2032"  (]{.  1).  ^'ilsoni 
20321'  (Angus 
2033" 

200''  (Hutchison 
2033" 

S(iO"  (T.  \\'.  Da  vies) 
I 

11  .">2"  (Stearns1 
2033" 
2033" 

197(5''  (Ewing) 
2033"  (Wallace] 

1343b 

197G1'  (Ewing 

20331' 

331"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

20S2"  (Kwing; 

24071'  (Ewing; 

20331' 

20331' 

2033b  (Wallace; 

251" 

1508b  (Brcslich) 

2036b  (Wallace) 

2595a  (Wallace) 

2034"  (Wallace) 

2595"  (Wallace) 

2034b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Meraioth  (Memeroth). .  .2030'' 

Meran 
of  Merran.  .  .  .2037''  (Ewingj 

Mcrari .2034''  (Wallace  i 

cf  Mcrarites 2035" 

Mcrarites .  .  .  .  2035" 

cf  Mcrari 20341'  (Wallace) 

Merathaim    .  .  .2035" 

Merchandise 2035"  (Raffety) 

cf  Traffic 3004b  (Raffety) 

cf  Wares.  .  .  .    .3072"  (Raffety) 

Merchant,  Merchantman 

cf  Commerce GS7b  (Pollard) 

cf  Merchandise 2035"  (RafTcty) 

cf  Trade 3002"  (East on) 

Mercury,  Mercurius 2035"  (M.  ().  Evans i 

cf  Greece,  Religion  in.  1297"  (Fairbanks 

cf  Hermes 1 377b 

cf  Jupiter 17S1"  (Easton) 

Mercy,  Merciful 2035"  (W.  L.  Walker  i 

cf  Kindness 1799"  (W.  L.  Walker: 

cf  Lovingkindness .  .  .  .  1934"  (W.  L.  Walker, 
cf  Pity 2402b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Mercy-seat,  The 203Ga  (Caldecott) 

cf  Altar 106b  (Wiener) 

cf  Ark  of  Covenant  .  .  .242b  (Lotz) 
cf  Atonement,  Day  of  .324b  (Moller) 

cf  Christianity 627b  (Orr) 

cf  Holy  of  Holies 1405"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Propitiation 2467a  (Carver) 

cf  Tabernacle 2S90b  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Mered 2036"  (Wallace) 

cf  Bithiah 483"  (Hirsch 

Meremoth,         Meraioth, 

Memeroth 2036a  (Wallace; 

cf  Marmoth 1996" 

cf  Uriah,  Urijah 3040"  (Easton) 

Meribah 

cf   Massah  and   Meri- 
bah   2007"  (Ewing) 

cf  Rephidim 2560a  (Ewingj 

cf  Sinai  (Horeb) 2S02b  (Conder) 

Meribath-kadesh,     Meri- 

both-kadesh 2036b 

cf  Massah  and  Meribah  2007"  (Ewing j 

Merib-baal 2036h  (Wallace) 

cf  Mepliibosheth 2033h  (Wallace) 

Merodach 2036b 

Merodach-baladan 2036b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

cf  Babylonia  and  As- 
syria, Religion  of ...  368b  (Rogers) 

cf  Baladan 379b  (R,  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Nimrod 2147b  (Mack) 

Merom,  Waters  of 2037a  (Wright) 

cf  Hazor 1347b  (Ewing! 

cf  Jordan  Valley 1735b  (Wright) 

Meronothito 2037a 

Meroz 2037b  (Ewing) 

Merran 2037b  (Ewing) 

Meruth 

cf  Emmeruth.  .  .  .941" 


Mesaloth 2037b 

Mesech 

cf  Mcshech 2038"  (Wallace) 

Mesha : 2037b  (Ewing) 

cf  Jehonun 15SOb  (Mosiman) 

cf  Moab.  .  .  .2071'  (Porter) 

cf  Moabite  Stone.  .    .  .2071''  (Sayce) 
Mcshach.  .  .2038"  (R.  D.  Wilson  i 

cf  Mishael.  .  .  .2000b 

cf  Shadrach 2746"  (R.  D.  Wilson; 

Meshech  (Mash).  .  .2006b  (Orr);    203X"   (Wal- 

lace) 

Meshelemiah 20381' 

cf  Shallum 2747"  (Umbach  i 

cf  Shelemiah 27581'  (Wolf) 

Meshezabcl 2038b 

Meshillemith 203S1' 

Meshillemoth 203Sb 

Meshobab 203S1' 

Meshullam 2038b  (Lees) 

cf  Mosollamus 2091 b 

cf  Olamus 21831' 

cf  Shallum 2747"  (Umbach) 

Meshullemcth 2039" 

cf  Meshullam 20381'  (Lees) 

Mesobaite 

cf  Mezobaite 2045" 

Mesopotamia 

cf  Aram 222" 

cf  Laban 1819"  (Boyd) 

Mess 2039a 

Messenger 2039"  (Brcslich) 

cf  Malachi 1969b  (Robinson) 

Messiah 2039"  (Crichton 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture (Jewish) 161b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Doctrine  of,  in  Fourth 

Gospel 17261'  (Iverach) 

cf  Eschatology  of  the 

OT 972"  (Orr) 

cf  Hope 1419b  (Easton) 

cf  Idea  of,  in  Synoptic 

Gospels 1284b  (Iverach) 

cf  Immanucl 1457b  (A.  W.  Evans) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1629b  (Orr) 

Meaning    and    use    of 

term 20391' 

cf  Mediation,     Media- 
tor  2018"  (Edwards) 

Messianic  hope 2039b 

New  Testament 20421' 

Christian  elements .  .  2043h 
Christian      transfor- 
mation  2043" 

Fulfilment  in  Jesus. .  2043b 
Jesus'     attitude    to- 
ward Messiahship.  2043" 
Jewish  conception.  ,2042b 

Son  of  Man 2043" 

Old  Testament 

In  Isaiah .  .  .  .  2040" 


3314 


GENERAL  1XDEX 


Messiah — contin  uei.1 
Old  Testament  -continued 
In  Jeremiah  and  Ezo- 

kiel 2040b 

Messianic  King 2040'' 

Prophetic  and  priest- 
ly relations 20401- 

llise   of   apocalyptic 

idea 20411' 

Servant  of  Jehovah.  2041" 
cf  Pauline  Theology. .  .2289"  (Easton) 

Pre-christian  age 20411' 

Apocalyptic        liter- 
ature  2042- 

Maccahean  times.  .  .2041'' 
Post-prophetic  age.  .20411' 

cf  Prophecy 2464b  (Orelli);  832h  (Gray) 

cf  Servant  of  Jehovah.  2739"  (Hough) 

cf  Son  of  God 2*27"  (Stalker) 

cf  Son  of  Man 2829b  (Stalker) 

cf  Zoroastrianism 3157"  (Easton) 

Messianic  Prophecy 
cf     Maccabees,    Books 

of 19491'  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Metal 2044*  (Mastennan) 

cf  Electrum 927h  (Fortune) 

cf  Stones,  Precious. .  .  .2856"  (Fletcher) 

Metallurgy 2044-  (Patch) 

cf  Refiner,  Refining.  .  .2545"  (Patch) 

Metals 2044-  (Patch) 

cf  Gold 1274-  (Patch) 

cf  Iron 1492-  (Patch) 

cf  Lead 1861"  (Patch) 

cf  Mine,  Mining 20561'  (Patch) 

Metal  Working 

cf  Crafts 734-  (Patch) 

cf  Mine,  Mining 2056b  (Patch*) 

Mete 20441'  (Porten 

cf  Measure,  Measures. 201(1-  (Porter) 
Meterus 

cf  Baiterus 378- 

Meteyard 2045- 

Metheg-ammah 2045-  (Porter) 

Mcthusael 

cf  Methushael 2045- 

Methuselah 2045";   139-  (Davis) 

Methushael 2045- 

Meunim 

cf  Maon 1984-  (E\ving) 

cf  Simeon 2793-  (Mastennan) 

Meuzal 2045' 

cf  Uzal 3042b  (Fultoni 

Me-zahab 2045- 

Mezarim  (North) 

cf  Astronomy 300h  (Maunder) 

Mezobaite 2045- 

Miamin 

cf  Mijamin 2051a 

cf  Miniamin 2057a 

Mibhar 2045a 

Mibsam 2045b 

Mibzar. ..  .  .2045b 


Mica  (Micha) 204ob 

cf  Micah 2040-  (Lees) 

cf  Micaiah 2047a  (Lees) 

Micah  (general) 2045b  (Lees) 

cf  Dan 781-  (Ewing) 

cf  Judges,  Book  of.  .  .  .1772"  (Geden) 

cf  Priesthood 2444-  (Moorehead) 

Micah,  Book  of 20  If,1'  (Orelli) 

Contents  of  prophecies  20461' 

Form  of  the  prophecies. 20401' 

Relation  to  Isaiah.  .  .  .2046b 
Micah  (prophet) 2046"  (Orelli) 

Name  and  person 2046- 

Timeof 2016- 

Micaiah 2047-  (Lees* 

cf  Maacah 1945"  (Ewing  i 

cf  Mica  (Micha) 20451' 

cf  Micah  (prophet).  .  .2046-  (Orelli) 
Mice 

cf  Mouse 20921'  (Day) 

Micha,  Michah 

cf  Mica 2045>> 

cf  Micah  (general).  .  .  .2015''  (Lees) 
Michael.  .  .2047''  (Lees) 

Reference  to,  in  Ep.  of 

Jude.  1770"  (Moorehead) 

Michah 

cf  Micah  (general  I .  .  .  .2045'"  (  Lees) 
Michaiah 

cf  Micaiah 2047-  (Lees) 

Michal 2048-  (Loos) 

Micheas  (Michaeasi 2048" 

Michmas..  .    .2048- 

cf  Macalon 1946" 

Michmash 204S-  diving) 

Camp  of  Saul 2048- 

cf  Geba 1180-  (Ewing) 

Identification 204  81' 

Later  notices 20481' 

cfSeno.li 2720-  (Ewing) 

Michmethah 2049- 

Michri 2049- 

Michtam 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of..  .  .2487"  (Sampey) 
Midday 2049- 

cf  Xoon,  Noonday.  .  .  .2155- 

Middin 2049" 

Middle  Wall 

cf  Partition 2253-  (Rutherfurd) 

Midian,  Midianites 2049"  (Ewing) 

cf  Defeat  of,  by  Gideon.  1227b  (Schenk) 

Historical  references.  .  2049b 

cf  Jethro 1G741'  (Crichton) 

Kenite  branch 2049h 

cf  Kenites 1792-  (Ewing) 

Modern  Arabs 20491' 

Origin 2049" 

Midianitish  Woman 2049b  (Lees) 

Midnight 2050-  (Porter) 

cf  Time 2981b  (Porter) 

Midrash 2050a;  685a  (Oko) 

cf  Commentary 687a  (M.  O.  Evans) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Midwife 2050"  (Macalistor) 

Migdal-eder 

cf  Eder 899"  (Mastorman) 

Migdal-el 2050" 

Migdal-gad.  .  .                 .  .2050b  (Mastorrnan) 
Migdol 2050b  (Condor) 

cf  Exodus,  The  .  .       .  .  1052"  (Cornier) 

cf  Shur 2782"  (Cornier) 

Migration 

Influence  on  family  .  .  .  HHMi1' 

Migron 2()f)lh  (Ewing) 

Mijainin  (Miamin) 20/5 1" 

cf  Minianiin 20/57" 

Mikloth 2051" 

Mikneiah 2051" 

Milalai 2051" 

Milcah 2051" 

Milcom  (Malcain) 

cf  Moloch 2074"  (Xicol) 

Mildew 20511-  (Masterman) 

cf  Blasting 4SG!t  (Patch) 

Mile 20511' 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Miletus 2051b  (Banks) 

cf  Samos 2674b  (Kinsella  i 

Milk 2051b  (N.  Isaacs) 

cf  Food 11231'  (Eager) 

Mill,  Millstone 2052"  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 77h  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager) 

Millennium    (Postmillen- 

nial  View) 

cf  Eschatology   of   the 

XT ' 979b  (Vos) 

Millennium      (Premillen- 

nial  View) 20521'  (Moorehead) 

cf  Parousia 2249"  (Easton) 

Teaching  of  apostles .  .  2054" 

Teaching  of  Jesus 2053" 

Millet 2055"  (Masterman);  1122" 

(Eager) 
Millo 2055"  (Masterman) 

Akra  site,  the 2055b 

Beth-millo 2055" 

cf  Jerusalem  Hills 1599b  (Masterman) 

cf   Jerusalem,    History 

of 1G131'  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem  Walls..  .  .1002''  (Masterman) 

OT  references 2055" 

cf  Solomon 2824"  (Weir) 

Millstone 

cf  Mill 2052"  (Patch) 

Mina 

cf  Maneh 1981"  (Porter) 

Mincing 20551' 

Mind 2056"  (Marais) 

Dianoia  and  nous 2056* 

Ethical  sense 2055:t 

Reference  in  Luke  10  27.2055'* 

Terms  used  not  precise  2056" 


Mine,  Mining 2056b  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Metals .  .  .2044"  (Patch) 

Minerals 

cf  Metals 2044"  (Patch) 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2856"  (Fletcher) 
Mingled    People    (Mixed 

Multitude) 2056b  (Easton) 

cf  Samaria,  City 2671"  (Ewing) 

cf  Samaria,  Country  .  . 26721'  ( Ewing) 

Minianiin 2057" 

cf  Mijamin 2051" 

Minish 2057" 

Ministry 2057"  (T.  M.  Lindsay) 

cf  Bishop 478b  (Dosker) 

cf  Church  ( iovernment  G53b  (Forrester) 

cf  Deacon 800"  (Hcidel) 

cf  Elder,  OT  and  XT  .  923b        (Stearns);         924a 

(Grant ) 
cf  Hands,  Imposition  of  1335"  (( )rr ) 

cf  Pastor 2258b 

cf  Pauline  Theology. .  .2292"  (Easton) 
Threefold        congrega- 
tional ministry 206()b 

Bishops  and  presby- 
ters  2061" 

Growth  of  orders       2061'1 
Insistence  on  organ- 
ization  20G01' 

Synods 2062" 

Two  different  kinds  of  2057b 

Apostles 2058a 

Local  ministry,  the.  2059a 
Origins  of  local  min- 
istry   2059b 

Prophetic  ministry .  .  2058a 

Prophets 2058b 

Use  of  the  word 2057" 

Minni 2062a 

Minnith 2062"  (Ewing) 

Minstrel 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

Mint 2062b 

Miphkad,  Gate  of 2062b 

cf  Jerusalem 1607a  (Masterman) 

Miracle 2062b  (Wace) 

Biblical  terms 2062b 

Ecclesiastical  miracles .  2065b 
Evidential  value  of ...  2004" 

In  the  Gospels 2063a 

cf  Jericho 1592"  (Wright) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1629"  (Orr) 

Laws  of  Nature  and.    .2063b 

Nature  of  miracle 2062b 

In  OT 2065" 

cf  Plagues  of  Egypt .  .  .2405b  (Kyle) 

cf  Red  Sea 2540b  (Wright) 

cf  Sign 2789a  (Stuart) 

In  works  of  grace  .  .  .  .  2065b 
Miracles,  Gift  of 

cf  Miracle 2062b  (Wace) 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts.  .     .  .2843"  (Lambert) 


3316 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Mirage.  .    . 

cf  Parched.  . 
Mire 

cf  Chalkstone 

cf  Clay 

cf  Marsh 
Miriam 

cf  Mary  .name 

cf  Moses    . 

Minnah 

Mirror 

cf  Looking-glass 

Misael  i  Apoe! 

Misaias  ;  Masias   

Mischief 

Misgab 

Mishael 

cf  Moshaeh 

Mishal.  . 

Misliam 

Misheal 

cf  Mishal.  . 

Mislima 

Mishmannah 

Mishna 

cf  Talmud 

Mishnoh 

cf  College 

cf  Jerusalem 

cf  Maktesh.  The.  . 
Mishor.  .  .  . 

cf  Plain 

Mishraites 

Mispar  (Mispereth  > .  .  . 
Misrephoth-maim 

cf  Ladder  of  Tyro. .  .  . 

cf  Zarephath 

Mist 

cf  Vapor 

Mistress 

Mite 

cf  Money 

Mithkah  (Mithrah  . 

cf   Wanderings   cf    I- 

rael 

Mithnite.  .  . 
Mit  lira 

cf      Persian      Heligiti 

(Ancient,) 

Mithradates          (Mithr 

dates) 

Mithredath.  . 

cf  Mithradates .  . 
Mitre 

cf  Priests  and  Levites 

Mitylene 

Mixed  Multitude 

cf  Mingled  People 

Mizar,  The  Hill 

Mizpah,  Mizpeh. 

cf  Ramah 

cf  Ramath-mizpeh .  .  . 


.2066"  (Joy) 
,2247h  ( Pat eh; 


.1919a 

2006" 
.  2()06b 
,2066b 
,2066b 
206Gb 

203S"    R.  D.  Wilson) 
2066h 
2066b 

2066b 
2066h 
2066b 


290on 
206Gb 
G74a 
1607" 
1969s 
.2067" 
2406b 
.2067" 
2067' 
2067" 
1821° 
.3132'' 
2067" 
,3046a 
,2067a 
20G71' 
.  2079" 
2067" 


(Strack 

Masterman  - 

iMasterman  i 
(Masterman  > 

I'Dav > 


(Porter) 
(Porter) 

(Ewing 

(Joy) 

(Day) 

('Porter.; 
(  Purler 


3064-  <  Condon 
20G7h 


2333h(Tisdall. 

.2067'' 
.2067' 
.  2067'" 

.2067b  (T.  Lewis , 
2452"  (Wieneri 
.2068a  (Harry.) 

.  2056b  (Easton ) 
206S"  (Ewing  i 

.  2068*  (Ewing . 

.2528"  (Ewinu: 
2529s1 


Mizpah,  Mizpeh — contin  ucd 

cf  Ramoth-gilead 2529a  (Ewing) 

cf  Watchtower 3074:l 

Mizpar  (Mispar) 2067a 

Mizraim 2069a  (Kyle) 

of  Africa GS11  (Pinches) 

cf  Egypt 906"  (Petrie) 


cf  Ham,  Land  of.    . 

cf  Table  of  Nations 

Mizzah 

Mnason 

Moab,  Moabitcs. .  .  . 


.  1324b  (Ewing) 
.2S9Sb  (Pinches) 
. 2069b 

.20G9b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 
.20G91'  (Porter) 


History 2070b 

cf  Jehoram l")SOh  (Mosiman) 

Land,  the 2069b 

of  Moabitess 2072b 

Peojjle.  the 2070b 

cf  Plain  of  Moab 2407" 

Religion.  .  .  .  .2070b 

Moabite  Stone.  .  .  .2071b  (Sayce);   SO  (Mosi- 

man ;  6()ll>  (Xieol) 

cf  Aha!) 7Sb  (Mosiman) 

Discovery 20711' 

Inscription 2()72:i 

of  Jehoram l.">SOb  (Mosiman 

Language  of  .  .  2()72:l 

of  Mesha  2038°  (Ewing > 

of     Palestine,      Recent 

Ex])loration 2224b  (Cobern  i 

Moabitess....  .  .2072b 

cf  Moab 2069b  (Porter) 

Moadiah 

of  Maadiah l'.)4o1' 

Moehmur,  The  Brook.  .  .20721' 

Muck.  Mocker.  Mocking  20721'  .\V.  I..  Walker) 

of  Laughing-stock 1S431' 

M.idad,    Hook    of    Eldad 

and  ...  ...  .  923b  (Fortune 

Moderately.  .  .2()73a  (,W.  L.  Walkerj 

Moderation 2073;1 

Modin  (Apoc        .  .  .2073:*    E\ving 

Home   of    the    Macca- 
bees  2073" 

Identifications 20731' 

of  Maccabaeus  .1946"  (Hutchison) 

Monument  at 2073'1 

Mo<>th  (ApocV  2073' 

cf  Noadiah 2153;1 

Moladah ...  .  .  2073'" 

of  Salt,  City  of.  .  ,2664b 

Mole 2074"  (Day) 

of  Chameleon •192li  (Day) 

of  Lizard..  .  1906"  (Day; 

of  Weasel 3076b  (Day) 

Molech,  Moloch.  .  .2074"  (Xicol.) 

cf  Fire 1112"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

of  Gehenna 11  S3"  (Vos) 

of  Gods 1271"  (Reeve) 

of  Malcam 1971" 

Name 2074" 

Nature  of  the  worship  2075a 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3317 


Moloch,  Moloch  —  continued 

Mooli  (Apoc;  .  .  .                20Sla 

Origin  of  the  worship.  .  2075b 
OT  references  2074h 

Moon  2081a  (Schenk/ 
cf  Astrology      .               29ob  (Maunder; 

In  the  prophets.  .          2074h 

cf  Astronomy                  300b  (Maunder) 

Moli 

cf  Crescents                     74  4b 

of  Mooli                           2081  ' 

Moon,  New 

Molid  20751' 

cf  Astronomy                  300b  (Maunder) 

Mollify  .  .  207ob 

cf  Divination  Mj(Ja  (T.  W   Davies) 

Moloch  (Moleclu.             .207.?';  2074* 
cf  Astrology  295b  (MaunderJ 
cf  Semites,  Semitic  Re- 

cf Feasts  and  Fasts      .  1103a  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 
cf  Sun,  Smiting  by.  .  .  ,2s70b  (Macalisterj 
Moossias  (Apoc)                  20Sl!j 

ligion  2717:i  (Mack) 

Moph 

Molten  Image 

cf  Memphis                     2030b  (Pelrie) 

cf  Image                          1450a  (Edwards) 

Morality 

Molten  Sea                         >:>70Sa  (Caldecott) 

cf  Ethics  1013a  (Alexander) 

cf  Laver                             Is43b  (Caldecott) 

Morashtite  20Mb 

cf  Ledge                          lSG4b 

cf  Moresheth-gath.  .  .  .20S2a  (Porter) 

Mordecai                              20Slb  (I'rquhart 

Moment    .                          2()7G;1  (Porter) 

Moreh,  Hill  of  .  .              .  .20S2a  (Ewing) 

cf  Gibeath                         122ob  (Ewing. 

Money  207(>a  (Porter) 

Moreh,  Oak  of.               .  .2082a  (Ewmg. 

Coined  money  207G1' 
Coins  of  various  kings  2()77a 

cf  Meonenim.  Oak  of.  .  2033b 
Moresheth-gath  20S2a  (Porter) 
cf  Morashtite                  -MM1' 

Maccabean  coins  207^ 
Material  and  form  .  .  .  .2076-' 
cf  Mile    2067b  (Porter) 
cf  Penny  229Sa 
cf  Piece  of  Gold  2394b 
cf  Piece  of  Silver  2395'  (Porter) 
Roman  coins                  2079a 

Moriah,  Hill  of 
cf  Gerixim,  Mount.  .  .  .  12Lv  (Ewmg 
cf  Jerusalem  Hills  1599b  (Masterman) 
Moriah,  Land  of  2082b  (Ewing) 
Morning  2082b  (Porter) 
cf  Betimes  454a  (Kinsolla 
cf  Hind  of  the  Morn- 

pf SlipL-nl                                     '^7^"N;l   fPnrtpr) 

ing,  The  1393°  CM.  <  >.  Evans) 

cf  Stater                           0S50a 

Morning  Watch  20V! 

cf  Talent    2904a  (Porter 

cf  Watch  3074a  (Porter  • 

cf  Time                             °9Slb  (Porter) 

Morning,  Wings  of 

cf  Wedge  of  Gold  3078b  >  Porter 
cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures                              3079a  (Porter 

cf  Astronomy      300b  (.Maunder.) 
Morrow,  Tomorrow  2083a  (Porter) 
Morrow    after    the    Sab- 

cf Writing  3120b  (Richardson 

bath  20S3a  (Hirsch) 
Morsel  2083a 

Money-changers  20SOb  (Pollard 
cf  Table  2S98a  (Easton) 

cf  Sop  2s:;n 

Monev,  Current  20Sla  (Betteridu>' 

Mortal,  Mortality.  .       .  .20,^3 

Money,  Love  of  20Sla 

cf  Immortal,  Immortal- 

ity   .  .              .              145Sb  (On1. 

cf  Covetousness  733b  (\\  .  Evans 

Mortar.  .  .  .                         2083a  (Orr 

Money,  Sin  28Q2a 

cf  Brav                             514b  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Sin  Offering  2G44b  (Reeve 
Monogamy 
cf  Family  U  !<).">  ;    C;<vernoi 

cf  Pestle    .                    .  .2348b 
cf  Whitewash  30S3b 
Mortgage                             20S3b 

Monotheism 
cfJohannine  Theology  1701'    Law 
Monster 
cf  Dragon  S73a  ^Dav 

cf  Surety  2872a  (Reeve) 
Mortify  .  .20S3b  (Easton  > 
Moserah  .  .                        .  .  2083b 
Mo<eroth                              °083b 

cf  Sea  Monster              2707a  (Day) 

cf  \Vanderings  of  Israel  3064a  (Conder) 

Month                                 2081a  (Porter) 

Mo^es                                  °OS3b  (Kvle) 

cf  Astronomy  300b  (Maunder) 
cf  Calendar  541b  (Porter) 
cf  Time  29Slb  (Porter) 
Monthly  Prognostieaturs 
cf  Astrology  295b  (Maunder/ 
Monument 
cf  Vault.  .                    .  .304Gb 

cf  Aaron  .  .  1°  (Mack) 
of  Ark  of  Bulrushes      .242a  (Kyle) 
cf  Assumption  of  169a  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 
cf  Authorship  of  Deu- 
teronomy    83t')l>  (Robinson) 
cf  Book    of    the    Cove- 
nant                                   7^9b  ("Unclcl 

3318 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Moses — contin  nc<l 

cf  Brazen  Serpent  ( Xe- 

hushtan) 2132"  (Longacre) 

cf  Burning  Bush 532b  (Kyle) 

of  Caleb .541"  (Margolis) 

cf  Calf,  Golden 298"  (Maunder) 

cf   Claimed    as   author 

of  Genesis 1212a  (Moller) 

C  o  m  m  i  s  s  i  o  n  e  d        as 
leader 2085" 

Conflict  with  the  Pha- 
raohs   20X5b 

Crossing  the  sea 20XOh 

cf  Deuteronomy S3")1'  (Robinson) 

Efforts  at  deliverance  .  20S V' 

Exodus,  the 20X0" 

cf  Exodus,   The.  .  .  .  1052"  (Condor) 

Faith  of 20XX" 

Final  acts 20XX" 

Genealogy 20s  1- 

Infancy  and  youth. .  .  .20X4" 

cf  Intercessions  of.  ...  14Xf>"  (Bevan) 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .  . 1534b  (Orelli) 

cf  Joshua  (son  of  Xun) .  1744"  (Geden) 

Journey  to  Canaan  .  . .20XX" 

Lawgiver 2090" 

Law  received 20X7" 

cf  Leadership  of  Israel.  151 5"  (Orelli; 

cf  Leviticus 1X70"  (Mollen 

cf  Manna 19X2"  (Masterman) 

cf  Miriam 2066"  (Lees) 

cf  Moses  and  IJammu- 

rabi 1331b  (Ungnadj 

Moses,  Law  of 20X91' 

cf  Xumbers,  Book  of.  .2169"  (Whitelaw) 

Obscurity   of    doctrine 
of  resurrection 2089b 

Passover,  the 2085b 

cf  Pentateuch 2298"  (Wiener.) 

As  prophet 2091" 

cf  Punishment  of  Korah  lX16b  (Beecher) 

cf  Quail 2512"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Refugee  in  Midian.  .    .2084b 

cf  Sinai 2802b  (Cornier 

Special  providences.  .  .2087" 

Tabernacle  made 2087b 

cf  Tell  el-Amarna  Tab- 
lets   2928"  (Kyle) 

As  toiler 2088b 

Traditions  regarding.  .2089" 

Unity  of  Pentateuch  .  .  20S9b 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  3064"  (Condor) 

Work  and  character. .  .  208Sb 
Moses,  Assumption  of 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture. .  .  .  .16lb   (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

Moses,  Song  of 2091"  (Orr) 

Mosollamon 

cf  Mosollamus  (Apoc)  2091b 

Mosollamus  (Apoc) 2091b 

Most  High,  Most  Holy 

cf  God,  Names  of 1266b;  1267"  (Mack  > 


Mote 

Moth 

cf  Insects 

cf  Worm 

Mother  . 

cf  Family 

Mother-in-Law 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily.. 


209  lb 

209 lb  (Day) 
1473"  (Day) 
3109"  (Day) 
2092"  (Dusker) 
1095b  (Caverno) 


Motion 

Mound 

cf  Siege 

Mount,  Mountain 

cf  High  Place 

cf  Hill,  Mount,  Moun 

tain 

Mount    of     the     Ainale- 

kites 

cf  Amalekites 

Mount  of  the  Amorites  . 

cf  Amorites 

Mount  of  Congregation 

The 

Mount  of  Corruption 

cf  Olives,  Mount  of .  . 

Mount  Ephraim 

Mount  Ilalak    . 

Mount  of  Olives 

cf  Jerusalem 

Mount  Seir 

cf  Simeon 

Mount  of  Sodom 

Mount  of  the  Valley.  .  . 
Mourning 

cf  Burial 

cf  Grief 

Mouse,  Mice 

Mouth 

cf  Lip 

cf  Tongue 

Mowing,  Mown  Grass. .  . 

cf  Harvest 

cf  Reaping 

Moza 

Mozah 

Muffler 

cf  Dress 

cf  Veil 

Mulberry     Trees,      Mul- 
berry   

cf  Acacia 

cf  Food 

cf  Poplar 

cf  Sycamine 

Mulcted 

Mule 

Multitude,  Mixed 

cf  Mingled  People  . 
Munition 

cf  Siege 


2.->f)ii"     (N. 

Isaacs) 
20921'  (Enst 


E.     D. 


1390"  (Easton) 
1392b  (Day) 

2092b 

112b  (Porter) 
2092b 

119"  (Sayce) 


21X5b  (Masterman) 
,963b 

1322"  (Ewing) 
21X:>b  (Masterman) 
159X1'  (Masterman) 

2794"  (Masterman) 
SOXb  (Wright) 
2092b 

.529"  (Eager) 

1305b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

20921'  (Day) 

2093"  (Luering) 

1X90"  (Luering) 

2994b  (Easton) 

2093"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

1341b  (Patch) 

2534"  (Patch) 

2093b 

2093b 

20931' 

X75b  (Eager) 

3047"  (Easton) 

2093b  (Masterman) 
27"  (Masterman) 
1123"  (Eager) 
2421b  (Masterman) 
2876a  (Masterman) 
2093b 
2093b  (Day) 

2050b  (Easton) 
2780"  (Xicol) 


GEXEKAL 1XDEX 


Muppim 2094" 

cf  Shephupharn 2764a 

cf  Shuppim 2782" 

Murder 2094-  (Hirsch) 

cf  God 12721'  (Brcslich) 

cf  Law  in  NT 1845"  (M'Caig) 

cf  Manslaughter 19S3b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Manslayer 19831'  (Hirschj 

Murderers.  .  .  .2091-  (Xicol) 


.2SS:l  (S.  F.  Hunter) 
.2091''  (T.  Lewis) 
.20941'  (Macalister) 
.  20941' 
.  20941' 


cf  Assassins 

Murmur,  Murmurings. 

Murrain 

Muse,  Musing 

Mushi 

Music 2()94'>  (Millar) 

cfAsaph 2G2>>  (Millar) 

Emotional  range 2095" 

cf  Horn 1122-  (East  on; 

cf  Hymn 1445"  (Millar) 

Illustrations,  mural.  .  .209.V' 

Importance  of 2095" 

Instruments 209Gb 

cf     Instruments     of 
Music 1484" 

cf  Lute 1942" 

cf  Melody 2029b 

Musical  theory 2096- 

Percussion  instruments2101a 

Place  in  social  life ....  2095- 

Placc  in  worship 2095b 

cf  Singers,  Singing.  .  .  .2S04!>  (Millar) 

Stringed  instruments .  .  2097- 

cf  Viol 3051- 

Wind  instruments ....  20991' 
Musical  Instruments.  .  .  .2101'' 
Musician,  Chief 

cfAsaph 262b  (Millar) 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of. .  .  .2487-  (Sampey) 

Mustard 2101b  (Masterman);   1  124" 

(Eager) 
Muth-labben .  .  ..2102" 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of. .  .  .2487-  (Sampey) 
Mutilation 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

Mutter 2102-  (Easton) 

cf  Peep 2295- 

Muzzle 2102-  (T.  Lewis) 

Myndus 21021'  (Banks) 

Myra 21021'  (Banks) 

cf  Patara 2262b  (Banks) 

Myrrh 2102b  (Masterman) 

cf  Balsam 381b  (Macalister) 

cf  Botany 505-  (Masterman; 

cf  Spice,  Spices 2S40a  (Masterman) 

cf  Stacte 2S47b 

Myrtle 2103b  (Masterman) 

cf  Esther,  Book  of  ....  1000-  (Urquhart ) 

cf  Thick  Trees 2972- 

Mysia 2103b  (Banks) 

Mysteries 

In  ancient  Greece 1303-  (Fairbanks i 


Mystery .  .2104"  (Edwards; 

Ancient      pagan      reli- 
gions  210!" 

Chief  features    of    pa- 
ganism   2101" 

XT  references 21041' 

OT  and  Apocrypha.  .  .2104'' 

Pagan    mysteries    and 
the  XT 21 051' 

cf  Paul.  ...  .  ,2275b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Seal 2709-  (Edwards; 

cf  Tongues,  Gil'l  of..  .  .299(1-  (Easton) 
Mythology 

cf  Babylonia  and  As- 
syria, Religion  of.  .  .3G8b  (Rogers) 

cf  Fable 10S5-  illusion 

cf  Greece,  Religion  in.  12971'  (Fairbanks) 

Xaam 210G" 

Xaamah  (persons) 210ti:i 

Xaamah  (place) 2  IOC" 

cf  Xaamathite 210C>> 

Xaaman 210(5"  (Loos) 

cf  Xaamite 210G1' 

Xaamathite 21()GI> 

cf  Xaamah  (place).  .  .  .210G" 
Xaamite 210G1' 

cf  Xaaman 210G1'  (LeesJ 

Xaarah  (person).  .  .21  Oil1' 

Xaarah  (place) 2107" 

Xaarai  (Paarai) .  .          ..2200- 
Xaaran  (Xaarath) 

cf  Xaarah  (place) 2107" 

Xaashon,  Naason,  Xaas- 

son 

cf  Xahshon 2109b 

Xaathus 2107- 

Xabaioth  (Xebaioth). ,  .  .212Gb  (Fulton.) 

Xabal 2107-  (W.  W.  Davies);    9b 

(Mack) 

Xabarias 2107- 

Xabataeans,     Xabathae- 

ans 21071'  (Angus);  218-  (Weir) 

Early  history 2107b 

Locality 2107b 

Relations      with      t  he 
Hcrods 2107b 

Relations  with  Rome.  .2107'' 

Rise  to  power 2107'1 

Xabathites  (Xabataeans)2l07b  (Angus) 
Xaboth 2108-  (Wallace) 

cf  Jezreel 1G77-  (Ewing) 

Xabu 371b  (Rogers) 

Xabuchodonosor 2108- 

cf  Xebuchadnezzar. .  .  .2127b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

XTachon  (Xacon) 2108-  (Masterman) 

Xachor 21 O*'1 

cf  Xahor 2109b 

Xacon,  Tlireshing    1  loor 

of 2108-  (Masterman) 

Xadab 21  OS1'  (Leesj 

Nadabath  .  .  .2108'- 


3320 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Xaggai....  2108b 

cf  Xogah  .  21 f)4> 

Nahalal 21  OS1' 

Xalialiel 2109" 

Nahallal  (NahaloL 

cf  Nahalal 21081' 

Naham 2109" 

Nahamani 2109" 

Xaharai,  Nahari 2109" 

Naliash 2109" 

cf  Jesse 1623" 

Xahath 2109b 

Nahbi 21091' 

Nahor 21091' 

Nahshon 21091' 

Nahum  (Xaum) 2122b; 

Nahum,  Book  of 21091 

Contents 21 10" 

Date 2110" 

Idea  of  God.  .  .  .  .2110' 

Integrity 2110l: 

Life  and  home  of  Na- 
hum   2109b 

Xame 21091' 

Style...  .2110'' 

Teaching  of .  .  .21101' 

Xaidus  (Benaiah)  .  .        .    2111" 

Xail .  .2111" 

cf  Pare  (the  nails.)  .  .  .  .224s1' 

Nain  .  .  21 II1' 

Naioth 21 1  lb 

Naked,  Nakedness 21111' 

cf  Text  of  the  OT.  .  .  .  29."1' 

Name .  .2112" 

Divine  name 2112" 

cf  God,  Names  of 12641' 

cf  Memorial 203()b 

cf  Names,  Proper 2113" 

NT  usage 21121' 

OT  usage 2112" 

Personal  character  in     2112" 
Relation  to  prayer.  .    .2113" 

Names  of  God 1264b  (Mack) 

Names,  Proper 21 13"  (  Davis) 

Characteristics  of  Bib- 
lical references  21 16" 
Allusions  linked  with 

names 21 16b 

Coincidence  and  con- 
trast  2117" 

Derivation 2116" 

Examples  in  Samuel 

and  Reuben 2116" 

Narrator's  interest .  .  2116" 
Prophetic      use      of 

names 2117b 

Punning  on  names    .  2116" 
Form  of  Semitic  names  21 1 3" 
Methods    of    abbre- 
viation   21 14" 

Transposition  of  the 
parts.  .  . .2114" 


(Ewing) 
(Ewing) 


(W.  W.  Davies. 
(Roberts! 


;  2109h 
(Eisclen) 


(Ewing) 

(Ewing) 

(Easton) 

(Weir) 

(W.  L.  Walker) 

(Mack) 

(W.  L.  Walker) 

(Davis) 


Names,  Proper — continued 

Form  of  Semitic  names — continued 
Types  of  names.  .  .  .2113a 

Vocalization 2113b 

cf  God,  Names  of 1264b  (Mack) 

cf  Name 2112"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Range  of  proper  names  2114b 
Geographical  names  2115b 

Personal  names 2114h 

Reasons     for     selec- 
tion  211")" 

Wide  range 2114h 

Xanaea  (Xanea) 2117b  (Angus, 

Naomi 2118"  (Roberts) 

Xaphath-dor 

cf  Dor 869b  (Porter) 

Xaphish 2118" 

cf  Nephish 2133h 

cf  Nephushesim 2134" 

Naphisi 2118" 

cf  Xaphish 2118" 

Xaphoth-dor 

cf  Dor 869b  (Porter) 

Xaphtali  (patriarch)  .  .  .  ,2118b  (Ewingi 

Xaphtali  (tribe) 2118b  (Ewing) 

Distinction 21 19" 

cf  Galilee.  .  .  .1163"  (Ewing) 

Location  in  Palestine.  .211 8h 
Modern     sites     and 

people 21 191' 

Xame  and  traditions.  .2118b 

cf  Xumbers,  Book  of.  .2163"  (Whit claw) 

Physical  features  of.  .  .2119" 

Position .  .  .211Sb 

Transfiguration, 

Mount  of 2119b;  300.V'  (Stuart) 

Xaphtali,  Mount 2119b 

Xaphthar  (Xephthar).  .  .21331'  (Angus 

Xaphtuhim 21191'  (Lees' 

Napkin 2119b 

cf  Dress 87f>b  (Eager) 

cf  Handkerchief 1334b 

Narcissus 2120"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Xard 

cf  Spikenard 2840b  (Masterman) 

Xasbas 2120"  (Angus) 

cf  Achiacharus 36" 

cf  Ainan 113 

Xasi  (Xasith) 2120" 

Xasith  (Neziah) 2141" 

Xasor 

cf  Hazor 1347b  (Ewing) 

Nathan  (general) 2121a  (Roberts) 

cf  Zabad 3128a  (Roberts) 

Nathan  (prophet) 2120a  (Roberts) 

David's  sin 2120b 

David's  temple  plans.  .2120" 
Solomon's  accession.  .  .21201' 

Xathanael  (apostle) 2121"  (Kerr) 

cf  Bartholomew 406b  (Kerr) 

cf  Matthias.  .  .  .2012a  (Kern 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Nathanael  (;ipost  lo) — contin  ual 

ef  Simon 2795"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf    Simon    the     Cana- 

nae;m,  or  Zealot  .  .  .  .2797''  (Korr) 

Nathanael  (general) 121 21" 

Xathanias 2121'- 

Nathaniel 

cf   James    (son    of   Al- 

phaeus) 1501"  (Korr) 

Nathan-melech 2121h 

Nations 

cf  Gentiles 121")"  (Porter) 

cf  Goiim 1273" 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2898b  (Pinches) 

cf  Tidal 2980"  (Pinches) 

cf    World,    Cosmologi- 

cal 3100"  (Orr) 

Nativity,         Apocryphal 

Gospel  of 198"  (Hutchison) 

Nativity  of  Alary,  Gospel 

of 

ef  Apocryphal  Gospels.  19.")"  (Hutchison) 

Natural,  Nature 21211'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Natural  Features 2122"  (Day) 

Arabah,  the 2122" 

ef  Champaign :>92>>  (Day) 

cf  Country 724"  (Day; 

cf  Desert 83  lb  (Day) 

Highlands 2122" 

cf  Hill,  Hill  Country.  .1392"  (Masterman) 

ef  Lowland 1934h  (Day) 

Negeb 2122b;       2130"      (Master- 
man) 

cf  Plain 240Gb  (Day) 

cf  Pool 2419b  (Day) 

cf  South 2S3S"  (Day; 

cf  Syria 2881"  (Christie 

Natural  History 

(if  Birds 475a  (Stratton- Porter) 

cf  Botany 505"  (Masterman) 

cf  Fish 1114b  (Day) 

cf  Insects 1473"  (Day) 

cf  Zoology 3155"  (Day) 

Natural  Man,  The 1974"  (Webb) 

Nature  (Natural) 2121b  (W.  L.  Walker 

Naught 

cf  Nought 215G1'  (W.  L.  Walker 

Naught,         Naughty, 

Naughtiness 21221' 

Naum  (Nahum) 21 091' 

Nave 

cf  Sea,  Molten 2708"  (Caldecottj 

Nave  (Nun) 2122b 

Navel 2122b  (Lueringi 

Navy 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 
Nazarene 2123"  (Dosker) 

Honorable  name 2123" 

Name  of  scorn 2123" 

Nazareth 21231'  (Ewing  i 

Jesus  at 2124" 

cf  Joseph 1741"  (Kerr) 


Nazareth — continued 

Later  history 2124" 

In  NT  only 21231' 

Position  and  features.  21231' 
Nazirito  (Nazarite) 2121"  (Christie) 

Antiquity  and  origin.  .2124'' 

Conditions  of  vow  .  .  .  .212")" 

In       early       Christian 
groups 21 251' 

Initiation  and  release. .2125" 

cf  Reohabites 2535h  (Mack) 

Samson  and  Samuel..  .2125'' 

cf  Separate 2721b 

cf  Separation 27211' 

cf  Vow 3058"  (Levertoff) 

Noah 2120" 

Xeapolis.  .  .  .2120"  (Tod) 

cf  Philip])!.  .  .  .23G9"  (Tod) 

cf  Samothrace 2(57")"  (Kinsella) 

Near,  Nigh 2120" 

Xoariah 21201' 

Nebai 

cf  Nobai 2154" 

Xebaioth 21201'  (Fulton) 

Xeballat 2120'' 

cf  Zeboim 3134"  (Mastorman) 

Nobat .  .2120'' 

cf  Jeroboam  1 1593"  (Mosiman) 

Xebo  (god) 212G1' 

of  Babylonia  and  As- 
syria, Religion  of ...  3GSb  (Rogers) 

Xebo  (place) 212Gb  (Ewing) 

Xebo,  Mount 2127"  (Ewing) 

cf  Nooma 2155" 

Nebuchadnezzar,     Nebu- 
chadrezzar..  .  .    .2127''  (R.  I).  Wilson) 

Buildings  of 2128>> 

And  Daniel 782"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Family  and  sources.  .  .2127'' 

of  Nabuchodonosor .  .  .2108" 

Name 21271' 

cf  Nebuchadrezzar ....  349b  (Clay) 

Political  history 2128" 

Traditions  regarding .  .  2128b 

Nebuchadrezzar 349b  (Clay) 

Nebuchadrezzar  1 3GGh  (Clay) 

Nebuchadrezzar  II 3G7b  (Clay) 

New  Babylonian  Em- 
pire under 572b  (Xicolj;    307b  (Clay) 

Nebusaradan 2129" 

Xebushazban         (Nebu- 

shasban) 2129- 

Necho,  Nechoh 

cf  Pharaoh-necoh 2300"  (Nicol) 

Xeck 2129"  (Luering) 

cf  Footstool 1 126"  (Doolan) 

Xecklace 21291' 

Xeco 2129b 

cf  Pharaoh-necoh 23GO'1  (Nicol; 

Necodan 

cf  Nekoda    .  .   2133- 


3322 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Necromancy 

cf  Astrology    29.")"  (Maunder') 

cf  Divination SCO-  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Witchcraft 3097-  (T.  W.  Davics) 

Nedabiah 2129b 

Needle 2129b  (Patch) 

cf  Camel 547b  (Day) 

Needlework 

cf  Embroidery 9401  (Patch) 

Needy 

cf  Poor 2420'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Necsing 2130-  (Easton) 

cf  Sneeze 2S19b 

Negeb 2130-  (Mastermaii) 

cf  Debir X13b  (.Mastennan) 

Description 2130- 

cf  Judaea 1757-  (Mastennan) 

Later  liistory 21.'3()h 

Meaning 2130- 

cf  Natural  Features.  .  .2122-  (Day) 

<>T  references 21 1!!)1' 

Prosperity  in  antiquity2130b 

cf  Rehoboth 2552-  (Mastennan  i 

cf  Simeon 2794-  (Mastennan) 

cf  Ziklag 31 19-  (Masterman) 

Neginali,  Xeginoth 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

cf  Psalms,  Hook  of .  .  .  24S7:l  (Sampey) 

Nehelamite 21 31-' 

Nehemiah.  ...  .  .2131"  (R.  D.  Wilson  > 

cf  Ezra-Xehemiah.  .  .  . 10S3-  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Family  of 2131:l 

(iovernor  of  Judah  ...  .21 3 11' 

cf  Israel,  History  of.  .  .  152r>b  (Orellr 

Position  at  court 2131" 

Reforms  and  labors  of  575b  (Xicol  - 

Services  to  Judah 21311' 

Xehemiah,  Book  of 

cf  Ezra-Nehemiah  .  .  .  . 10S3-  (H.  1).  Wilson; 

Nehemias 2132' 

Nehiloth 

cf  Music 20941-  (Millar) 

Nehum 2132- 

cf  Helium 25521'  (Stearns/ 

cf  Roimus 2597- 

Nehushta 2132- 

Nohushtan 2132-  (Longacrej 

llezekiah's  destruction 
of 2132- 

cf  Images 1453-  (Col)ern  i 

Sacred  serpent,  the.  .  .2132b 

cf  Serpent,  Fiery 2737a  (Day 

cf  Serpent  Worship  .  .  .  273Sb  (Orr) 

Neiel 2132h 

Neigh 2132b 

Neighbor. 2132b  (Edwards) 

Nekeb 2133- 

Nekoda .  .2133- 

cf  Nekodan 2133- 

cf  Noeba 21541' 

Nekodan 2133- 

cf  Nekoda 2133- 

cf  Noeba.  .  .  .21f>4b 


Nemuel 2133b 

Nemuelites 

cf  Nemuel 2133b 

Nephea 

cf  Music 20941'  (Millar) 

Nepheg 2133b 

Nephew 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily  2554-     (N.     and     E.     D. 

Isaacs) 

Xephi  (Neplithar) 2133b  (Angus) 

Nephilim 2133b  (Orr) 

cf  Sons  of  God 2835-  (Crichton) 

Nephis 

cf  Niphis 2153a 

Nephish,   Nephisim,   Ne- 

phishesim,  Ne])husim.  .2133h 

cf  Naphish 211Sa 

cf  Nephushesim 2134a 

Nephisim 

cf  Nephushesim 2134" 

Nephthai 

cf  Nephthar 2133h  (Angus) 

Nephthalim 2133h 

cf  Naphtali 21  IS1-  (Ewing) 

Nephthar  (Naphthari  .  .  .2133b  (Angus) 
Xephtoah 2134-  (Masterman) 

cfEleph..  ...927b 

cf  Etam 1010-  (Masterman) 

cf  Nctophah 2140-  (Masterman) 

Nephushesim 2134:i 

cf  Naphish 21  IS" 

cf  Nephish,  Nephisim  .2133h 

Ner 2134- 

Xereus 2134b 

Xergal 2134b 

cf   Babylonia  and  As- 
syria, Religion  of.     .371b  (Rogers) 

cf  Gods.  .                        .  .1271-  (Reeve) 
Xergal-sharezer 2134b 

cf  Rab-mag 2522-  (Cli])pingerj 

Xeri 2134b 

cf  Neriah 2134b 

Xeriah 2134b 

cf  Neri 2134b 

Nerias 2134b 

Nero ...  .2134b  (Angus) 

Ambit  ion  of  Agrippina  2135- 

Downfall     and     char- 
acter  2137b 

I''ive  golden  years 2135b 

Great  fire,  the 2136- 

Last  years  and  death.  2137* 

Name,   parentage  and 
training 2134b 

Nero  and  Christianity.  213Sa 

•'Nero  Redivivus"..  .  .2137b 

cf  Number 21G2b  (Smith) 

Paul  and  Nero 2138a 

Persecution    of    Chris- 
tians. .                   . . .2136b 
cf  Persecution 2325°  (Rutherfurd) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3323 


Nero — continued 

Poppaea's  influence .  .  . 2135b 

cf  Puteoli 2">lla  (Allen) 

References  in  Revela- 
tion  21371' 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity 2G0.5b  (Angus) 

Tigellinus 213G!l 

Nest 213S1'  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Owl 2205b  (Stratton-Porter) 

Net 

cf  Fishing 1116"  (Patch) 

cf  Fowler ll-13a  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Snare 2819"  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Trap 3007"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Netaim 2139" 

Ncthanel 2130*  (Lees) 

Nethaniah 2139a 

Ncthinim 2139b  (Lees) 

History  of 2139b 

cf  Keros 1793b 

Meaning 2139b 

cf  Padon 2207a 

Post-exilic  references.  .2139b 

cf  Priests  and  Levitcs.  2446b  (Wiener) 

cf  Solomon 2S24a  (Weir) 

cf  Solomon's  Servants. 2825b  (Mack) 

cf      Temple      Keepers 

(Servants) 2942b  (Easton) 

Netophah 2140a  (Mastennan) 

cf  Ncphtoah 2134a  (Masterman) 

Netophas  (Netophah) .  .  ,2140a 
Netophathi,        Netopha- 

thites 

cf  Netophah 2140°  (Masterman) 

Nettles 2140a  (Masterman) 

cf  Thorns,  Thistles. .  .  .2974a  (Masterman) 
Network 2140a 

cf  Jachin  and  Boaz .  .  .  1  ~>47b  (Caldecott) 

New,  Newness 2140b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

New  Birth 

cf  Regeneration 254Gb  (Nuelsen) 

New  Commandment 

cf  Brotherly  Love 52ob  (Rees) 

New  Covenant 731a  (M'Caig) 

cf  Law  in  NT 1851a  (M'Caig) 

New  Earth 

cf  Eschatology  of  NT.  979b  (Vos) 

cf  Heavens,  New 13.53a  (Vos) 

New  Heavens 1353a  (Vos) 

New  Jerusalem 1021b  (Vos) 

cf  Revelation  of  John  .  25<S2b  (Or) 

New  Man 1975a  (Webb) 

Xew  Moon 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .1103°     (E.     D.     Isaacs); 

20Sla  (Schenk) 
New  Testament 

cf     Archaeology      and 

Criticism 22Ga  (Kyle) 

cf  Bible 459b  (Orr) 

cf  Canon  of  NT 5G3a  (Riggs) 

cf  Inspiration  of 1483a  (WarfiekD 


New  Testament  Canon  .  .  ~>G3a  (Riggs, 
New      Testament      Lan- 
guage   .  .  182G1'  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

New  Testament,  Text  .  .  . 2950b  (Sitterly) 
New  Year 

cf  Time.  29S1'>  (Porter) 

cf  Year 312Ga 

Xc/iuh 2141" 

Nezib 2141" 

Xibhaz 2141" 

cf  Cods 1271"  (Reeve) 

Nibshan 2141a 

Nicanor 2141a  (Angus) 

Niccne  Creed 742b  (Alexander) 

Nicodemus 2141'1  (Kerr) 

Interview  with  Jesus.  .2142a 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1G371'  (Orr) 

Later  references 2142" 

Nicodemus,     Apocryphal 

Gospel  of.  .  .               .  .  ,200a  (Hutchison) 
Nicolaitans 2142b  (Kerr) 

Controversies  over. .  .  .  2142b 

cf  Nicolaiis 2143:i  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

References  to 2142b 

Sect  of 2142b 

Nicolaiis,  Nicolas 2143a  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Nicolaitans 2142b  (Kerr) 

Nicopolis 2143a  (Harry) 

Niger 

cf  Simeon 2794"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Nigh 

cf  Near 2126* 

Night 2143b  (Dosker) 

cf  Day  and  Night 79Sa  (Wolf) 

Night-hawk 2143b  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Hawk 1345a  (Stratton-Porter) 

Night-monster 2143b  (Sweet) 

Accepted  translation  .  .  2144a 

cf     Communion     with 

Demons GS9b  (Sweet) 

cf  Dcmonology S27b  (Sweet) 

Folklore  in  OT 2144* 

cf  Lunatic 1941b  (Sweet) 

Poetical  passages 2144b 

Tcnnliliih 2145" 

Night-watch 2145a 

cf  Time 29Slb  (Porter) 

cf  Watch 3074"  (Porter) 

Nile 2145a  (Kyle);  907a  (Petrie) 

In  history 2146b 

Inundation  of 2146a 

Irrigation  and  farming. 2 147a 

Location     of     temples 
and  cemeteries 2146b 

Name 2145b 

Physical  geography .  .  .2145b 

Relation  to  religion.  .  .2147" 

cf  Shihor 27G8a  (Kyle) 

Value  to  Egypt 214Ga 

Nimrah 2147a  (Ewing) 

cf  Leopard 18GGb  (Day) 

cf  Nimrim 2147a  (Ewing) 


3324 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Nhnrim 2147"  (Ewiiigi 

cf  Leopard  .  .  18GGh  (D;iy) 

cf  Nimrali 2147"  (Ewing) 

Nhnrod 2147b  (Mack) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder; 

cf   Babylonia  and   As- 
syria, Religion  of.  .  .  3G8b  (Rogers 

As  hunter .  .  1440b 

cf  Merodach 203G1' 

cf  Nineveh 2148"  (Pinches! 

cf  Orion 22011' 

Nimshi 21471' 

Nineveh 2147h  (Pincliesi 

Defenses 2148" 

Downfall  of 572"  (Nicol 

Extent  and  population  214S1' 

Illustrations     in     bas- 
relief .    21 50'' 

cf  Nahum,  Book  of.  .  .2110''  (Eiselen) 

Name 2118" 

cf  Nimrod 21 47'-  (Mack) 

Overthrow  of 21501' 

Palace   of    Assur-bani- 
apli .  .2149'' 

Palace  of  Sennacherib  .21  19:1 

Palaces  of. .  .  .  .2149" 

cf  Rehoboth-ir 2552'1  ( Pinches  > 

cf  Rosen 2."JC>1"  (Pinches1 

Ruins  of.  .  .  .  .214Sh 

Sennacherib's    descrip- 
tion of.  .  .  .  .  .21491' 

Nineveh,  Library  of 2151"  (Sayce'i 

Contents  of 2152" 

Discover}' 21.")!" 

cf  IJammurabi,  Code  of  1327"  (Tngnad  i 

Historical  texts 2152'1 

cf  Libraries 1S8G'1  (Richardson) 

Religious     and     other 
texts 2152" 

Translations  and  exer- 
cises  2152" 

Writing  materials 21 511' 

Ninevites 2153" 

Ninib 372"  (Rogers) 

Niphis 2153" 

Nippur 305"  (Clay) 

cf  Shinar 2772b  (Pinches 

Nisan 2153" 

cf  Calendar 541b  (Port(>r) 

Nisroch 2153" 

cf    Babylonia  and    As- 
syria, Religion  of ...  3GSb  (Rogers) 

Nitocris 350b  (Pinches) 

Nitre 2153"  (Patch) 

cf  Vinegar 3051"  (Easton) 

No 

cf  No-amon 2153b  (Kyle) 

Noadiah 2153" 

cf  Moeth 20731' 

cf  Neariah 2126b 

Noah 2153"       (Wright) ; 

(Davis) 


Noah — continued 

cf  Antediluvian   Patri- 
archs. .  .  .  .  .139"  (Davis) 

cf  Ark  of 240"  (Wright) 

cf  Deluge  of  Noah  .  .  .  .821b  (Wright) 
cf  Family  of,  in  Genesis  120Gb  (Mciller) 


cf  Noe 

Noah  (woman  i 
Noah,  Book  of 

cf    Apocalyptic 
at. ure.  . 


2154b 
.2153b 


Walker) 
Walker) 


139" 


Liter- 

101b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

No-amon 21531'  (Kyle) 

Nob 2153b  (Ewing) 

Nobah 2154"  (Ewing) 

cf  Nophah 2155" 

Nobai 2154" 

Noble,     Nobles,     Noble- 
man  2154"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Nod 21")  lh 

Nodal) 2154b 

Noe.  ...  2154b 

cf  Noah 2153"  (Wright) 

Noeba ...  .215P- 

cf  Nekoda.  .  .  .  .2133" 

cf  Nckodan 2133" 

Nogah .  .  .21")  I1' 

cf  Naggai.  .  .  .  .2108'' 

Nohah 2154b 

Noise 2154b  (W. 

Noisome 2155"  (W. 

Non 2155" 

cf  Nun 2170" 

Nooma 2155" 

cf  Nebo.  .  212Gb 

Noon,  Noonday 2155" 

cf  Day  and  Night . 

cf  Midday  .  . 

cf  Time 

Noph 

cf  Memphis 20301' 

Nophah 2155" 

cf  Nobah 2154"  (Ewing) 

North,  North  Country.  .2155"  (Day) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Northeast,  Southeast..  .  .2155b  (Day) 

ef  Phoenix 2391"  (Calder) 

Northern  Israel 

cf  Joahaz lG78b 

Nose,  Nostrils 2155b  (Luering) 

cf  Branch 513b  (Masterman) 

Nose-jewels 2150"  (Pollard) 

cf  Amulet 12Gb  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Jewel 1075b  (Orr) 

Nostrils  (Nose) 2155b  (Luering) 

Notable 2150"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Note 215Gb  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Nothing 2150b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Nought 215Gb  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Nourish 2157"  (Berry) 

Novice 2157a  (Rutherfurd) 

Number 2157a  (Smith) 

Arithmetic.  .  .2157b 


.  798"  (Wolf) 

.2019" 

.2981''  (Porter) 

.2155' 

(Petrie) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3325 


Number — continued 
Exaggerated  numbers .  2158" 
Forty,  the  number. .  .  .2158'' 

Four,  the  number 21  Gl1' 

Gematria 21G21' 

cf  Xero 2138"  (Angus) 

Notation  of  numbers .  .2157'" 
Notation     by     words, 
signs  and  letters.       2157'' 

InOT 2158" 

cf  Pentateuch 23021';  2309>>  (Wiener) 

Round  numbers 2158b 

cf  Sabbath 2G29b  (Sampey) 

Seven,  the  number. .  .  .2159b 
Apocalyptic  use  of.  .21  GO1' 
Historical  use  of.  .  . 21GO" 

Literary  use  of 21  GO" 

Multiples  of 2160b 

Ritual  use  of 21  GO'1 

Significant  numbers .  .  .2159b 

Ten,  the  number 21G2" 

Three,  the  number. .  .  .  2161:l 
Twelve,  the  number. .  .21G2" 

Number,  Golden 1275b 

Numbering 

cf  David 790b  (Weir) 

cf  Quirinius 645"  (Armstrong) 

Numbers 

cf  Gad,  Son  of  Jacob.  .  1151" 

cf  Issachar 1541b  (Ewing) 

cf  Judah 1758a  (Ewing) 

cf  Naphtali 2118b  (Ewing) 

cf  Reuben 2572b  (Ewing) 

cf  Zebulun 3135a  (Ewing) 

Numbers,  Book  of 21G3a  (Whitelaw; 

Authorship 21GSb 

Against  Mosaic  view  216Sh 
Arguments  for   Mo- 
saic tradition  .  .  .  .21G9!l 
Historical  credibility  .  .  21G5b 
Chronological  errors  21G5b 
Physical    impossibil- 
ities  21G7b 

Statistical  errors. .  .  .21GGa 
Literary  structure.  .  .  .2163b 
Grounds  of  analysis  21G3b 
Objections  to  analy- 
sis  2164" 

Title  and  contents.  .  .  .21G3a 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  30G5b;  3069"  (Cornier; 

Numenius 2170a  (Angus) 

cf  Lucius 1934b  (Hutchison);    1935" 

(S.  F.  Hunter; 

Numeri,  Roman 257b  (Allen) 

Nun 2170a 

Nun 2170a 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson ) 

Xurse,  Nursing 2170a  (T.  Lewis; 

Xurture 2170b 

Nuts 2170b  (Masterrnan);  1 123" 

(Eager) 
Nymphas 2170b  (Rutherfurd) 


2171" 

2171:'  (Master-man; 


Oabdius 

Oak  .  . 

Hebrew  words  and  ref- 
erences. .  2171 ' 
Oaks  in  modern  Pales- 
tine. .                            2172' 

cf  Terebinth 2949"  (Masterrnan) 

Varieties 21711' 

Oak  of  Tabor 2172'' 

Oar 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  .  .2774"  (Xicolj 

Oath 2172b  (Levertoff) 

cf  Adjuration 5G:l  (Pratt) 

Forms  of  swearing.  .  .  .2172'' 

Formula  of  oath 2173" 

cf  Judge 1771b  (Leverlot'f: 

cf  Law  in  NT 1845a  (M'Caig) 

Law  regarding  oaths.  ,2172b 

cf  Vow 305Sa  (Levertoff) 

Obadiah  (general) 2173a  (Sampey) 

cf  Abdias 4a 

Obadiah,  Book  of 2173"  (Sampey; 

Capture  of  Jerusalem  .  2174" 

Contents 21731' 

Date 2173'' 

Relation    to    Jeremiah 

and  Joel 2173b 

Style  and  allusions..  .  .21741' 

Unity 2173b 

Obal 

cf  Ebal 889b 

Obdia,      Habaiah,      Ho- 

baiah 2174b 

Obed 2175"  (Roberts) 

Obed-edom 2175a  (Roberts) 

Obedience,  Obey 2175a  (Clippinger) 

cf  Disobedience 854b  (Clippinger) 

Meaning  of  terms 2175" 

NT  conception 21751' 

OT  conception 2175b 

Obedience  of  Chris) 2175b  (Crannell; 

cf  Atonement 321"  (Carver) 

Christological  bearing .  217Ga 
An    element    in    char- 
acter  2175b 

Soteriological    bear- 
ing  2176b 

Obeisance 2177"  (T.  Lewis) 

Obelisk 2177b 

cf  Pillar 23981'  (Orn 

Obetli 2177b 

Obey  (Obedience: 2175"  (Clippinger) 

Obil 2177b 

Object 2177h 

Oblation 2177b 

Obodas 240"  (Doskor) 

Oboth 21771' 

cf   Wanderings   of    Is- 
rael   3064"  (Condor; 

Obscurity 2177h 

Observation 2178a  (Easton) 

Observe 21771'  (Easton) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Observer  e>f  Times 

cf  Divination    800"  (T.  W.  Da  vies- 

Obstinacy 

cf  Harden    .  .    1338"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Occasion 217S" 

Occupy 217S"  (Estes 

cf  Trade 3002"  (Easte.ru 

Occnrre>nt 217SIL 

Ocliielus 21 7S" 

Ochan -  -217S" 

cf  Aclian.  ...  .  .35b  (Beecher 

Ochre,  .Red.  .  .  .  .217S» 

c.f  Pencil.  .  ...  .±29S" 

Ocidelus..  .'-'ITS1' 

Ocina 

Ocodelns  (Ocidelus 
Oe-ran 

e-f  Ochran 

Oded 

e-f  Adde>  (Iddo)  .  . 

cf  Azariah 

Oeles  e)f  Solomon 

e;f  Apocalyptie;   Litera- 
ture'  161 

Odetllam 21 T 

cf  Adullam 

Odomarra  (Odomera ) 

Oelomera 

( )donarkes  (Odonie'ra  i 
Odor 

cf  Savor 2T001'  (1 

Of 2179"  (1 

Offence,  Offend..  .  . 

NT  usage 

OT  usage 21  TO1' 

e-f         Stumbling-block, 

Stumbling-steme. .  .  .  2S6T1'  (llove'y) 
Offer,  Offering 

cf  Sacrilie-e,  OT 2038"  (Reeve) 

Oflie-e 2 ISO"  (T.  Lewis) 

Officer 21  SO1'  (T.  Lewis: 

Offices  of  Christ 0101'  (Bevan) 

Offscouring 2 ISO1'  (( ierberding) 

Offspring 

e-f  Childre-n 000' '  (St  earns  i 

Often 21S01' 

Og 21801'  (Orr) 

cf  Argol. 240b  (Ewing) 

e-f  Bashan Ill"  (Ewing) 


•JITS1' 
2  ITS1' 

2  1  Ts 

2  ITS1'  (Roberts) 
1  l\T>  (Crannell) 
342"  (W.  W.  Davies 


(J.  E.  11.  Tliomson) 
2  iTs1' 

<>2b  (Beecheri 
2  1  TS'' 
217Sh 
2  ITS1' 
2  ITS'- 

wards; 
ast  on) 

21T'.)1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 
21SO" 


cf  Rephaim 2.">."~>! 

Ohad 21S1" 

Ohel 21S1" 

Oholah 21S1" 

cf  Oholibah 21S1"  (W.  W.  navies; 

Oholiab 21S1" 

Oholibah 21S1"  (W.  W.  navies) 

Oholibamah 2181" 

Oil 2181b  (Patch) 

Figurative  references .  .  21S2b 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager) 

cf  Lamp  .  .  1825"  (Porter) 

cfMeal..  ,.2013b 


Oil  —  continued 

cf  Meals,  Meal-time  . 

2014a  (Eager) 

e-f  Oil,  Anointing  

2183"  (Orr) 

e>f  Ointment  

2183*  (Patch) 

e-f  Perfume  . 

232  lb  (Patch) 

Production  

21Slh 

Terms  used  for  

2181b 

Uses  of  

2182" 

e-f  Wine,  Wine1  Press  .  . 

3080"  (Easton) 

Oil,  Anointing  

21  S3"  (Orr) 

cf  Anoint  ing  

13S>  (Eager) 

cf  Oil  

21S11'  (Patch) 

Oil,  Beaten  

21  S3" 

cf  Candlestick,  Golden 

.",3"  (Orr) 

cf  Oil  

21Slb  (Patch) 

Oil,  Holy 

cf  Anointing  

13S"  (Eager) 

cf  Oil  

21  SI1'  (Patch) 

Oil-making 

cf  Crafts  

T34"  (Patch) 

Oil,  Olive 

cf  Oil  

2  IS  I1'  (Patch) 

cf  Olive  Tree  

21S4"  (Masterman) 

Oil  Press 

cf  Oil  

21Slb  (Patch) 

cf  Wine1,  Wine  Press  . 

30SO"  (Eastern) 

Oil  Tree  

2183"    (Masterman);    ,: 

(Masterman) 

cf  Olive  Tree  

2184"  (Maste-rmaiil 

cf  Pine  Tree1  

2399"  (Masterman) 

Ointme-nt  

21  S3"  (Patch) 

e-f  Anointing  

138"  (Eager) 

cf  Oil  

2181b  (Patch) 

e-f  Pen-fume  

232  11'  (Patch) 

(  Mainus  

2183b 

Old 

e'f  Age,  Old  Age. 

71"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Old  Gate 

cf  Jerusalem  

1607"  (Masterman) 

Old  Man  

2lS3b  (Pratt) 

cf  Man,  Natural  

1974"  (We-bb) 

cf  Man,  New  

197")"  (Webb) 

Old  Pre>phet,  The  

21S3b  (Roberts) 

Ce-ntral  truths  

2  LSI" 

Grit  ical  considcral  ions 

2183b 

Narrative  in  1  K  13. 

21S3b 

Old  Testament,  Text  of 

29.")7b  (Weir) 

Criticism  of  

7-1  S1'  (Orr) 

Inspiration  of  

14S2"  (Warfield) 

(  >ld  Testament  Canem.  . 

;")4"  (Rol)inson) 

Old       Testament       Lan 

guages  

1832"  (Weir) 

Oleaster 

cf  Oil  Tree  

21  S3"  (Masterman) 

Olive 

cf  Food  

1122b  (Eager) 

cf  Oil  

21Slb  (Patch) 

cf  Olive  Tree  

2184a  (Masterman) 

Olive  Berries 

cf  Olive  Tree  

2184a  (Masterman) 

Olive,  Grafted 

cf  Olive  Tree  

21S4"  (Masterman) 

GENERAL  INDEX 


Olive  Tree 2184"  (Masterman) 

Fruit 12185" 

Importance 2184b 

cf  Oil  Tree 21  S3"  (Masterman) 

Olive  oil 2 18.')1' 

Wild  olives 21851' 

Olive,  Wild 218f>'> 

Olive  Yard 

cf  Olive  Tree 21841'  (Ma.stennaii) 

Olives,  Mount  of 2185b  (Masterman) 

cf  Bahurim 378"  (Ewing) 

cf  Bethphage 451a  (Masterman) 

Churches    and     tradi- 
tions  2188" 

cf  Gethsemane 1221b  (Masterman) 

High  places 2187" 

cf  Jerusalem 1/598''  (Masterman) 

Names 2186" 

Olivet  and  Jesus 2187" 

OT  associations 21SGb 

Situation  and  extent.  .2180" 

View  of  Jerusalem  from  2187b 
Olivet 

cf  Olives,  Mount  of.  .  .2185b  (Masterman) 

Olympus 2188b 

Olympius 2188b 

cf  Jupiter 1781"  (Eastern) 

Omaerus 2188b 

Omar 2188b 

Omega 

cf  Alpha  and  Omega.  .  103b  (Harry) 
Omens 

cf  Augury 331"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Divination 8(10"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Omer 2188b 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Omnipotence 2188b  (Yos 

Divine  powers 2189a 

cf  God 1250"  (Roes) 

cf  God,  Names  of 12G4b  (Mack) 

Inherent      in      Divine 
names 2188b 

Manifestation  of 21S9b 

Modes  of  expression. .  .2189" 

cf  Power 2427b  (Orr) 

Significance  of 2189b 

Terms  and  usage 2188b 

Omnipresence 2190"  (Vos) 

Negative  views 2190" 

Non-occurrence  of  the 
term 2190" 

Philosophical  and  pop- 
ular ideas  of 2190" 

Presence  of  God 2190b 

Religious  significance.  .2190b 
Omniscience 2191-'1  (Vos) 

Extent  and  mode 2191" 

cf  Foreknow 1128"  (Hodge) 

Free  will  and 2191b 

cf  Infinite 1467"  (Orr) 

Religious  importance..  2192a 

Terms  and  usage 2191a 


Omri 2192"  (Mosimanj 

Accession 2192" 

Foreign  policy 2192'1 

Founding  of  Samaria.  .2192'' 
Religious  influence  .  .  .  .2193" 

On  (Hcliopolis) 2193"  (Kyle) 

Excavations  at 2191" 

History 2193'- 

cf  Ir-ha-heres 1491"  (Kyle) 

Location  and  descrip- 
tion  2193" 

On  (person) 2194" 

Onam 2194" 

cf  Onan 2194" 

Onan 2194" 

cf  Onam 2194" 

One 

cf  Number 2157"  (Smith) 

Onesimus 2194"  (Rulherfurd) 

Epistles     to     Colossae 

and  Philemon 2194'' 

Paul's  relations  with.  .2194" 

Oncsiphorus 2195"  (Rutherfurd) 

Friend  of  Paul 2195" 

Household  of 2195" 

Visits  Paul  in  Rome..  .2195" 

Oniares 2195b 

Onias 2195b  (Angus) 

Onions 2196";   1122"  (Eager) 

Onkelos 

cf  Targum 29111'  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Only  Begotten 2196"  (Rees) 

cf  Begotten 426b  (Rees) 

cf  Person  of  Christ..  .  .2338"  (Warfield) 

cf  Son  of  God 28261'  (Stalker) 

Ono 2196"  (Ewing) 

Onus 

cf  Ono 2196"  (Ewing) 

Onyeha 2196'  (Day) 

Onyx 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2856"  (Fletcher) 

Open 2196b 

Open  Place 21961'  (Easton) 

cf  Enaim 941b  (Masterman) 

cf  Void 3058" 

Operation 21961' 

Ophel 2196b  (Masterman) 

cf  Hill,  Hill  Country.  .  1392"  (Masterman) 

In  Jerusalem 2197" 

cf  Jerusalem 1601"  (Masterman);  1613b 

Meaning  of  name 21961' 

Three    places   men- 
tioned  2197" 

cf  Zion 3152"  (Masterman) 

Ophir 21971'  (Fulton) 

Geographical  position.  2197b 
Probably          Southern 

Arabia 2197'1 

Scripture  references.  .  .2197'' 

Ophni 2198" 

Ophrah 2198"  (Ewing) 

Opinion 2198"  (W.  L.  Walker) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Opis.  ...  .36,")1'  (Clay 

Opobalsamuni 

cf  Stack' 2S471' 

Oppression  2198b  (McGlothlini 

Or .  .219Sb 

Oracle.  ...  ,219Sb  (Eastoni 

cf  Burden -r,28b  (Trever) 

cf  Divination  .  .  .*(>()"  (T.  W.  DM  vies 

Oracles,  Sibylline 

cf  Apocalyptic   Litera- 
ture  161b  (,].  E.  II.  Thomson: 

Orator,  Oration 2199"  (Edwards) 

cf  Divination S60"  (T.  AY.  Davies 

cf  Enchantment 942"  (Pratt) 

Orchard 2199- 

cf  Paradise 221(5-  (Wright) 

Ordain,  Ordination 2199-  (Edwards) 

Biblical  references.  .  .  .2199'' 

cf  Hands,  Imposition  of!335a  (Orr) 

Meaning  of  term.  .  .     .2199" 

NT  usage 2199b 

Order 2200-  (X.  Isaacs) 

Arrangement  in  rows.   2200" 

Classification  and  like- 
ness  22001- 

Regulation,  command .  22001' 

Sequence  in  time.  .  .  .    2J001' 
Ordinance 2201-  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Sacraments 21530"  (Lambert  > 

Ordinances  of  Heaven 

cf  Astronomy 301"  (Maunder 

Ordination 2199-  (Edwards' 

cf  Hands,  Imposition  of  1335-  (Orr) 

cf  Ordain 2199"  (Edwards; 

Ore!) 22()lb 

cf  Sinai 2S021'  (Conder'1 

Oreband  Zceb 2201'  (Roberts) 

Oren 2201b 

Organ 

cf  Music 20941'  (Millar) 

Origen 

cf  Septuugint 272(5"  (Thackeray) 

Original  Sin 

cf  Imputation 1462-  (Hodge) 

Orion 2201'-;  312" 

cf  Ximrod 21471'  (Mack. 

Ormazd  (Ahura  Mazda) 

cf  Persian  Religion  .  .  .2332"  (Tisdall) 
Ornament 2201b  (Doolan) 

cf  Jewel H57.")h  (Orr) 

Oman 

cf  Araunah 22ob 

Orpah 2202' 

Orphan 2202" 

cf  Fatherless 1 101-  (Edwards 

Orthosia 2202" 

Osaias 2202- 

Osea 2202" 

Oseas 2202" 

Osee 2202" 

Oshea 2202" 

cf  Joshua  (son  of  Nun) .  1743-  (Geden) 


Osnappar 

cf  Ashurbanipal 271b  (Clay);  367b 

Ospray 2202-  (Strat ton-Porter) 

Ossifrage 2202b  (Stratton-Porter) 

Ostraca 2202b  (Goodspeedj 

cf  Ahio 85b  (Beecher) 

Coptic  ostracsi 2203" 

Greek  ostracn 2203" 

Hebrew  osfraca 22021' 

XT  oatraca 2203 ! 

cf  Potsherd 24231' 

cf  Potter,  Pottery 2423b  (Patch] 

cf  Writing 3120-  (Richardson  i 

Ostrich 2203a  (Stratton-Porter j 

Characteristics  and  pe- 
culiarities 2203- 

Eggs  and  care  of  young  2204- 

OT  references 220  t- 

cf  Owl 220.V1  (Stratton-Porter) 

Othni 220  4b 

Othniel 22041'  (X.  Isaacs) 

Othonias 22041' 

Ouches 2201''  (Caldecott) 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  /JSoti-  (Fletcher) 

Outcast 220!'' 

Outer 220.-)' 

Outgoing 220.')-  (Easton) 

Outlandish 220/V' 

Outrage,  Outrageous.  .  .  .220.">:| 

Outroads 220.T' 

Outward  Man 220.V 

cf  Man,  Xatural 1974-  (Webb) 

cf  Man,  Xew 197o-  (Webb) 

Oven 

cf  Bread 514h  (Eager) 

cf  Furnace 1149b  (Iviger) 

Overcharge 220.")" 

Overpass 220,")- 

Overplus 220,")" 

Overseer 220f>>> 

cf  Bishop 478b  (Dosker) 

Qwl 22().")h  (Stralton-Porter) 

Biblical  references.  .  .  .2201)" 

Characteristics 220.V' 

cf  Hedgehog 13(5?' 

cf  Ibis 141(5" 

ef  Xest 213S1'  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Ostrich 2203-  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Owl,  Great 2206-  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Owl,  Little 2200- 

cf  Porcupine 2421b  (Day) 

cf  Serpent 2737b  (Day) 

Owl,  Great 220(5"  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Owl 2205h  (Stratton-Porter) 

Owl,  Little 2206" 

cf  Owl 2205b  (Stratton-Porter) 

Owl,  Screech 

cf  Xight-monster 2143b  (Sweet) 

Owner 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  ,  2774"  (Xicol) 
Ox 

cf  Antelope 143b  (Day) 


GK.NKRAL  INDEX 


Ox — continued 

cf  Cattle.  .  .  .  ..383b  (Dayj 

cf  Wild  Ox 3084b  (Day  i 

Ox  (person).  .  .  .220(ib 

Ox-goad 

cf  Goad .  .  12  is1'  (Patch 

Oxyrhynchua 

cf  Papyrus.  .  .  .22-K)1'  (Goodspeed 

Ozem 22()(i'' 

Ozias 22()i;'' 

cf  I'zziah 30431'  (Culdecott ) 

Oziel 220(1'' 

Ozni 22()(lh 

Oznitcs 220(1'' 

cf  Ozni 220(1'' 

Ozora  (Ezora) 1082" 

Paarai.  .  .  220(1' 

Pacatiana 2200-'1 

cf  Phrygia 2392"  (Banks) 

Pace 2206" 

Pachon.  : 220(1'' 

Paddan 220(ih 

cf  Paddan-arain 220(1''  (Christie) 

Paddan-arani 2206''  (Christie) 

cf  Arum 222" 

cf  Laban 1819"  (Boyd) 

Paddle 2207" 

Padon 2207" 

cf  Ncthinim 2139b  (Lees) 

cf  Phaleas 2358b 

Pagiel 2207"  (Wallace) 

Pahath-moub 2207"  (Wallace) 

cf  Manasseh 1977"  (Wallace) 

cf  Phaath  Moah 2358b  (Angus) 

Pai 2207" 

Pain 2207a  (Macalister) 

cf  Palsy 2230"  (Macalister , 

Painfulncss 2207b  (Macalister i 

Paint 2208"  (Crannell) 

cf  Color 674b  (Patch) 

Painting 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

Pair 2208" 

Palace 2208"  (Orr) 

cf  House 1434''  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Judgment,  Hall  of.  .  17771'  (Rutherfurd) 
cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldccott ;  Orr) 

Palaestra,  Palestra 

cf  Games 1168b  (Smith) 

Palal 2208" 

Palanquin 2208" 

cf  Litter 1905" 

Palestina 220Sb 

cf  Philistiu 237(5"  (Porter) 

Palestine 2208b  (Condor) 

cf  Asmoneans 283a  (Dosker ) 

cf  Eglath-shelishiyah .  .905b  (Ewing) 

cf  Exodus,  The 1052a  (Condor) 

cf  Galilee 1163a  (Ewing) 

cf  Gallery 1167"  (X.  Isaacs) 

cf  Geology  of  Palestinel215b  (Day) 


Palest  ine — continued, 

cf  Hill,  Hill  Country.  .  I392:i  (  Maslermaii , 
In  Historical  Books  of 

OT 2212- 

Books  of  Kings.  .  2217" 
Joshua,  Book  of.  .2212" 
Judges,  Book  of.  221:]' 
Post-exilic  histories .  2218" 
Kuth,  Book  of.  221  \]> 

Samuel,  Books  of    .  .221 4b 

'•f  II it! it es 139.V'  (Cornier; 

cf  Jerusalem l/j!)(5b  (Masterman  i 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1(127"  (Orr) 

cf  Jordan  River 1  732b  (Wright  • 

cf  Lachish 1820"  (Porter, 

Literature  on 22221' 

Xew  Testament  loculi- 

t  ies 2220b 

Acts 2222b 

1'  ourth  Gospel 2222" 

Galilean  localities.  .  .2221" 
Galilean  scenery. .  .  .2221" 
Synoptic  Gospels  .  .  .  2220b 
Palestine  in  the  Apoc- 
rypha  2220" 

Judith 2220" 

Maccabees,  Books  of  2220b 
cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 22221'  (Cobern) 

Pentateuchal          refer- 
ences   2210" 

Geography   of    Deu- 
teronomy  221 lb 

Geography    of    Exo- 
dus and  Leviticus .  221 1 '' 
Geography  of  Genesis221 1" 
Geography  of  Num- 
bers  221 lb 

Places     visited      by 

Abraham 2210" 

Places      visited      by 

Jacob 2210h 

Physical  conditions.  .  .2208'' 

Climate 22091' 

Drought  and  famine  2210" 
Flora  and  fauna  ....  22091' 
Geographical    fea- 
tures   2208'' 

Geology 2209" 

Rainfall 22091' 

Water  supply 2209" 

In  Poetic  Books  of  OT. 2218 •" 

Job,  Book  of 2218" 

Proverbs,  Book  of.  .2218'' 
Psalms,  Book  of .  .  .  .2218'' 

Song  of  Songs 22181' 

cf  Song  of  Songs. .  2831"  (Sampey) 
In  Prophetic  Books.  .  .2219" 

Ezekiel 2219b 

Isaiah 2219" 

Jeremiah 2219b 

Minor  prophets 2220" 

cf  Syria 2881"  (Christie) 


3:5:50 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Palestine,      Recent     E: 

ploration 

cf  Ashtoreth 

Dead  Sea 

Era  of  preparat  ion  .  . 
Outsideof  Palestine 

In  Palestine 

Era  of  scientific  exca- 
vation   

Central  Palest  me  .  .  . 
Eastern  Palest  inc.  .  . 

(lath 

( lexer 

Jericho 

Jerusalem 

Mareshah 

Megiddo 

Northern  Palest  inc. . 

Samaria 

Shephelah,  the 

Southern  Palestine. . 

Taanach 

Tell     el-IIesy      (La- 

chish) 

cf  Lachish 

Tell     Hum     (Caper- 
naum)   

Era    of    scientific    ex- 
ploration   

Coopcrat  ive  explora- 
tion   

Individual         enter- 
prises   

Most  recent  results. 

cf  ( le/.er 

cf  Images 

cf  Jericho 

cf  Jerusalem 

cf  Philistines 

Palestra 

cf  Games 

Pallu,  Palliates.  . 

cf  Peleth 

Palm  of  the  Hand 

cf  Hand 

cf  Paw 

Palm  Tree 

Abundance    in    Pales- 

t  ine 

Name  and  references. . 

Palm  branches 

Symbolic  use 

cf  Tamar 

Palmer-worm 

cf  Insects 

cf  Locust 

Palsied 

cf  Feeble  Knees 

Palsy 

cf  Pain 

Palti.  . 


2225b 

1820"  (Porter) 


222  •['• 


2225* 

1222"  (Masterman) 
1452"  (Cobern) 
1.7. (2-  (Wright) 
1601b  (Masterman.i 
237(>b  (Conder) 

ll(>8b  (Smith) 

2235" 

2297* 

223.">"  (Luering) 
1333b  (Lucring) 
2293a  (Luering) 
2235"  (Mastennatu 


1104b  (Luering) 
2236a  (Macalister) 
2207a  (Macalister) 
2236b 


Paltiel 223<>b 

cf  Phaltiel 2358b 

Paltite 223(>b 

cf  Pelonite 2297b 

Pamphylia .  .2236b  (Banks) 

cf  Attalia 328"  (Banks; 

Importance 2237a 

Introduction  of  Chris- 
tianity   22.'!7:l 

cf  Perga 2322"  (Banks) 

Physical  features 223<>h 

cf  Side 2785"  (Banks) 

Pan 2237"  (Betteridgc) 

cf  Pot 2423"  (Betteridge) 

Pannag 2237b  (Masterman; 

cf  Honey 14 IS1'  (Patch) 

Panoply 

cf  Armor,  Arms 251"  (Nicol) 

Pap 2237b 

cf  Teat 2923b 

Papal  Infallibility 338b  (Rees) 

Paper 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Papyrus 223S1'  (Goodspoed) 

cf  Heed 254  4a  (Masterman) 

cf  Writing 3114"  (Richardson; 

Paper  Reeds 2237b 

Paphos 2237b  (Tod) 

cf  Cyprus 771"  (Tod) 

History    of    New    Pa- 
phos  223S" 

History  of  Old  Paphos  2237b 

Site.  . 22371' 

Temple  and  cult 223Sa 

Visit  of  the  apostles..  .  223Sb 
Papiaa 

cf  Lit  erature,  Sub- 

apos 1!)01"  (Cowan) 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of. .  .  .  19S9b  (Farmer) 

cf  Matthew,  Gospel  of  2010a  (Schodde; 

Testimony     regarding 

Apostle  John 1707b  (Iverach) 

Papyrus 2238b  (Goodspeed) 

Aramaic  papyri 2239a 

Chief  collections 2242b 

Classical  papyri 2241a 

Contribution    to     NT 
study 2242b 

Coptic,     Arabic      and 
other  papyri 2243" 

Discovery  of  papyri. .  .  2239b 

Documentary  papyri .  .  2242" 

Egyptian  papyri 2239!l 

Greek  papyri 2239b 

cf  Jordan 1733a  (Wright) 

cf  Jordan  Valley 1736b  (Wright  ; 

cf  Language  of  NT ...  1828a  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Logia 191()a  (Smith) 

NT  papyri 2242a 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2223b  (Cobern; 

Papyrus  paper 2238b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


.3331 


Papyrus — continued 

cf  Reed 2544"  (Masterman) 

Septuagint  papyri .  .  .  .2241" 

cf  Seveneh 27  14' 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 

cf    Texts    and    Manu- 
scripts of  the  NT.  .  .2951"  (Sillcrly) 

Theological  papyri. .  .  .2242" 

cf  Writing 3122-  (Richardson) 

Papyrus,  Vessels  of 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 
Parable 2213"  (Schoddc) 

Christ's      purpose      in 
using  the 2243'- 

Christ's  use  of  the 2243'' 

Doctrinal  value  of  the  22441' 

cf  Fable 10X5"  (Easton) 

Historical  data 2243b 

Interpretation  of  the.  .2244" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1645"  (Orr) 

Name 2243" 

Paraclete 2245"  (Mulling) 

cf  Advocate 05"  (Mullins) 

As  applied  to  Christ  .  .2241)" 

Christ's     use     of     the 
word 2245b 

General  meaning 224")" 

cf  Holy  Spirit 1400"  (Mullins) 

Philo's  use  of  the  word .  224;")" 

Talmud  and  Targums .  224."," 

Translation,  the  best .  .2245'' 

Word  and  usage 2245" 

Paradise 2240"  (Wright) 

cf  Abraham's  Bosom.  .22b  (Orr) 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture. . 1G11'  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Eschatology  of  NT.  979b  (Vos) 

cf  Eschatology  of  OT .  972"  (Orr) 

Forms  and  uses 224Gb 

cf  Garden 1174"  (Patch) 

cf  Hades 1314b  (Vos) 

cf  Orchard 2199" 

Origin  and  meaning .  .  .  224G" 

cf  Park 224S1'  (Day) 

Use  in  Jewish  literature  2246b 

Used  by  Christ 224(5'' 

Parah 2247" 

Paralysis,  Paralytic; 

cf  Pain 2207"  (Macalister) 

cf  Palsy 2236"  (Macalister) 

Paramour 2247" 

Paran 2247"  (Ewing) 

Parbar 2247"  (Masterman) 

Parcel 22471' 

Parched 22471'       (Patch);        1307' 

(W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Mirage 20GG"  (Joy) 

Parched  Corn 

cf  Food 1121''  (Eager) 

Parchment 22471'  (Patch) 

of  Tanner 290Sb  (Patch) 

cf  Writing 3i21b  (Richardson) 


Parchments 224S"  (Rutherfurd) 

Pardon 

cf  Forgiveness 11321'  (Morro) 

Pare  (Nails) 224S1' 

cf  Nail 2111"  (Orr) 

Parent 

cf  Crimes  against 74 71'  (Ilirsch) 

cf  Education 900''  (Meyer) 

cf  Family 109 11'  (Caverno) 

cf  Punishments 25041'  (Ilirsch) 

Park 224S''  (Day) 

cf  Para<lise 2240"  (Wright) 

Parlor 224S'' 

cf  House 14341'  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Parmashta 224S1' 

Parmenas 2248b 

Parnach 224S1' 

Parosh 22481' 

cf  Pedaiah 22941'  (Wallace) 

cf  Phoros 2392" 

Parousia 2249"  (Eastonj 

cf  Antichrist 154"  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Apostolic  doctrine ....  2249" 

Church  a  Divine  quan- 
tity  2251'' 

Critical  problems 2250" 

Data  and  sources 2249" 

cf  Day  of  the  Lord. .  .  .  799"  (Dosker) 

cf  Eschatology,  NT 
and  OT 979b  (Vos) ;   972"  (( )rr) 

Fall  of  Jerusalem 2250b 

cf  Hell 1371"  (Orr) 

cf  Hope 1419b  (Easton) 

Johannine  solution. .  .  .2251" 

Johannine  teaching .  .  .2251" 

cf  Johannine  Theology  1705b  (Law) 

cf  Judgment,  Last.  .  .  .1777b  (Easton) 

cf  Kenosis 1792"  (Easton) 

cf  Kingdom  of  God.  .  .  1S05"  (Stalker; 

cf  Millennium 2052b  (Moorehead) 

cf  Pauline  Theology. .  .2289"  (Easton) 

cf  Presence 2438"  (Easton; 

cf  Resurrection 25G2"  (Easton) 

Symbolism  of 2250" 

Teaching  of  Jesus 2250" 

Terms 2249" 

Time  of 2251" 

Varieties  of  view 2250" 

cf  Zoroastrianism 3157"  (Easton) 

Parshandatha 225 11' 

Part 2251'' 

cf  Portion 24221'  (Easton) 

Part  Asunder 31Gb  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Parthians 225 lb  (Porter) 

Country  and  early  his- 
tory  2251b 

Culture 2253" 

Relations  with  Rome.  .2252'' 

cf  Scythians 270G"  (Porter) 

Seleucid  kings 2252" 

Particular,  Particularly.  .2253"  (Edwards) 
Partition,     The     Middle 

Wall  of 2253"  (Rutherfurd) 


GEXERAL IXDEX 


Partition — continued 

Barrier  in  th"  temple. .  2253b 

Court  of  Gentiles 22531' 

Herod's  temple 22").')'' 

cf  Temple 2937il  (Caldecott ;    Orrl 

Throwing     down     the 
barrier 2254" 

Warning  stone,  the.  .  .2253'' 
Partridge 2254"  (Stratum-Port en 

cf  Food 1124"  (Eager) 

cf  Quail 2512"  (St  rat  ton-Port  en 

Paruah 2255a 

Parvaim 2255"  (Fulton) 

Pasach 2255" 

Pas-dammim 

cf  Ephes-dammim .  .  .  .956"  (Masterman) 
Paseali 2255";  2:1(1.7' 

cf  Phinoe 23X5b 

Pashhur,  Pashur 22.-).?'  (Wallace) 

Pass,  Passage,  Passenger  225ob  (T.  Lewis) 
Passing  of  Mary,  The 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  195"  (Hutchison) 
Passion,  Gospel  of  the 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  19.1'  (Hutchison! 
Passion,  Passions 22f>f>h  (EasUm 

cf  Affection 65b  (Edwards; 

cf  Passover 2256"  (X.  Isaacs) 

Passover 2256"  (X.  Isaacs; 

Critical    views    of    the 
sources 2257b 

Development      of     the 
feast 2257'' 

Importance      in      XT 

times 22r>7h 

cf  Jesus  Christ   (Lord's 

Supper) K>r>X>'  (Orr) 

Modern  celebrat  ion  .  .  .225s-1 

cf  Moses 20X.V  (Kyle) 

Xame  and  meaning.  .  .2250" 

Offerings  of 2257' 

Order  of  events 22501' 

Origins 2257" 

cf  Passion 22.1.-)''  (Eastern) 

References  in  OT 2256'' 

Unleavened  bread .  .  .  .2256'' 

cf  \\'orsliip 3111"  (Crannell; 

Pastor 22f>S>' 

cf  Ministry.  .  .2057"  (T.  M.  Lindsay 

Pastoral  Epistles,  The..  .  225S1'  (Rutlierfurd.) 

Date  and  order 221)2-' 

Defined 225S1' 

Difficulties     with     the 
language 2201  ' 

Difficulties          against 
Pauline  authorship.  .22f>9a 

Genuineness  225S1' 

Xot    the    Christianity 
of  Paul.  .2261" 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle.     2265";    2267-  (A.  T.  Rob- 
ertson  i 

Paul's  relation  to 2259" 

cf  Persecution 2325:i  (Ruthernml; 


Pastoral  Epistl(,>s,  The — -continued 
Subject-matter,    ;>ost- 

Paulinc 22601' 

Pasturage,  Pasture 

cf  II(>rdsman 1375b  (Patch) 

cf  Sheep  Tending 275S'1  (Patch) 

Patara 2262h  (Banks) 

cf  Myra 2102b  (Banks) 

Pate 22G3;l  (Luering) 

Path,  Pathway 2263"  (Edwards) 

cf  Way 307',''  (Morroj 

Patheus 2263* 

Patliros 2263:i 

Pathrusim 2263;i 

Patience 22631'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  God 1250-  (Rces) 

cf  Longsul'fering 191S!l  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Patmos 2263b  (Harry) 

cf  John,  the  Apostle.  .1706b  (Ivcrach) 
cf  Revelation  of  John.25S2b  (Orr) 
Patriarch,  Patriarchs..  .  .2264"  (Orr) 
cf  Antediluvian  Patri- 
archs  139"  (Davis) 

cf  Genealogy llSM'1  (Crannell) 

Patriarchs,  Antediluvian  139"  (Davis) 
Patriarchs,  Testaments  of 
the  Twelve 

cf  Apocalyptic   Litera- 
ture  16P>  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

Patrimony 2264"  (Mack) 

cf  Birthright 47S"  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Family 1094b  (Cavernoi 

cf  Inheritance 146S1'  (Hirschj 

Patristic  Writings 

Antichrist  in 1551'  (,J.  V..  II.  Thomson) 

Patrobas 2264" 

Patroclus 2261" 

Pattern 22641'  (Patch) 

Pau 

cf  Pai 2207" 

Paul,  the  Apostle 22(54''  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

Antichrist  in  Epistles. .  154b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Baptism 397"  (Dau) 

Barnabas 405h  (Jacobs) 

Chronology 2270'' 

Crucial  points 2271" 

1  Afferent  schemes. .  .2270'' 
cf  Chronology  of  XT..6441'  (Armstrong 
Controversy  with   Ga- 

latians 1157b  (G.  G.  Findlayj 

At,  Derb<> S31"  (Calder) 

Doctrine  of  Logos.  .  .  .  1914"  (Alexander 
Epistle  to  Philemon.  .  .  2366b  (C.  S.  Lewis. 

Epistles  of 166"  (Orr) 

Equipment  of 22721' 

Conversion 227S1' 

Hellenism 2274" 

Judaism 2276" 

Mystery-religions, 

the... 2275'- 

Personal     character- 
istics .  .  .  .  .2277-' 


GEXERAL  INDEX 


3333 


Paul,  the  Apostle — continued 
Equipment  of — continual 

Roman  citizenship.  .2273h 

Tarsus 2273" 

ef  Faithful  Sayings. .  .  .  1091"  (Rutherfnrd) 
And  Felix.  .                  .  .  H0r>b  (Kerr) 
And  Festus,  Porcius.  .1107"  (Kern 
And  Galatia 1  1 ")")"  (Ramsay) 

cf  Galatians,  Epist  le 

to  the ll.")o'J  ((i.  (i.  Findlay. 

cf  Gallio 1107'1  (Kerr) 

ef  Gamaliel 11  OX"  (Kerr) 

And  Gnosticism 1212"  (Rutherfurd) 

Gospel  of 22X7" 

On  inspiration 1  171"  (Warfield) 

Just  ificat  ion  in  writ  ings 

of 17X21'  (Faulkner) 

cf  Law  in  XT IX  17b  (M'Caig) 

Literary  style lX3()b  (A.  T.  Robertson.) 

Literature  on 22sX" 

And  Luke 41";42"   (A.  T.  Robert  so 

Lystra,  Paul  at 19  H1'  (Calder) 

cf  Macedonia 19571'  (Tod) 

Modern  theories  about 

Paul 2209" 

Baur's  successors .  .  .  2209b 

Comparat  ive    re- 
ligion   2270" 

Influence    of    escha- 
tology 2270" 

Nature  of  criticism.  .220'.)" 

Tubingen  theory..  .  .2209" 

ef  Mystery 210r>b  (Edwards) 

ef  Persecution 232  I1'  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Philippi 2309b  (Tod) 

cf  Philippians,  Epistle 

to 2372"  (Hayes) 

ef  Pisidia 2401"  (Calder) 

Poetry  of 2414b  (Schenk) 

Praetorian  Guard 2427h  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Priest,  High 244 lb  (Reeve) 

Relation  to   Illyri- 

cum 14f>0"  (Tod) 

Relation     to     Pastoral 

Epistles 22 ")'.)•'  (Rutherfurd) 

Relations  with  Mark.  .  19X7"  (Farmer) 
Relations   with    Onesi- 

mus 2194"  (Rutherfurd) 

Relations   with   ()ne>i- 

phorus 219.")"  (Rullierfurd  i 

Relations  with  Silas. .  .2790"  (Kerr) 
Relations  with  Titus.  .29XXb  (Rutherfurd  / 

As  sailor 2770b  (Xicol) 

ef  Satictification 20X1"  (Rail) 

ef  Sea,  The  Great 270Xa  (Ewing) 

cf  Sin 2799b  (McConnellj 

Sources 220;~>" 

Acts 220/)" 

Development  in  the 
Epistles 2208" 


( In  \'enuj  i 
(Hod -re  i 
(Ivistonj 


(Williams,) 
(R.  H.  Walk. 
(Tod) 
(Rutherfurd  . 

(Ewing) 

(Rutherfurd) 


Paul,  the  Apostle — continual. 
Sources — continued 

Paul's  conception  of 
his  Epistles 2207 

Thirteen       Epistles, 

the 2205 

cf  Spain 2X3X 

Tarsus,  his  birthplace.  2910 
Teachings  regarding 

Family 1090 

Foreordinat  ion 1 130 

Grace 129  \ 

Guilt 1309b  (Rail) 

Man  of  sin 197.J'1  (Orr) 

Mediation 2023"  (Edwards) 

Person  of  Christ ....  233Sb  (Warfield 

Tho  Sabbath 203  lb  (Sampey; 

Sacrifice 20o2" 

cf  1  Thessalonians .  .  .  .2900 

At  Thessalonica 2970b 

Timothy  and  Paul.  .  .  .29X4" 
Tradition    of    visit    to 

Petra 271  I1 

Trophimus  and 3023': 

Use  of  "Seed"  in  Gal 

3   10 27121'  (East  on; 

Voyage  and  shipwreck 

of 22S01' 

cf  Phoenix 2391"  (Calder) 

Work  of 22791' 

Adjustment 2279b 

Conflict  at  Jerusalem  22X2 ' 

First  campaign 22811' 

Last  imprisonment . .  22X7" 

Later  travels 22801' 

Opportunity 2281" 

Opposition 22X0" 

Prison  life 22Xob 

Second  campaign.  .  .22X3" 

Third  campaign.  .  .  .2284" 

Waiting 22SOb 

Pauline  Theology 2289"  (East  on) 

cf  Church  Government  G53h  (Forrester) 
Conversion,  the 2290" 

Christ 2290" 

Justification 2291" 

Mystical  union 22901' 

Salvation 229()b 

Spirit,  the 2290" 

Further  developments  2291" 

Abolition  of  the  law  2291" 

Atonement  .  .  .  .2291'' 

Function  of  the  law  2292" 

Gentiles 2291" 

Moral  example 229 1'1 

Redemption 22911' 

cf  Clod 1250 

rf  Holy  Spirit 1400 

cf  Messiah 2039 

cf  Ministry 

cf  Parousia  .  . 


(Roes) 
(Mullins) 

(Cricht  on  i 

20.57"  (T.  M.  Lindsay) 
2249"  (Easton) 


•f  Pharisc 


. 2301"  (J.E.TI.  Thomson) 


(1EXERAL  IXDEX 


Pauline  Theology — conlinucil 

ef  Prayer 2430"  (Lambert ) 

cf  Predest  ii\ation 2435"  (J.  Lindsay; 

Preparation 22S9" 

Pharisc(>,  the 2289" 

Primitive   Christian- 
ity  2289'' 

Soul  and  sin 22S9b 

cf  Propitiation 2H17"  (Carver) 

cf  Salvation 2(1(15"  (Easton) 

cf  Sanctilication 2290";  2H811'  (Rail) 

cf  Schoolmaster 27021'  (Easton 

cf  Sin 27091"  (McComielb 

Special  topics 2292" 

The  Church 2292" 

The  Sacraments.  .  .  .22!)2b 

cf  Trinity 3012-  (Warfield) 

Paulus,  Sergius 2292b  (Kerr) 

Pavement 2292b 

cf  (iabbatha 1150b  (Mastermam 

Pavilion 2292b  (Orr) 

Paw 2293"  (Luering) 

cf  Palm  of  the  Hand  .  .2235"  (Lueriiijr 
Pe 2293" 

cf  Alphabet l()3b  (Richardson) 

Peace 225)3"  (\V.  L.  Walker) 

cf  C.reeting 1305"  (W.  L.  Walker  i 

In  XT 2293b 

In  OT 2293" 

Peacemaker 22931'  (W.   L.  Walker; 

Peace  ( M'fering 

cf  Sacrifice-,  OT 2(144"  (Reeve) 

Peacock 2294"  (St  rat  ton-Port  en 

Biblical  references.  .  .  .2294" 

Characteristics 22!)4" 

cf  Cold 1274"  (Patch) 

Pearl 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2850"  (Fletcher; 

Peculiar 22941'  (Easton; 

Pedahel 2294b 

Pedaluur 22941' 

Pedaiah 22941'  (Wallace) 

cf  Parosh 2248b 

cf  Phaldeus 23581' 

Pedestal 2295" 

Pedias 2295" 

cf  Hedeiah 423" 

Pedigree 2295"  (Betleridge.'i 

Peel 2295"  (Easton) 

Peep 2295" 

cf  Mutter 2102"  (East  OH  J 

Pekali 2295"  (CaldecottJ 

Accession 2295:l 

Attitude    toward     As- 
syria   2295'1 

Fall  of  Damascus 22951' 

Invasion  and  deporta- 
tion  2295h 

Pekahiah 2296"  (Caldecott ) 

cf  Mcnahem 2031b  (Caldecott  i 

cf  I'zziah 3043b  (Caldecot  t  i 


Pekod 229Gb 

Pelaiah 229Gb 

cf  Phalias 2358'- 

Pelaliah 229(ib 

Pelatiah 229(ib 

Peleg 2290''  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Pelet 2297" 

Pcleth 2297" 

cf  Pallu 2235" 

Pelet  hites 2297" 

cf  Cherethites 003"  (Ewing) 

cf    Stranger    and    So- 

journer  (in  OT)  ....  2SG5"  (Wiener) 
Pelia's 

cf  Pedias 2295" 

Pelican 2297"  (St  rat  ton-Porter) 

Pelishtim 2297'1 

cf  Philistines 237C)'1  (Conder) 

Pelonite 2297b 

cf  Paltite 223lib 

Pen 22971'  (Patch) 

cf  Ink 14()9"  (Richardson) 

cf  Ink-horn 14(J!)b  (Richardson) 

cf  Writing 3114"  (Richardson) 

Pence 

cf  Money 207(1"  (Porter) 

Pencil 229S" 

cf  Line 1894"  (Or) 

cf  Ochre,  Red 217S" 

cf  Tools 299S1-  (Easton) 

Pendant 229S" 

Peniel 229S-  (Ewing) 

cf  Phanuel 235Sb 

Peninnah 229S1 

Penknife 

cf  Pen 22971'  (Patch) 

Penny 229S- 

cf  Denarius 830"  (Porter) 

cf  Farthing 109S1' 

cf  Money 207(1"  (Porter) 

Pension 2298" 

cf  Divination 8(10"  (T.  W.  Da  vies) 

Pentateuch 2298"       (Wiener);        2  12' 

(Lot/);  4(14"  (Or) 

cf  Altar 10(lb  (Caldecott) 

cf  Amraphel 3d(J"  (Clay) 

cf      Archaeology      and 

Criticism 22(1"  (Kyle) 

Authorship,      composi- 
tion, date 229!)" 

Critical  views 22!)!)" 

Evidence  of  date.    .  .2301'' 
Evidence  for  modern 

critical  views 2300" 

Fundamental        im- 
probabilities   2307" 

Objections    to    criti- 
cal views 230 11' 

Origin  and  transmis- 
sion  23071' 

Character     of     Penta- 
teuch.. ...231 11' 


GENERAL  IXDEX 


Pent  at  ouch — continued 

Character  of  Pentateuch— continued 

Differences 2312" 

Hindu  law  books.  .  .2311'' 

Holiness 2312" 

Universal  aspect. .  .  . 2312h 

Criticism  of  the  Bible. 748b  (Orr) 

cf  Genealogy 1183b  (Crannell) 

cf  Genesis 12011'  (Mollcr) 

cf  Hexateuch 1385"  (Wiener) 

In  history 2309" 

Hebrew  expressions .  2309", 
Xational  coloring.  .  .2310" 
Personification  and 

genealogies 2300'' 

Reasoned  history.  .  .231 11' 
Textual  criticism  .  .  .2309" 
Trustworthiness.  .  .  .2310" 

cf  Jerusalem 15951'  (Masterman) 

cf  LawinOT 1852-  (Rule) 

cf  Moses 20S8b  (Kyle) 

cf  Names,  Proper 2113"  (Davis) 

cf  Number 2157"  (Smith) 

cf  Priest 2439"  (Moorehead; 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.2447";        24491'; 
(Wiener) 

cf  Sanctuary 2G8()b  (Wiener) 

cf  Septuagint 2722"  (ThackerayJ 

Some  literary  points.  .2308" 

Covenant,  the 230Sb 

Style  of  legislation.  .2308'' 

Title,     division,      con- 
tents   2298'- 

Pentateuch,       The      Sa- 
maritan  2312b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

Age  of  Nablusroll 2314b 

Bearing  on  the  Penta- 
teuchal  question.  .  .  .2317" 

Former  knowledge  of.  .2313" 

Knowledge  of,  revived. 23 13b 

Nablusroll,  the 2313b 

Relation  to  LXX 2316b 

Reflation  to  Massoretic 
text 2315" 

cf  Samaritans 2(373b  (Ewing) 

Script,  the 2313b 

Targums    and    Chron- 
icle .  / 2317b 

Pentecost 23 IS"  (Dosker) 

cf  Chronology  of  NT..G44b  (Armstrong) 

Later  Christian  observ- 
ance  2319" 

In  the  NT 2318'' 

In  theOT 2318" 

Penuel 

cf  Peniel 2298"  (Ewing) 

Penury 2319" 

People 2319" 

cf  Children  of  the  East  SSSb  (Day; 
Peor 2319b  (Ewing) 

cf  Ziinri 3149b  (Roberts) 

Peraea 2319b  (Ewing) 

The  country 2319b 


Peraea — cotilin  n>  // 

of  Gilead 

The  history 

Ministry  of  Jesus  in. 
Perazim,  Mount 

cf  Baal-perazim  .... 
Perdition 

cf  Man  of  Sin 

Peres 

cf  Mene,  Mem 

Pcresh 

Perez,  Pharez 

cf  Phares 

Perez-uzza 

cf  I'zza 

Perfect ,  Perfection 

The  Christian  ideal .  .  . 

In  NT 

InOT 

Perfectcr  (Finisher) 

Perform,  Performance  .  .  . 
Perfume,  Perfumer 

cf  Incense 

cf  Oil 

cf  Ointment 

cf  Spice,  Spices 

Perfume-making 

cf  Crafts 

Perga 

cf  Pamphylia 

Pergamos,  Pergamum  .  . 

Christianity 

I  listory 

Religions 

IVrida 

cf  Pharida 

Perizzite 

cf  Pheresites 

cf  Pherezite 

Perjury 

cf  Crimes 

cf  Oath 

cf  Punishments 

Perpetual,       Perpetually 

Perpetuity 

Persecution 

Causes  of 

Decian  persecution. .  . 

In  early  times 

( iontilc  persecution  .  .  . 

Hatred   against   Chris 
tians 

Jewish  instigation 

Libelli.  .  . 

Neronian  persecuf  ion. 
cf  Nero 

In  NT  times 

cf  Pastoral  Epistles  .  . 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle.. 

Persecution  in  army. . 

Persecution  in  Asia  .  . 

cf  Phygelus 


3013"  (Roberts; 

23201'  (\Y.  L.  Walker) 

2321" 

2321" 

23201' 

llll1' 

232 11'  (Ea.st.on) 

2321''  (Patch) 

14GGb  (Orr) 

2181b  (Patch) 

2183"  (Patch) 

2840"  (.Masterman) 

734"  (Patch) 

2322"  (Banks) 

223Gb  (Banks; 

2322"  (Banks) 

2323" 

2322" 

23221' 

2323" 

23G1" 

2323"  (Sayce) 

23GG" 

2366a 

7151'  (Hirsch) 
2172b  (LevertolT) 
2504h  (Hirsch; 


(Rutheri'unl ; 


GENERAL 1XDEX 


Persecution — continual 

Pliny's  testimony 232(>" 

of  Pont  us.  .  .  .2418"  (White) 

of  Praise  ...  ...  2  129"  (Lambert  i 

Results  of.  . .2327h 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity 2G041'  (Angus.) 

Home  as  persecutor.  .  .232.")'' 

Second  and  third   cen- 
turies   232(>' 

S t cphen       and       t  he 

apostles 232  !>> 

Perse])olis.  .  2328b  (Tisdall) 

Perseus 232S1'  (Angus) 

cf  Philip 23(i7''  (Hutchison 

Perseverance 2328b  (I)unelm) 

Persia 2329-  (Tisdail  i 

cf  Persians 233H"  (Tisdall  i 

Persian      Language     and 

Literature  (Ancient.)..  .2320"  (Tisdall  i 

Date  of  Avesta 2330b 

Divisions  of  Avesta  .  .  .12331 :| 

Gat  hie 2330:I 

Language 232!)' 

Medic  dialect  .  2330" 

Old     Persian     inscrip- 
tions  2329'- 

Ordinary  Avestic.  2330 ' 

Pahlavi.  .  .2331" 

Zoroaster 23301' 

Persian      Religion      (An- 
cient). .  .  .  .233  I'M  Tisdall) 

Anro    Mainyus    (Aliri- 
man),  the  evil  one  .  .  2333  : 

Avesta,  and  Rig-Veda  ..  233 11' 

Before  Zoroaster 23311' 

Creator,  the 2332" 

Early  Aryan  religion    .2331'' 

Early  traditions 2333'' 

Eschafology 2334b 

Fire  worship 233  I'1 

Heaven  and  I  loll.          2331" 

Leading  principle 23.32' 

Non-monotheistic..        2332  • 

Objects  of  worship. .      2332'1 

cf  Philosophy.  .  .2383"  (Rees; 

Production      and      de- 
struction   2333 • 

cf  Satan 269<>"  (Sweet  ) 

Treatment  of  dead.        2334" 

Virgiu-l)irtli..  .  .2334'' 

Zoroastrianism      2332" 

cf  Zoroastrianism      ,31f>7"  (Easton) 
Persians 233o"  (Tisdall 

Affinity ..233")" 

In  Asia  Minor.  .         .  .274'-  (Calder) 

Capture  of  Babylon.      2330" 

Civilization  ...  .  .  233;V> 

Classes  and  clans 233-V' 

Cyrus  of  Anshan  2336" 

Darius  I 2336b 

History  .  .  .  233G" 


Persians — cotilin  ucd 

cf  Persia 2329"  (Tisdall; 

cf  Tax 2919b  (Sweet) 

Xerxes  1 233Gh 

Persis 2337" 

Person  of  Christ 233Sa  (Warfield) 

Formulation      of      the 

doctrine 23471' 

cf  Gospels,  The  Synop- 
tic  2344";  1281b  (Iverach) 

cf  Immanuel 14f)7b  (A.  W.  Evans) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1624a  (Orr) 

cf  Johannine  Theology  169">b  (Law) 
cf  John,  Gospel  of.  .  .  .1720"  (Iverach) 

cf  Kenosis 1792"  (East  on  i 

Method  of  the  article .  2338a 

cf  Only  Begotten 219G"  (Rces) 

Other  Epistles  besides 

Hebrews 2312" 

cf  Salvation 2GG.5"  (Easton) 

Teaching  of  Epistle  to 

Hebrews 2341" 

Deity 2342" 

Humanity 2312" 

Teaching  of  Jesus 2344b 

Johannine  Jesus,  the  2344b 
Synoptic  Jesus,  thc.2345b 

Teaching  of  John 2342" 

Epistles 2342" 

Gospel,  the 2343b 

Prologue   to   Fourth 

Gospel 23-12'- 

Teaching  of  Paul.     .     .2338'- 
Humanity  of  Christ  23  10' 

Intrinsic  Deity 2338'- 

Other  Pauline  texts.  2340" 

In  Phil  2  ;)-!) 2338b 

Two    natures    presup- 
posed   2347" 

cf  Word 310.')"  (W.  L.  Walken 

Person,  Personality 2337"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Biblical  usage.  .  .  .2337" 

Subconscious,  the 23371' 

Terms  used 2337' 

Personality 

cf  Person 2337"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Persuade,  Persuasion..  .    2348"  (Easton) 

I'eruda  (Perida) 2323" 

cf  Pharida 231.1" 

Perverse 2348" 

Peshito 

cf  Syriac  Versions 2883b  (Xicolj 

Pestilence 2348"  (Maeaiister) 

Pestle 23181' 

cf  Mortar 2083"  (Orr) 

Peter,  Apocalypse  of 

cf  Apocryphal  Co>pels  19.")"  (Hutchison  i 
Peter,  Apocryphal  Gospel 

of .  .  197h  (Hutchison) 

cf  Literature,  Sub-apos  189Gb  (Cowan) 
Peter,   The   First    Epistle 

of .  .  .  .23.")lb  (Mooreheadj 


GEXERAL  IXDEX 


Potor,  The  First  Epistle  of — continued 

Address,  the 2352" 

Analysis 2355" 

Cunonioity  of 2352" 

Characteristics  of.        .2353'' 

Christian  brotherhood  2354'' 

Design 2352'- 

Inheritance 23.")  I1 

rf  Literature,  Sub- 
apostolic 1X9G1'  (Cowan) 

Persecution 23")3:1 

Place  and  time 23.~)2il 

cf  Simon  Magus 279G'1  i^  Rutherfurd) 

Spirits  in  Prison 235  I1' 

cf  Prison,  Spirits  in.2I5Gh  (Orr.) 
Peter,  The  Second  Epist  le 

of 2355"  (Moon-head) 

Claim    to    Petrine   au- 
thorship   23.")ti;L 

Compared  with  Jude.  .  17(19"  (Mooreheadj 

Doctrinal  teachings .  .  .  235G'1 

External  evidence 2355" 

Internal  evidence 2355'1 

cf  Peter  (Simon) 234X1'  (Gray) 

Quoted  by  Jude 235Gb 

cf  Jude,  Epistle  of.  .1707''  (Moon-head) 

Saving  knowledge 2357" 

cf  Simon  Magus 279G1'  (Rutherfurd) 

Style  and  diction 2355'' 

cf  Supply 2S711'  (Easton) 

Three  worlds,  the 2357'' 

Peter,  Simon 234S1'  (Gray) 

Character  of 2349'' 

Confession  of 1G4X>>  (Orr> 

Denial  of  Jesus 1661"  (Orr; 

Disj)ute     with     Simon 

Magus 279G1'  (Rutherfurd) 

In  Galatians 1  1GO'>  (G.  G.  Findlay) 

On  inspiration 1474b  (War(ield) 

cf    Joseph    of    Arima- 

thaea 17411'  (Kerrj 

Keys  given  to 1794"  (Carver; 

cf  Law  in  NT 1S471'  (M'Caig) 

Life  story  of 2349" 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of.  .  .  .  19S91'  (Farmer) 

Name    and     iirst     ap- 
pearance  234S'1 

cf  Peter,  First  Epistle 

of 23511'  (Moon-head) 

cf  Peter,  Second  Epis- 
tle of 23")")"  (Moon-head) 

Restoration  of 1(1(1(1"  «  )rr 

Theology  of 2350'' 

Writ  ings  of 2350" 

Pc-thahiah 2358" 

cf  Patheus 22(13' 

Pethor 235X'  (Pinches) 

Pethuel 2358° 

Petition 2358"  (East on) 

Potra 

cf  Xabataeans 21071'  (Angus) 

cf  Sela.  .  .  .2713'"  (Ewing) 


Peulthai,  Peullethai 
Phaath  Moab 

cf  Pahath-moab 
Phacareth 

cf  Sabie 

Phainon  (Punon)  .  .  . 

Phaisur 

Phaldeus.  . 


.  23.J8b 

.  235Xh  (Angus) 

.  2207"  (Wallace) 

.  2358'' 

.  2(130" 

.  2506" 

.  235X'> 

.235X'- 


Plialeas .235S1' 

Phalec 2:j;-)S'' 

1'halias -2-\:>^' 

Phallu 

cf  Pallu 223.> 

Phalti 

cf  Palti 223(1'' 

Phaltiel 235S'' 

cf  Paltiel  (Psaltielj.  .  .22361' 
Phanuel 2:J5S'- 

cf  Peniel 229S-  (lowing) 

Pharakim,  Pharacim  .  .  .  .2359" 
Pharaoh 2359"  (Kyle) 

«•!'  Slave,  Slavery 2X15"  (Raffety) 

cf  Tahpenes 2903" 

I'se  of  name  in  Bible.  .2359" 

I'se  of  name  in  Egypt .  2359" 
Pharaoh  Hophra 2359"  (Xicol) 

Alliance  with  Zedekiah  2359b 

Palace  of 2359!' 

Reception  of  Jer(-miah 

and  Jews 23591' 

Pharaoh-necoh 23(10"  (Xicol) 

Battle  of  Carchemish.  .23(10" 

Battle  of  Megiddo.  .  .  .23(10" 

cf  Jehoiakim 1579"  (Genung) 

Revolt  of 572"  (Xicol) 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  .  .2775>>  (Xicol) 

Pharaoh's  Daughter 23(10b  (Kyle) 

Pharathon 23<K)b  (Ewing) 

cf  Pirathon 2400"  (Ewing) 

Phan-s 23GOb 

Phan-x,  Perez 232()b;  23G1" 

cf  Phoros 23G1";  2392" 

Pharida  (Pharira) 23G1" 

Pharisees 23G1"  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

458"  (Dosker) 

cf  Asmoneans 2X3"  (Dosker) 

Attitude  toward  "peo- 
ple of  the  land" 23(14" 

Doctrines  of 23G21' 

cf  Ilasidaeans 13421'  (Hutchison) 

History  of 23(llb 

Jesus  and  the- 23G5" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1G24"  (Orr) 

cf  Josephus  Flavins.  .  .  1742"  (Wenley) 

f/iter  history  of 23G2" 

Xame  and  character  .  . 23(11" 

XT  references 23G41' 

In  XT  times 2362" 

Organization 2363b 

Origin  of 23G11' 

cf  Pauline  Theology. .  .22X9"  (Easton) 

cf  Phvlacterv 23921'  (Mack) 


3338 


GENERAL INDEX 


Pharisees — continued 
Regulations 2304" 

cf  Sadducees 26581'  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Text  of  Script  un> 2363b 

Traditions 2363" 

Pharosh 

cf  Parosh 22481' 

Pharpar 23G5b 

cf  Amana 113a  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

Pharzites 

cf  Perez 23201'  (Wallace) 

Phaseah 23651' 

cf  Paseah 2255" 

Phaselis 2365''  (Hanks) 

cf  Lycia 1943-  (Banks) 

Phasiron 2365'' 

Phassaron 

cf  Phassurus 2365'' 

Phassurus 2365'' 

cf  Phaisur 2358b 

Phebe 

cf  Phoebe 2386"  (S.  E.  Hunter) 

Phenice 

cf  Phoenicia 2381V  (Porter) 

cf  Phoenix 2301"  (Calderj 

Phenicia 

cf  Phoenicia 2386"  ^ Porter) 

Pheresites 2366" 

Pherezite 2366" 

Phi-beset  h 

cf  Pi-beset  Ii 23'. » I1'    Kyle) 

Phicol,  Phichol 2366" 

Philadel])hia 2366"  (Hanks) 

Philarches 

cf  Phylarch 2393b 

Pliilemon 23661'  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

cf  Philemon,  Epistle  to2366b  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

cf  Philippians,  Epistle 

to 2372"  (Haves) 

Philemon,  Epistle  to.  .  .  .2366''  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

Authenticity 2367" 

Contents 2367" 

cf  Philemon 23661'  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

cf    Philippians,  Epistle 

to 2372"  (Havesi 

Place  of  writing 23661' 

Philetus 2367''  (Ruthcrfurd! 

cf  Hymenaeus 1444"  (Rutherl'unl) 

Philip,  the  Apostle 2368"  (Kerr) 

cf  Andrew 131"  (Kerr) 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  1 '.).")"  (Hutchison) 

Apocryphal  references .  2368" 

Character 2368b 

cf  Joseph   of  Arima- 

thaea 17411'  (Kerr) 

NT  references 2368" 

Philip,  the  Evangelist  .  .  .23G81'  (S.  E.  Hunten 

cf  Ethiopian  Eunuch.  .  103  lh  (Kerr) 

cf  Simon  Magus 2795b  (Rutherfiirdj 

Philip  (general) 23671'  (Hutchison) 

cf  Perseus 232Sb  (Angus) 


Philip,  The  Gospel  of 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  195"  (Hutchison) 

cf  Philip,  the  Apostle. 2368"  (Kerr) 
Philip  of  Macedon 2367b  (Hutchison) 

cf  .Macedonia 1957"  (Tod) 

Philip,  the  Tetrarch 

cf  Herod 13781'  (Dosker) 

Philippi 2369"  (Tod) 

Churchin 23711' 

History 236!)" 

cf  Lydia 1943''  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Macedonia 1957"  (Tod) 

Xame  and  position..  .  .2369" 

cf  Xeapolis 2126"  (Tod) 

Paul's  visits  to 23691' 

cf  Philippians,  Epistle 

to 2372"  (Hayes) 

cf  Proseuche 24691' 

Roman  elements  in  .  .  .2370'' 

cf  Samothrace 267")"  (Kinsella) 

Philippians,   The  Epistle 

to 2372"  (Hayes) 

Characteristics   of    the 
church 2372" 

Contents 237.")" 

Date,  place  and  occa- 
sion  2374b 

cf  Kenosis 1792"  (Easton) 

Love  and  joy 23731' 

Xature  of  the  Epistle  .  23721' 

Paul  and  the  church.  .2372" 

cf  Philemon,  Epistle  to  2366b  (C.  S.  Lewis) 

cf  Philippi 2369"  (Tod) 

cf  Praetorian  Guard..  .24271'  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  I'roseuche 2469b 

Theological     impor- 
tance   2374a 

Philistia 2376"  (Porter) 

cf  Philistines 2376b  (Conder) 

Philistim 

cf  Philistines 2376b  (Conder) 

Philistines 2376b  (Conder) 

cf  Ashtaroth 270"  (Ewing) 

Cretan  theory 2378b 

David's  guards 2379" 

Egyptian    and    Assyr- 
ian references 237<Sb 

Government 2377" 

History 2377b 

cf  Hit  tiles 139.-)''  (Conder) 

cf  Judah 1759"  (Weir) 

cf  Lords  of  the  Philis- 
t  ines 1929b 

Monumental  remains.  .2378" 

Xanies  mentioned.  .  .  .2377" 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2233h  (Cobern) 

cf  Philistia 2376"  (Porter) 

Race  and  origin 2376b 

Religion  of 2377a 

cf  Samuel 2677a  (Geden) 

cfSaul..  .  .2698"  (Weir) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3339 


Philistines,  Lords  of  the.  1929b 

cf  Philistia 2376"  (Porter) 

Philistines,  Sea  of  the 

cf  Mediterranean  Sea .  2026b  (Heidol) 
Philo  Judaeus.  .  .  .2:5X0"       (Wenley);        6x.Y> 

(Oko);    99Xb  (.1.  E.    II. 
Thomson) 
Changes       and       new 

problems 2380" 

cf  Logos 1913b  (Alexander) 

ef    Mediation,    Media- 
tor  2021a  (Edwards) 

ef  Paraclete 2215"  (MullinsJ 

Period 2380" 

cf  Philosophy 23S3"  (Rccs) 

Task 23SOb 

Themes  treated 23811' 

cf  Wisdom 3092"  (Easton) 

Philologus 2383"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Philometor 

cf  Ptolemy 2499b  (Angus) 

Philosophy 2383"  (Reesj 

cf  Covenant  (in  OT) .  .  727"  (Berry) 
Definition  and  scope .  .  2383" 

cf  God 1250"  (Recs) 

Greek 2384" 

cf  Logos 191  lb  (Alexander) 

XT  references 2385" 

OT  and  Judaism 2384b 

cf     Persian     Religion, 

Ancient 2331b  (Tisdall) 

cf  Philo  Judaeus 2380"  (Wenley) 

cf  Righteousness 2591"  (McConnell) 

cf  Stoics 2854b  (Rees) 

cf  Truth 3025"  (Carver) 

cf  Wisdom 3089a  (Easton) 

Phinces 2385b  (Angus) 

cf  Phinoe 2385b 

Phinehas 2385b  (Wallace) 

cf  Hophni  and  Phine- 
has  1421"  (Wallace) 

cf  Putiel 2511" 

Phinoe 2385b 

cf  Paseah 2255" 

cf  Phaseah 2365b 

cf  Phinees 2385b  (Angus) 

Phinon  (Punon) 2506" 

Phlegon 2385b 

Phoebe 2380"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Phoenice 

cf  Phoenix 2391"  (Calder) 

Phoenicia,  Phoenicians .  .  2386a  (Porter) 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

Arts  and  crafts 2388a 

cf  Ashtoreth 270b  (Sayce) 

cf  Coins 673"  (Porter) 

Colonies 2387a 

Commerce  and  trade .  .  238Sb 

cf  Glass 1233"  (Porter) 

cf  Gold 1274"  (Patch) 

History 2390a 

cf  Ladder  of  Tyre 1821a  (Porter) 


Phoenicia,  Phoenicians     -continued 
Land.  ...  .  .23X6" 

Language  and  culture  .  2389" 

People 23X71' 

cf  I'tolemais 249'.)' 

Religion 2:5X11" 

cf  Ships  and  Boats..  .  .2775''  (Xicol) 

cf  Sidoii  (place) 27X5"  (Porter) 

cf  Syria 2XX1"  (Christie) 

cf  Tyre 3030b  (Porter) 

Phoenix 2:591"  (Calder) 

cf  Crete 744''  (Calder) 

Harbor  in  Grot  c 2391'' 

cf  Literature,  Sub-apos  1X97"  (Cowan; 

Location 239 11' 

cf  Northeast 21551'  (Day) 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle..  .22X6''  (A.  T.  Robertson) 
Reference  in  Acts  27  .  .2391b 

cf  Salmonc 2663b 

Phoros 2392" 

cf  Pharez 2361" 

Phrurai 2392" 

cf  Purim 2506b  (Mack) 

Phrygia 2392"  (Banks) 

cf  Pacatiana 2206" 

Phrygian      Immigrations 

to  Asia  Minor 274b  (Calder) 

Phurah 

cf  Purah 2506" 

Phurim  (Phrurai) 2392" 

Phut 

cf  Put 2510"  (Pinches) 

Phuvah 

cf  Puah 2501"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Phygelus  (Phygellus)..  .  .2392b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Ilermogenes 1377b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Persecution 23231'  (Rutherfurd) 

Phylactery 2392b  (Mack) 

Bible  references 2392b 

Description 2393" 

cf  Fringes 11461'  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

cf  Frontlets 1147" 

Interpretation 2393b 

cf  Libraries 1886"  (Richardson) 

cf  Pharisees 2361"  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Phylarch 23931' 

Phylarches 

cf  Phylarch 2393'- 

Physician 2393b  (Macalister) 

Ancient  references ....  2393b 

NT  references 2394" 

Priest  as 2394" 

Physiography 314b 

Pi-beseth 2394b  (Kyle) 

Picture 2394b  (T.  Lewis) 

Piece 2394b  (T.  Lewis) 

Piece  of  Gold 23941' 

cf  Money 2076"  (Porter) 

Piccnof  Money 2394b 

Piece  of  Silver 2395a 

cf  Money 2076"  (Porter) 

cf  Silverling 2793" 


3340 


(GENERAL  INDEX 


Piety 2395" 

Pigeon 2395"  (Stratton-Portor) 

Characteristics 2395a 

cf  Dove 871a  (Stratton-Porter) 

rf  Food 1124a  (Eager) 

References  to 2395b 

Pi-hahirotli 2396"  (Kyle) 

cf  Goshen 12SO:1  (Condcri 

Pilate,  Acts  of 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels. 195"  (Hutchison) 

cf  Pilate,  Pontius 2390"  (,J.  M.  Wilson! 

Pilate,  Pontius 2396"  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels. 195"  (Hutchison; 

Character 239S" 

cf  Gabbatha 1150'"  (Masterman) 

cf  Governor 12S9b  (Ileidel) 

cf  Jerusalem Kill1'  (Mastorman) 

Jesus  and 2397a 

cf  Jesus  Christ    (Trial 

before  Pilate) 1(5(51"   (Or);   1(572"   (Mae- 

laren) 

Name  and  office 2396" 

cf  Procurator 21571'  (Allen, 

Procuratorship  of 239(5'' 

cf  Province 2485''  (Allen) 

Traditions 23971' 

Pildash 239X'> 

Pile 2398'' 

cf  Topheth 29991'  iMastennan) 

Pileha 

cf  Pilha 2398'- 

Pilgrim,  Pilgrimage 239S1' 

Pilha 239S'> 

Pill 

cf  Peel 2295"  (Easton) 

Pillar 239S>>  (Orr) 

cf  Gezcr 12231'  (MastormaiH 

cf  High  Place 1390-  (Kaston) 

cf  Image 1450"  (Edwards  :• 

cf  Jachin  and  Boaz .  .  .1547''  (Caldecott  i 

cf  Obelisk 21 77'' 

Pillar  of  Cloud  and  Fire.  2399"  (Orr);   070'"  (Joy) 

Pillar,  Plain  of  the 24()7b  (Ewing) 

Pillar  of  Salt 

cf  Lot 19291'  (Boyd) 

cf  Slime 2817''  (Day) 

Pillars  of  the  Earth 

cf  Astronomy 3001'  (Maunder) 

Pillow 

cf  Bolster 494b  (Eager) 

cf  Cushion 7(59"  (Downer) 

Pilot 

cf  Ships  and  Boats..  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 
Pillai 2399- 
Pin 2399"  (N.  Isaacs) 

cf  Crisping  Pins 748b 

cf  Stake 2847b 

Pine 

cf  Pining  Sickness      .  .  2399b  (Macalister) 
Pine  Tree 2399a  (Masterman) 

cf  Oil  Tree 2183"  (Alasterman) 

Pining  Sickness 23991'  (Macalister) 

Pinion 2400"  (Luering) 


Pinnacle 2400" 

Pinon 2400" 

Pipe 

cf  Candlestick 552b  (Eager) 

cf  Lamp I825a  (Porter) 

cf  Music.  .  2094b  (Millar) 

Pira 2100" 

cf  Caphira .50,8'';  (5021' 

Piram 2-100" 

Pirathon,  Pirathonite.    .  .2100"  (Ewing) 

cf  Pharathon 23(50b  (Ewing) 

Pisgah 2400"  (Ewing) 

Pishon,  Pison 2  10()b 

Pisidia 2-1001'  (Calder) 

Paul  in 2101< 

Situation  and  history.  .2-100'' 
Pison 

cf  Pishon 24001' 

Pispa,  Pispah 2-101b 

Pit 2401b  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Abyss 26b  (T.  Lewisj 

cf  Hell 1371"  (Orr) 

cf  Water 3074"  (Joy) 

cf  Well 3081"  (Day) 

Pitch 21()lb  (Easton) 

cf  Slime 2817b  (Day) 

Pitcher 2101b 

Pit  horn 2401b  (Condor) 

cf  Etham 1012b  (Condor) 

cf  Exodus,  The 1052"  (Condor) 

cf  ( Joshen 12SOa  (Condor.) 

Name  and  meaning.  .  .2401b 

cf  Raamses 2520"  (Condor) 

Situation 2402" 

cf  Store-cities 28(53" 

cf  Suecoth 28(59"  (Condor) 

cf  Zoan.  .  .  .3153"  (Condor) 

Pithon.  .  .  2102" 

Pitiful .  .  .2402"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Pity 2402b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Compassion 695"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Mercy 2035b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Place.  .  . 21021' 

Place,  Broad,  High 

cf  City (5(52"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  High  Place 1390"  (Easton) 

cf  Open  Place 219(ib  (Easton) 

Plague 2402b  (Macalister);    91  lb 

(Petrie) 

cf  Fly,  Flies 1120b  (Day) 

Plagues  of  Egypt 2403"  (Kyle) 

Boils,  hail,  locusts.  .  .  .2405b 

cf  Burning  Bush 532b  (Kyle) 

cf  Firstborn,  Firstling.  11 13b  (T.  Lewis) 

Frogs,  lice,  flies 2404b 

Miraculous  features      ,2405b 

Moral  purpose 2406" 

Murrain  of  cattle 2405" 

Natural  phenomena. .  .2403b 

Water  turned  to  blood  2404" 

Words  used .  .  .  .  2403b 


CENEItAL  INDEX 


Plain .  . 

cf  Abel-cheramim 5b 

cf  Arabah 21 11-  (Wright) 

cf  Ciccar 655b 

cf  Circle 650'' 

cf  Meadow 2013-  (Day) 

cf  Natural  Features.  .  .2122"  (Day) 

Plain,  Cities  of  the 660"  (Wright) 

Plain  of  Moah 2-107" 

cf  Moab 20091'  (Porter) 

Plain  of  the  Pillar.  .       .  .2407'-  (Irving) 

cf  Meonenim,  Oak  of..2033b 

Plain,  Plainly 2407 

Plain  of  the  Vineyards 

cf  Abel-cheramim 5h 

Plaister 

cf  Plaster 2408" 

Plaiting 24071' 

cf  Braided,   Braiding.  .513'' 
Plane 

cf  Tools 2998b  (Easton) 

Plane  Tree 2407'1;  507b  (Masterman) 

Planets 

cf  Astrology 295h  (Maunder) 

Plank 24071' 

cf  Ships  arid  Boats..  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 
Plant,  Plants 

cf  Botany 505"  (Masterinan) 

Plaster 24071'  (Patch);  2408" 

Plastering 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

Plate 2408"  (Betteridge) 

Plato 1017b  (Alexander) 

cf  Logos 1912"  (Alexander) 

Platter 2408"  (Pollard) 

Play 

cf  Games 11GS1'  (Smith) 

Plead,  Pleadings 2408"  (Easton) 

Pleasure 2408b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Pledge 240S1'  (Easton) 

cf  Earnest SS6b  (Schenk) 

cf  Surety 2872"  (Reeve) 

Pleiades 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Astronomy 31 11'  (Maunder) 

cf  Influences 1468"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Pleroma 

cf  Fulness 1148b  (Rutherfurd) 

Pliny 1000"  (J.  E.  II.   Thomson* 

cf  Persecution 2326"  (Rutherfurd) 

Plow 2409"  (Patch) 

Figurative  use 24091' 

Form  of 2409" 

cf  Furrow 1150"  (Patch) 

Words  for 2409b 

Pluck  Asunder 316b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Plucking  Off  the  Hair 

cf  Hair 1320"  (Luering) 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirschj 

Plumb-line,  Plummet 

cf  Tools 2998h  (Easton) 


Pochereth-hazzebaini. .  .  .2410' 

cf  Phaeareth 2358'> 

Poet 2410"  (Schenk) 

Poetry,  Hebrew 2410"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Definition 2410" 

cf  Divination.  .  .  .X60"  (T.  W.  Daviesj 

h'orins 24 II'1 

Internal  charactei'ist  ics2  H3'1 

Neglect  of 24 101' 

Parallelism.  .  .2411" 

Poetical  writings  of 
OT 2414' 

cf  Poetry,  NT 24141'  (Schenk) 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of. .  .  .2491'-  iSampry) 
Poetry,  NT 241  I1'  (Schenk ) 

Examples  of 241  I1' 

cf  Faithful  Sayings 1091"  (Rutherfurd) 

Paul's  use  of 24141' 

cf  Poetry,  Hebrew 2410"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Quotations,  XT.  .  .  .2519''  (Sweet) 
Points 2415"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Prayers  of  Jesus. .  .  .2431''  (Bevan) 

c  f  T  e  in  p  t  a  t  i  o  n   o  f 

Christ 2943"  (Anderson) 

Poison 2115"  (Macalister) 

Pole 24151' 

Policy 2415'- 

Polished 

cf  Corner-stone 7211'  (Mack) 

Poll 2415''  (Luering) 

cf  Hair 1320"  (Luering) 

Pollution 2416" 

Pollux 

cf  Dioscuri 851"  (Maunder) 

Polycarp,  Epistle  of 

cf  Literature,  Sub-apos  19001'  (Cowan) 

Polygamy 2416"     (Caverno);      1095" 

(Caverno) 

cf  Divorce,  NT  and  OT805"  (Caverno);   863b  (W. 
W.  Davies) 

cf  Eunuch 1037"  (Eager) 

cf  Family 1094b  (Caverno) 

cf  Marriage 1998"  (Eager) 

Meaning 2416" 

Origin 2416" 

In  the  OT 2416b 

cf  Punishments 2506"  (Hirsch) 

Weakness  of 2417" 

cf  Woman 3100"  (Pratt) 

Pomegranate 2417b  (Masterinan);  1123" 

(Eager) 
Pommel 241Sa 

cf  Bowl oil1'  (Eager) 

Pond 

cf  Cistern 657b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Pool 2419b  (Day) 

Ponder 2418" 

Pontius 

cf  Pilate,  Pontius 2396"  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

Pontus 2418"  (White) 

cf  Archaeology  of  Asia 

Minor .  .  .  .  277"  (White) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


rout  \\x—c<»tliitHf(l 

cf  Bithynia 183"  (White) 

Christianity  in 24  l():i 

History 21  IS'1 

Location 2118" 

cf  Persecution 2323b  (Rufherfnrd) 

Pool,  Pond,  Reservoir.  .  .2  II*)1'  (Dav) 

(if  Cistern Go7b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Jerusalem 1G101'  (Masicrman) 

<'f  I-iki: 1S22"  (Day) 

cf  Natural  Features.  .  .2122"  (Day) 

cf  Peed 2r>14"  (Masterman) 

cf  Water 3074"  (Joy) 

cf  \\'ell 3081"  (Day) 

Pools  of  Solomon 

cf  Cistern G57b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Pool 2419b  (Day) 

]>"or -M20"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Alms !()!'>  (Eager) 

XT  references 12421" 

OT  references 2120" 

cf  Poverty 242(1''  (\\.  Evan.) 

cf  Quiet  •  .  2.-.1.V-  L\I.  O.  Evans) 

I'"!)!:"- 21211'  (Masterman);  :>()7l> 

cf  Mulberry  Trees.  .  .  .20!):)''  (Masterman) 
Poppaea 

cf  Xfro 213:>b  (Aliens) 

Poratha 242 1'1 

Porch 2421b 

cf  Porch,  Portico,  Solo- 
mon's  21211'  iCaldecott) 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Porch,       Portico,       Solo- 
mon's  211' I1'  (Caldecott) 

cf  Porch 242 1'1 

Porcius 

cf  Festus,  Porcius.  .  .  .1107"  i.Kerr) 

Porcupine 242 11'  (Day) 

cf  Bittern 4S4"  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Hedgehog 13(57" 

(>i'  ()\vl 22().V>  (Strat  ton-Port erj 

cf  Serpent 273S"  (Day) 

Porphyry 2422";     1000"     (,J.    E.    II. 

Thomson) 

Porpoise 2422" 

cf  Badger 37(1''  (Day) 

cf  Sealskin 2709b 

Port,  Porter 2422"  (East on) 

cf  Doorkeeper $09"  (Hovey) 

Portion 2422b  (East  on) 

Posidonius 2422b 

Possess,  Possession 2422b  (East on; 

Possession,  Demoniacal 
cf   Demon,   Demoniac, 

Demonology S27b  (Sweet) 

P»«t 2423"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

rf  C.nard 1307b  (Xicol) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

P»t 2423»  (Betteridge) 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager) 

cf  Pan 22.37"  (Betteridge) 

Potentate 2423a 


Potiphar 2423" 

Poti-phera 2423"  (Kyle) 

Potsherd 24231' 

<•('  Harsit  h 1341" 

cf  Ostra,ca 2202b  ((Joodspeed) 

cf  Potter,  Pottery 24231'  (Pat,eh; 

Potsherd  Gate 

cf  Gate,  East H70b  (Caldecott,) 

cf  Harsh  h 134 111 

Pottage 

cf  Food H21>>  (Eager) 

Potter,  Pottery 2423b  (Patch) 

Biblical  references.  .  .  .212,")'' 

<'f  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Earthen  Vessels.  .  .  .SS7b  (Patch) 

Forms 2424" 

History  of 2  1231' 

Methods 2424" 

<-f  <>strju::i 22021'  (Goodspeed) 

cf  Potsherd 2423b 

cf  Tools 299Sb  (Easton) 

cf  Vessel 3049"  (Easton; 

cf  Wheel .  .  ....  3()82b  (Easton) 

Potters'  Field 

cf  Akeldama S9"  (Masterman) 

Pound 24201'  (Porter) 

cf  Maneh 19S1"  (Porter) 

cf  Wedge  of  Gold 3078b  (Porter) 

cf  '\Yeighfs  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Poverty 2420b  (W.  Evans) 

Degrees  and  causes.  .  .2427" 

OT  references 24201' 

cf  Poor 2420"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Powders 2427b 

Power 24271'  (Orr) 

cf  Omnipotence 21SS1'  (Vos) 

Power  of  Keys 1794"  (Carver) 

Praetorian  Guard 2427b  (Rutherf urd) ;    2",$b 

(Allen) 

Interpretation 2428" 

Paul  and  the 2428" 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle.  .22G4b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 
cf  Philippians,  Epistle 

to  the 2372"  (Hayes) 

cf  Praetorium 2428b  (Masterman) 

Reference  in  Phil  1  13.24271' 

cf  War 30G9b  (Xicol) 

Praetorium 2428b  (Masterman) 

cf  Gabbatha 11.501'  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 1020"  (Masterman) 

cf  Judgment  Hall 1 777b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Praetorian  Guard..  .2427b  (Rutherfurd) 

Pntise 2429"  (Lambert; 

God  the  object  of 2429b 

Man  the  object  of .  .  .  .2429a 

cf  Persecution 2323b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Singers,  Singing 2S04b  (Millar) 

cf  Worship 3110a  (Crannell) 

Prayer 2430a  (Lambert) 

In  ancient  Greece 1302a  (Fairbanks) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3343 


Prayer — continued 

NT  instances    .  .  .2  ISO1' 

OT  cases 2430" 

<;f  Paulino  Theology.    .2289"  (Easton) 

cf  Prayers  of  Jesus..  .  .2131''  (Bevan) 

cl'  Repetitions IT);")')1'  (Easton) 

Prayer  of  IIa))akkuk 

c:f  Beth-horon,  Battleofl  16h  (Maunder) 

cf  Habakkuk 131 1"  (Eiselen) 

Prayer,  Hours  of 1434:i  (Dosker) 

Prayer  of  Joseph 1741'1  (Easton) 

Prayer,  Lord's 19201'  (Miller) 

Prayer  of  Manasses 19791'  (T.  \V.  Davies  i 

Prayers  of  Jesus 2431b  (Bevan) 

ef  Intercession 1484"  (Bevan) 

cf     I nt ere  ess  ion     of 

Christ 14S71'  (Bevan  ! 

Other  prayers 24 321' 

cf  Points 2115"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Prayer 2-130"  (Lambert) 

Prayer  in  John  17         . 2432" 

Teaching  in  regard  to 

prayer 2  (31'' 

Preacher,  Preaching 2133"  (Bauslin) 

Biblical  references .       .2133'' 

Christ  as  preacher.  .  .  .2131'' 

Need  and  limitat  ionsof  2-133" 
Precept 24341'  (Edwards) 

cf  Commandment (>79b  (Jacobs) 

Precious 2434b  (Edwards) 

Precious  Stones 2856"  (Fletcher) 

Precipitation 

cf  Punishments 2f>04b  (Hirsch; 

Predestination 2435"  (J.  Lindsay);    113()b 

(I  lodge) 

Doctrine  of 2435" 

cf  Election 925b  (Dunelm) 

cf      Foreknow,      Fore- 
knowledge  1128"  (Hodge) 

cf     Foreordain,     Fore- 
ordination  1 131"  (Orr) 

History  of  doctrine.  .  .2435b 

Nature      and      impor- 
tance  2435a 

cf  Pauline  Theology  .  .  .2289"  (Easton) 

cf  Providence 24761'  (Tillett) 

cf  Purpose  of  God .  .  .  .2510" 

Two  leading  views.  .  .  .2436" 

Preeminence 2437" 

Prefer 2437" 

Preparation 2437"  (Betteridgc) 

Presbyter,  Presbytery.  .  .2437b  (Mack) 

cf  Bishop 478b  (Dosker) 

cf  Church 65()b  (Lambert) 

cf  Elder,  NT  and  OT . 924"        (Grant);          923b 
(Stearns) 

cf  Government 1287"  (Heidel) 

cf  John,  Epistles  of .  .  .  1718"  (Law) 

cf  John,  Gospel  of.  ...  1721b  (Iverach) 

Principle   in    Scripture 
and  history 2438" 

Use  in  NT .  .  .  .  2437b 


Presence .... 

cf  Parousia 
Present 

cf  Gift 

Presently.  . 
President .  .  .  . 
Press 

cf  Vine .  . 


.2438"  (Easton) 
.2249"  (Easton) 

.1228"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

.  2438b 

.2438'- 

.2438b 

.30491'  (Masterinan) 


cf  Wine,  Wine  Pi-ess.  .3086"  (Easton) 

Pressfat 2438b 

cf  Wine,  Wine  Press.  .3080"  (Easton) 

Presume,    Presumptuous, 

Presumptuously  .  .      .  .2438b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Prevent 2438b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Prey 2439"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Booty 503b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  War,  Warfare 307  lb  (Nicol) 

Price 2439" 

cf  Dog 867b  (Day) 

Prick 2439"  (Edwards) 

cf  Goad 1248b  (Patch) 

Priest 2439"  (Moorehead) 

Aaron  and  his  sons. .  .  .2441a 
cf  Christ,  Offices  of.  .  .616b  (Bevan) 
Functions     and     char- 
acter  2440" 

cf  Mediation 2019b  (Edwards)     . 

M  e  1  c  h  i  z  e  d  e  k    and 

Aaron 2440" 

Nature  of  the  office  .  .  .2439'' 

cf  Priest,  High 2441b  (Reeve) 

Priest,  High 2441b  (Reeve) 

cf  Abiathar 7b  (Beecher) 

cf  Annas 137a  (Edwards) 

cf  Caiaphas 538b  (Kerr) 

cf  Christ,  Offices  of ...  616b  (Bevan) 

Dress  and  duties 2442" 

History  of  the  office. .  .2442b 

Institution 2441b 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1624"  (Orr) 

In  NT 2443b 

InOT 2443" 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle.  .22641'  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Priest 2439"  (Moorehead) 

cf  Priesthood 2444"  (Moorehead) 

cf  Priesthood  in  NT..  .2445"  (Estes) 

Priesthood 2444*  (Moorehead) 

Of  Christ 2024b  (Edwards) 

cf  Christ,  Offices  of.  .  .618"  (Bevan) 

cf  Maccabaeus 1952"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Micah 2()45b  (Lees) 

In  NT 2444b 

InOT 2444" 

cf  Priest,  High 244  lb  (Reeve) 

cf  Priesthood  in  NT..  .2445"  (Estes) 

Priesthood  in  the  NT .  .  .  2445"  (Estes) 

Jewish  priesthood 2445b 

cf  Priest,  High 2441b  (Reeve) 

cf  Priesthood 2444"  (Moorehead) 

Priesthood  of  believers  2446b 
Priesthood  of  Jesus  .  .  .  2445b 


3344 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Priests  and  Levites 24401'  (Wiener' 

Aaron  and  his  sons..  .  .24-19" 

cf  Agrarian  Laws 74"  (Wiener 

cf     Archaeology      and 

Criticism 226-'  (Kyle) 

cf  Blessing 487h  (Gray 

cf  Breastplate 2.")31)  (Xicol) 

cf  Cheniarini 001"  (Van  Pelt) 

Chronicles 245  lb 

cf  Criticism  of  Bible.  .  74S1'  (Orr) 

cf  Doorkeeper 869"  (Hovcy) 

cf  Dress S75b  (Eager) 

cf  Kphod 902"  (Sampcy) 

E/ekiel 2451" 

cf  First  Fruits 1114"  (Lovertoff) 

cf  Firstborn,  Firstling.  11 13b  (T.  Lewis 

cf  .Judge 17711'  (Lcvertoff) 

Legal  provisions 24. )2- 

cf  Levi 180Xb  (Ewing) 

Levites,  the 21  48- 

cf  Levitical  Cities 1869-  (Wiener 

cf    Mediation,    Media- 
tor  20 IS"  (Edwards) 

cf  Mitre 2007b  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Xethinim 2139b  (Lees) 

<  )ld  and  new  views. .  .  .2447- 

<  Mher  parts  of   Penta- 

teuch than  Levit  icus.2449b 

cf  Pentateuch 2298"  (Wiener) 

Priest  code,  the 2118- 

cf  Sacrifice,  XT 20") I'1  (Williams) 

cf  Sanctuary 20X01'  ( Wiener  i 

cf  Singers 2S041'  (Millar) 

cf    Sons   of   Solomon's 
Servants 

Sources,  tne 

cf    Stranger    and    S •>- 

journer  in  ()'!' 2805"  (Wiener) 

Tillies 29871'  (Levertoff) 

cf  I  "rim  and  Tlmmmim  30401'  (X.  Isaacs  i 

cf  Zabud 312S>>  (Roberts; 

cf  Zadok 3129b  (White-law  . 

Primogeniture 2  452b  (X.  Isaacs) 

Biblical  references    .     .2152'' 

cf  Birthright 478"  (.1.  M.  Wilson  i 

Double  portion 24521' 

cf  Firstborn.  Firstling    11 13''  (T.  Lewis', 

Law  of  firstborn 2453- 

Prince 2453"  (Baur) 

cf  Governor 12891'  (Heidel) 

Xasi 2454" 

Other  terms 2454:1 

Sar 21531' 

Terms  used 2453" 

Princes,  The  Seven 

cf  Prince 2453"  (Baur) 

Princess 245  lb  (Baur) 

Principal 2454b 

Principality 2454b  (Heidel) 

cf  Angel 132b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Satan  .  .  .  .  2f>93b  (Sweet ) 


Principles 

cf  Element 

cf  Rudiments 

Print,  Printing,  Printei 

cf  Book 

Early  writing 

cf  Ink-horn  

cf  Mark 

Materials 

cf  Seal 

cf  Text  and  MSSot'X' 

cf  Writ  ing 

Prisca,  Priscilla 


Prison,  Prisoner 

Cause's    for     imprisot 
ment 

Garments 

XT  usage 

cf  Punishments. .  . 

References  to 

Prison,  Spirits  in 

cf  Eschatology  of  NT 

cf     Peter,     The     I'ii 

Epistle  of 

Privy,  Privily 

cf  Tormah 

Prize 

cf  Grasp 

cf  Humiliat  ionof  ( 'hri 

cf  Kenosis 

Probation,  Second 

cf  Eschatology  of  X'l 

Prochorus 

Proconsul 

cf  Province 

Procurator 

Administral  ion  of. .  . 

cf  ( lovernor . 

List    of    Judaean    pr 
curators 

cf  Pilate,  Pont  his 

cf  Province 

cf  Rome1 

Profane 

Profess,  Profession. .  . 
Prognost icators.  Month 

cf  Astrology 

Prologue 

cf  John,  ( lospel  of .  . 

cf  Sirach 

Prolong 

Promise 

Proper 

Proper  Names . 
Property 

cf  Agrarian  Laws .  .  . 

cf  Patrimony 

cf  Poor 

cf  Portion 

cf  Primogeniture. .  .  . 

cf  Wealth  .  . 


.2024b  (Rutherfurd) 
2455"  (Richardson) 

.  195b  (Richardson) 
2455" 

.  1  1091'  (Richardson) 

.  1985b  (Pratt) 

.2155" 

.2708"  (Edwards) 

"295()b  (Sitterlvi 
3121"  (Richardson, 

.211-  (Kappj 

.  2  150-  i, T.  Lewis j 

.2450- 
.2450'' 
.2150'' 

.2504b  (Ilirsch) 
.2450" 
,2150b  (Orr 
979b  (Vos 


.2  lor' 

.  .21851'  (Allen) 
.  .21571'  (Allen) 

.215s- 

.  12S91'  (Ileidel 
'o- 
.  .2158- 

.2390-  (J.  M.  Wilson) 
.  .24X5''  ( Allen  i 
.  .2021b  (A lien  - 
.  .215Sb  (W.  L.  Walker) 

.215S''  (W.  L.  Walker) 
l.v 

.295"  (Maunder 
.  .  24581' 

.  .1720-  (Iverach) 
.  .2800b  (T.  W.  Davies) 
.  .2459-  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.  .2159"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
. .2459'' 
.  .2113-  (Davis 

.  .  71"  (Wiener) 

.  .  2204a  (Mack  i 

.  .2420-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

.  .2122b  (Easton) 

.  .2152''  (X.  Isaacs) 

.  .3070-  (W.  Evans) 


GENERAL  INDKX 


Prophecy,  Gift  of 
of  Spiritual  Gifts 

Prophecy,  Prophets, 
cf  Accommodation. 

Amos  and  Hosea  .  . 


. 2S43"  (Lambert 
.21f)9''  (Orelli; 
.30"  (S  \veet) 
.2463" 


cf  Apocalyptic   Litera- 
ture   lt> I1'   (.).    K.    II.  Thomson  i 

Contribution     of     lla- 

bakkuk 1313"  (Kiselen) 

Faithfulness 1313" 

Universality  of  Jeho- 
vah  1313" 

Contribution    of    Hag- 

gai 13 IS'1  (  Robinson) 

Necessity  of  rebuild- 
ing the  temple..  .  .  131.S1' 
Contribution  of  Ilosea  142Sb  (J.  Robertson) 

Divination 21(5(5';  SGO"  (T.  \V.  Da  vies) 

Dreams 2  1GO:1 

Elijah  and  Elisha 24(52'- 

Exilic  age 2  H53b 

cf  Foretell,  Foretold..  .1132" 

cf  Greece,  Religion  of . 1297"  (Fairbanks) 

History  of,  in  Israel.  .24(51'' 

Inspiration 2  1(50" 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .  l.~>30b  (Orelli) 

cf  Messiah 2039"  (Crichton  ) 

Messianic  idea 24G41' 

cf  Micaiah 2047"  (Lees) 

cf  Ministry 2()oSb  (T.  M.  Lindsay 

XT  examples 24(54" 

Xon-I  [ebre\v  prophecy  2  4G4b 
Prediction    and    fulfil- 
ment  24G1" 

cf  Prophesying*,  False .  246Gb  (Schenk) 

cf  Prophetess 24GGb  (Schenk; 

cf  Revelation 2.~>77-'1  (AA'arficld) 

Schools  of  prophets.  .  .24(52" 

Seer 24o9";  2713" 

cf  Shiloh 27GS1'  (Orr) 

Visions 24(50'' 

Prophesyings,  False 24(5(5b       (Schenk);        747b 

(Hirsch) 

cf  Prophecy 24o9b  (Orelli  ; 

Prophet,  The  O1<1 21  S31'  (Robert s> 

Prophetess 24f)ob  (Schenk) 

cf  Prophecy 24G()b  (Orelli) 

Propitiation 24(57:l  (Carver) 

cf  Atonement 32l;i  (Carver) 

cf  Atonement,  Day  of  .324''  (Moller) 
cf  Johannine  Theology  1701''  (Law) 
cf    Mediation,    Media- 
tor  20 IS-  (Edwards; 

cf  Mercy-seat,  The..  .  .2030"  (Caldecott ) 
cf  Pauline  Theology. .  ,22S9:l  (Eastonj 
cf  Reconcile,  Reconcil- 
iation  2530"  (M'Caig) 

cf  Romans,  Epistle  to. .  2017"  (Dunelm  ) 
Term  and  meaning..  .  .24G7" 
Theological  implication24G7b 
Proportion .  .  .  .  24G7b 


Proselyte ..  2-1(51 

NT  references.  .  21I5S1' 

OTf/tr 21(57'' 

Proselytixing 24G7:j 

cf  Rome 2(522"  (Allen; 

cf     Stranger    and     So- 

journer  in  OT  .  2S(5.r>'  (Wiener) 

Tahnudic  regulai  ions. .  2  1(59" 

cf    Tit  us,    or   Tit  i  us 

Justus 29S9!>  (Rutherfurd; 

Proselyte  Baptism 3M5"  (A.  T.  Robertson; 

Proseuche,  Proseucha  .  .  .21(59'' 

cf  Philippi 23G9-'1  (Tod 

Pros!  it  ut  ion 

cf  Crimes 717''  (Ilirscli 

cf  Harlot 1339''  (Eager; 

cf  Punishments 2.")04b  (Ilirsch; 

Prost  rat  ion 

cf  Attitudes 329"  (AV.  AV.  Davies) 

Protevangelium  of  James.  19S"  (Hutchison  ) 
Prove 24(59'-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Tempt 2942b  (Stuart) 

Provender 24(59''  (Masterman  i 

Proverb 24G9b  (Ccnung) 

Folk  meaning  and  use  2470" 

cf  Games HGSb  (Smith) 

Literary  growth 2470'' 

cf  Proverbs,  Book  of.  .2471''  (Genung) 

cf  AA'isdom 30S9"  (Kaston; 

AA'isdom  idea 2471" 

Proverbs,  Book  of 2471''  (Genung; 

Age   and    literary    kin- 
ship  ' 2474'' 

cf  Agur 7S"  (Getmng) 

Conception  of  AA'isdom  2474'1 

cf  Elezekiah,  The  Men 
of 13SSb 

cf  Job,  Book  of 1(579''  (Gemmiz 

cf  Lemuel ING")1'  (Genunjij 

X'ucleus,  and  later  ad- 
ditions  2472'' 

Philosophic  effort..  .     .2473b 

cf  Proverb 24(59''  (Genimg) 

Successive         compila- 
tions  2472:1 

Title  and  author 2471b 

cf  Wisdom 30S9"  (East on 

Providence 247(5''  (Tilled  i 

cf  Aflliction (5(5"  (Edwards 

Biblical  views 2477" 

cf  Choose,  Chosen.  .  .  .1512''  (Rees) 

Content  of  the  Biblical 
doctrine 24X1  ' 

Definition 24715'' 

cf     Foreordain,      Fore- 
ordination 1131"  (Orr) 

Free  will  and 24S31' 

cf    Israel,     History    of 

the  People ir,ll'>  (Orelli) 

Job 247Sb 

cf  Job,  Book  of 1G791'  (Genung; 

Natural  and  moral  evil  24S  I'1 


334G 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Providence—  continued 
NT  conceptions  2479'' 
OT  ideas  of  2477'' 
OT  ;ind  NT  ideas  com- 
pared    24SO'1 

Psaltery 
cf  Music  .     .  . 

2098b  (Millar) 
2494b 
174"  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson); 
457b  (Dosker) 

.198''  (Hutchison) 
2l94b  (Maraisj 
249.")'' 

2499" 
81  lb  (Bavinck) 
2498" 
1092"  (Bavinck) 
.  13501'  (MaraisJ 
1797''  (Easton) 
2197'' 
2497'' 
.2f>G2:i  (Easton) 

2494'' 
2496'- 
2721"  (Pratt) 
.  249.1" 
2837"  (Mantis) 
.2841''  (Marais) 
2496" 
2499" 
28"  (Porter) 
.2380*  (Porter) 

o  (OOb   1  \  •>-,! 

Psaltiel  

Pseudcpigrapha  

Pseudo-Mat  t  hew,     Ap<  >c 
ryphal  Gospel  of  
Psychology  

rf  Predestination  2430''  (.1.  Lindsay) 

Prophetic  ideas  of.  .  .  .2479'' 
Purpose  2482" 
Special  providence.  .  .  .24X2'' 
Spheres  of                       2477" 

Creationism 

Death    and    immortal 
itv  

cf  Will                                308  ">"  (\\    I     Walker) 

Province                                "MX-")1'  (  Alien  i 

cf  Death  

Judaea                              948G" 

Fall  of  man  

Meanin"'                            ''48')13 

cf  Fall,  The  

cf  Pilate,  Pontius  2396"  (J.  M.  Wilson) 

cf  Heart  
cf  Kidneys  

Roman  administration  2480" 
Provocation..                .    .248G>>  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Monism  

Pauline  expressions  .  . 
cf  Resurrection  
Scope  of  Biblical  psy- 
chology   

Provoke  24SG1'  (W.  L.  Walker, 

Prudence  24XG1'  (W.  J..  Walker, 

cf  Wisdom  3089"  (East  on) 
Prudent  248G1'  (W.  L.  Walker 

Scripture  terms 

cf  Sensual 

Priming-hook 
cf  Hook             1  119"  (Easton) 

Soul,  the  
cf  Soul  

cf  Vine  3019''  (Masterman) 
Psalms 
cf  Astiph  2G2'>  (Millar) 
cf  Higgaion  13X91' 
cf  Hind  of  the  Morning, 
The  1393"  (M.  0.  Evans) 

cf  Spirit  
Trichotomy  

Ptolenuus 

cf  Acco  .... 

cf  Phoenicia  

cf  Jonath  Elem  Reho- 
kim  1730" 

cf  Macron 

19GOb  (Angus) 

cf  Septuagint  .  .  . 
Ptolemy  Philadelphia.  . 
cf  Septuagint  
Ptolemy  Soter  

.2722"  (Thackeray) 
.456''  (Dosker) 
.2723"  (Thackeray) 
.4f>Gb  (Dosker) 
'^oOl"  (V   D   Isaacs) 

cf  Mahalath  1965''  (Orr.) 
cf  Muth-labben  2102" 
cf  Palestine  2218'-  (Conder) 

Psalms,  Book  of  2487'  (Samper) 

(lospelin  the  Psalter.  .2492" 
Growth  of  2491" 

Publican 

0(11  C:i    f^u-ect  I 

Imprecatory  psalms.  .  .2491" 
Messianic  element  .  .  .  .2492'' 
Number  and  place.  .  .  .2487" 
Poetry  of  2491'' 

Publius 

.250  l:i  (Kerrj 

cf  Apocryphal  Acts    . 
cf  Melita  

1831'  (A.  F.  Findlay) 
.20L'9b  (Allen) 
2501"  (Rutherfurd) 
fit  '»(!"  (Jacobs) 
.2511" 
.2501'' 
-:>">10"  (  Pinches) 

cf  Poetry,  Hebrew.  .  .  .2410"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
Problem  of  sin                2493' 

cf  Claudia 

Puhites  (Puthites)  
Pul    

Relation  of  David  to.  .2489" 
cf  Selah  209G1'  (Millar) 

cf  Put 

cf  Shiggaion              .    .27G7'1 

cf  Tiglath-pileser.  .  .  . 
Pulpit 

.2980''  (Nicol) 
250  lb 

Speaker  in  the  2492" 

Superscriptions  2487'' 

2501b 

Temple  psalms              .2490'' 

Punishment,  Everlasting 

250  lb  (Orr) 
oruyib 

Title  2487" 

Psalms  of  David  79.")''  (Weir) 
Psalms,  Imprecatory 
cf  Psalms,  Book  of  2494"  (Sampey) 
Psalms  (Psalter)  of  Solo- 
mon 
cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture                         .      lGlb  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Eschatology  of  NT 
cf  Eschatology  of  OT. 
cf  Gulf  
cf  Hell    

979''  (Vos) 
972"  (Orr) 
.1310''  (M.  O.  Evans) 
.  1371"  COrr) 

cf   Immortal,     Immor- 
tality            1461"  (Orr) 

Nature  of  punishment. 
Probation                   .  . 

.  2503b 
.2503b 

cf  Between  the  Testa- 
ments                           455"  (Dosker) 

cf  Restoration  

,2561b  (Miller) 

cf  Messiah.  .                 .  .2042"  (Crichton) 

cf  Retribution.  . 

.2570a  (M'Caig) 

GENERAL  INDEX 


Punishment ,  Everlast  ing  —continued 
Scriptural  teaching..  .  .2502" 

Survival  of  death 250 11' 

Universal  salvation  .  .  .2503" 

cf  Unquenchable  Fire.  .303X"  (Orr) 

Punishments 25041'  (Ilirsch) 

cf  Brand 514" 

cf  Burning 532" 

Capital  punishments.  .2505" 

cf  Eunuch 1037"  (Eager) 

Foreign  punishments.  .2505'' 

cf  Hanging 13)55''  (Ilirsch) 

Hebrew  law 2504" 

cf  Herod 137Xb  (Dosker) 

cf  Law  in  NT 1X44"  (M'Caig) 

cf  Polygamy .211G"  (Caverno) 

cf  Prison 245G"  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Scorpion 27()3b  (Day) 

cf  Scourging 2704"  (Dosker) 

cf  Seduce,  Seducer.  .  .  .2712"  (Edwards) 

cf  Slander 2X1  1>>  (Edwards) 

cf  Slavery 2X15"  (Raffety) 

cf  Stock 2S5  li- 
ef Uncleanness 303Gb  (Williams) 

cf  Visitation 305X"  (Edwards) 

Punitos 250G" 

Punon 250(>" 

cf    Wanderings    of    Is- 
rael  30G4"  (Condor) 

Pur 

cf  Purim 250(lb  (Mack) 

Purah 250(1" 

Purchase 250G"  (Easton) 

Pure,  Purely,  Purity.  .  .  .250Gb  (W.  L.  Walker i 

cf  Clean GG7"  (Crannell) 

cf  Purity 2507b  (Caverno) 

Purge 250(lb  (Mack) 

Purification 

cf  Purge 250Gb  (Mack) 

cf  Purity 2507b  (Caverno) 

cf  Uncleanness 303(ib  (Williams) 

Purim 250Gb  (Mack) 

cf  Agagite G9"  (Wolf) 

History  of 2507a 

Manner  of  observance  25()7a 

Origin 25071' 

cf  Phrurai 2392" 

Purity 2507b  (Caverno) 

Christ's  teachings 250'.)" 

cf  Divorce  in  XT XG5"  (Caverno) 

cf  Divorce  in  OT XG3b  (W.  W.  Da  vies; 

Prophetic  teaching..  .  . 250X" 

cf  Pure,  Purely 250(>b  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Sex  relations 2508" 

Song  of  Songs 250Xh 

cf  Unwashen 303X1'  (Williams) 

Purloining 2509b 

Purple 25091'  (Day) 

cf  Colors G74b  (Patch. 

cf  Dye,  Dyeing 8S3b  (Patch) 

Sidon 27X5"  (Porter; 


Purpose  of  God .  .  .  . 

cf  Foreordination 

cf  Predestination  . 
Purse 

cf  Bag... 
Purslain  Juice 

cf  Juice 

Purtcnance.  . 


.2.510" 

.1131"  (Orr) 
.243f>11  (J.  Lindsay  j 

.377"  (Eager; 


17SOb 

.  .  .2510- 
Put 2f>  10"  (Pinches; 

cf  Pul 2f)()lb 

Put  Asunder 31G1'  (S.  F.  Hunter; 

Puteoli 2f)10b  (Allen; 

cf  Nero 

Puthites 

I'utiel 

cf  Phinehas 

Puvah 

cf  Puah 

I'vgarg 2f,ll'>  (Day) 

cf  Zoology 31f>f>"  (Day; 

Pyramid 2f)llb  (Ewlng; 

Pyrrhus 2f)llb 

cf  Sopaler 2S3G" 

Python 2f)llb  (Easton) 

cf  Divination.  .  .  .SGO:i  (T.  A\'.  Davios; 


.2134b  (Angus; 
.2511a 

.2511" 

.23Sf,b  (Wallace) 

.2f)01"  (E.  I).  Isaacs) 


Qoph 

cf  Koph 

(^uail 

cf  Food 

cf  Moses 

cf  Partridge 

Quarrel 

Quarries ' .  .  .  . 

cf  Shebarim 

Quarter 

cf  Border 

cf  Coast 

Quart  us 

Quaternion 

Queen 

cf  King's  Mother.  .  .  . 

cf  Queen  of  Heaven  .  . 
Queen  of  Heaven 

cf  Queen 

Queen  Mother 

Biblical  references .  .  .  . 

cf  King's  Mother 

Mother  of  king 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily   

Queen  of  Sheba 

Quench 

Question 

Quick,  Quicken 

Quicksands 

cf  Syrtis 

Quiet 

cf  Meekness.  .  .  . 

cf  Poor 

Quintus  Memmius . 


1816b 

2512"  (Stratton-Porter; 

1124"  (Eager) 

20X7a  (Kyle) 

2254"  (Stratton-Porter; 

2512b 

251 2b  (Day) 

27531' 

2513" 

5()3b  (Ilirsch) 

G72"  (Day) 

2513" 

2513"  (Xir.nl) 

25 131'  (Baur) 

1808a 

2514"  (Nicol) 

2514"  (Nicol) 

251 3b  (Baur) 

25131'  (Baur) 

2514" 

1XOX" 

2513b 

.2554"     (N.     and     E.     D. 

Isaacs) 

.2514''  (Roberts) 
.2515"  (Gerberding) 
. 2515a  (Easton) 
.2515"  (Estes) 

.2886b 

.25151'  (M.  O.  Evans) 
.2027"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.2420"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
.  20301'  (Angus) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Quirinius 

cf   Chronology   of   the 

NT (>44b  (Armstrong) 

cf  Jesus  Christ  (Birth).  ll>2sb  (Orrj 


1767*  (Orr) 

193G1'  (A.  T.  Robertson; 

2515b 

2515b 

2.") l.")h  (Sweet; 

2'.)"  (Sweet ) 

251 9a 

2516b 


cf  Judas  of  Galilee 

cf  Luke,  Gospel  of 

Quit 

Quiver 

Quotations,  NT.  .  . 

cf  Accommodation 

Argument 

Authority  of  OT. . 

cf  Chronicles.  Books  of  629b  (Beecher; 

Examples  of 2.1  lGb 

cf  Immanuel 1  1571'  (A.  W.  Evans 

cf  Poetry,  NT  .  .  .2  11 11'  (Schonk) 

Prevision  of  Christian- 
ity in  OT 2.1 17b 

Unity  of  two  di>pensa- 
(ions 2.11  G:i 

cf  Virgin-birth 30.12"  >vSweet) 

Quotations  from  the  OT 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of. .  .  .  19SS"  (Farmer) 

cf  Matthew,  Gospel  of. 201 1"  i^Schodde; 

Raama,  Raamah 2.120"  (Fulton; 

Raamiah  (Reelaiah; 2-120';  2-1 15" 

Raamses,  Rameses 2.120"  (Conder) 

cf  Exodus,  The 10.12"  (Conder) 

cf  Exodus,   Book  of.  .  .  10.1Gb  (Mdllcr) 

cf  Goshen 12SO"  (Conder) 

cf  Pithom 2401b  (Conder) 

cf  Store-cities 2xf,3:1 

cf  Zoun 31.13"  (Conder) 

Rabbah 2.120''  (Ewing) 

Ammonite  capital 2.120'' 

Modern  site 2.12 11' 

References  to 2.121  ! 

Rabbi 2.122"  (Pollard; 

cf  Rabboni 2.122" 

cf  Talmud 

Rabbith 

Rabble 

Rabboni 2.122 l 

cf  Master 20071'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Rabbi 2.122"  (Pollard) 

Rab-mag 2.122"  (Clippinger) 

cf  Nergal-sharezer    .  .  .213-1'' 

cf  Rab-saris 2.1221'  (Clippinger) 

cf  Samgar-nebo 2G74'1  (Wolf) 

cf  Zoroastrianism 31.17"  (East on) 

Rab-saris 2522b  (Clippinger) 

cf  Assyria 2921'  (Sayce) 

cf  Rab-mag 2,122"  (Clippinger) 

cf  Tartan 2917"  (Eiselen) 

Rabshakch 2.122b  (Clippinger) 

cf  Tartan 2917"  (Eiselen) 

Raca 2.123"  (Edwards) 

cf  Rail,  Railing,  Railer  2525b  (W.  L.  Walkerj 

Racal 2523"  (N.  Isaacs; 

Race 

cf  Games HGSb  (Smith) 


2901''  (Strack 

;09a 


Races 

cf  Table  of  Nations. 

Rachab  (Rahab ) 

Rachal 

cf  Racal 

Rachel.  . 


Biography 

Character 

cf Jacob 

Rachel's  tomb 

tladdai 

Radiant 

Raft 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  . 
Raft  oi- 
cf  Gallery 

cf  House 

Rag 

liagau  (Apoc) 

Pages,  Ragau  (Apoc)..  . 
Haguel 

cf  Jethro 

cf  Relationships,   Fam 
ily.  . 


2523"  (N.  Isaacs) 

25231'  (Press);   449b  (Mas- 

terman) 
2523b 
25231' 
15.1()b  (Boyd) 

2.121" 

2524"  (M.  0.  Evans 

2771"  (Nicol) 

1107"  (X.  Isaacs; 
143  I1'  (A.  C.  Dickie; 
252  lb 
252  lb 

2121''  (Tisdalli 
252.1"  (N.  Isaacs) 
lG74b  (Crichton; 


cf  Reuel 

RagiiL-1  (Apoc) 

cf  Piapliael  (Apoc, 
Rahab 

cf  Astronomy .... 

cf  Faith  of 

Raham 

Rahel 

cf  P.achel 

Raid 

cf  War 

Rail,  Railing,  Railor. 

cf  Raca 

Raiment 

cf  Dress 

Raiment,,  Soft 

Rain 

Rainy  seasons. 

cf  Seasons 

Tables  of  rainfall .  . 

Water  supply    ... 

Rainbow 

liaise 

Raisin-cakes 

cf  Raisins 

Raisins 

Rakcm 

cf  Rekem 

Rakkath 

llakkon 

cf  Me-jarkon 

Ram  (animal) 

cf  Sheep 

Ram  (person) 

Ram.  Battering 

cf  Siege  


.2532b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 
.2525"  (N.  Isaacs; 
,300b  (Maunder) 
.  10SS"  (Dunclm) 
.2525b 


.30G9b  (Nicol; 

.  2525b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

.2523"  (Edwards) 

,S75b  (Eager) 
.  252.1b  (Eager) 
.2525''  (Joy) 
.2520" 

.2710b  (Joy) 
.2.12(1" 
25:>5>> 

.2527"  (Joy i 
.2527"  (\V.  L.  Walker 
. 2527" 

.2.127"  (Masterman) 
.2527"  (Masterman) 
.2527b 

.  2553b  (Wolf) 
.2527b  (Ewing) 


.27.16b  (Day) 
.  2527b  (Wolf) 

.27S6"  (Nicol) 


GENERAL IXDKX 


Rama  (Ramah) 

2527b 

Raphon  . 

2;132b  (Ewing 

Ramah 

->527b  (Ewing  i 

Raphu 

.  2o33a 
.2;133:i  (S.  F.  Hunter 
.  2533" 
.  123b 
2.133-  (Stratton-Porter 
.930''  (Farn 
2.133b 
.2533'- 
25331' 

Of  High  Place.    . 

cf  Mizpah  
Ramah  of  the  Sout  'i 
Ramath-lehi  
cf  Jaw,  Jawbone 
Ramath-mizpeh 
cf  Mi/pah  
Raiiiath:iini  
Ramathaim-zophim 
cf  Ramah  
Ranuithitc  ... 
Rameses  (Raamses) 
Itainiah 

.  .  .1390"  (Easton) 
.  .  .  2068"  (Ewing  ) 
.  .252Sb  (Ewing) 
.  .2r,2S1'  (Ewing) 
1572-  (M.  O.  Evans 
2529- 
.  .  .  20(iS:i  (Ewing: 

.  .   .252;)' 

.  .  ,2.")2S'  i.  lowing 
.  .  .  2529- 
.    2.120'  (Cornier) 
.  .  .  138'.)'>;  2.12!  i' 

.  .  1909'-  (Ewing) 
.  372-  (Rogers  ) 

Rasses  

Rathumus  (Apoc;  . 
cf  Beeltethmus. 
Raven 

cf  Elijah  .  . 
Raven,  Ravin  (verb,/. 
Razis  (Apoc;  
Razor  

cf  Barber 

.  103-  (Eager; 
.  1320-  (Lueringj 
2.1.']  1-  (Fdwirdsj 

cf  Hair  

Reading 

Ready 

'M.'i  1 

Reaiah  (IlaroelO  . 
cf  Joel 

2.i:j  1- 
Hi88-  (J    Robertson  < 

Ramloh 
cf  L»ul,  Lydda. 

Raminaii  

Reaping  
cf  Agricult  ure  
cf  Cleaning  

.2.1:51-  (Put  (;},,. 
.7.1b  (Patch. 
.  12311'  (Patch. 
n 
.2093-  (M.  0.  Evans) 
.2781-  (Patch) 
.2.131'' 
.781b  (Ewing 
.30G9b  (Xicol, 

.2.534'-  (\\\  L.  Walker) 
.2.131b 
2534b  (Bovd 

Ranimon-nirari  III.  . 
Rainoth  (person;  .  .  .  . 
cf  Jeremoth  
Rainoth  (place)  
cf  Jarmuth  
cf  R.emeth  
cf  Stones,  Precious. 
Ramoth-gilead 

.  .437''  (Nicol; 
.  .  .  2529- 
.  .  .1,191- 
.  .  .2529- 
.  .  .  1570-  (Mastermanj 
.  .  .  2557- 
.  .2S5ti-  (Fletcher) 
2.129-  (Ewing) 

cf  M  owing,  Mo  \v 
Crass 

cf  Sickle 

Rearward  
cf  Dan,  Tribe  of.  . 
cf  War  
Reason,    Reasonable 
Reasoning  
Reba  

cf  Cerasa,  Gerase:i> 
cf  Gilead 

.121S-  (lowing; 
12291'  (Ewing; 

Rebekah 

History 

2529" 

cf  Jacob  
Rebellion 
cf  Transgression  
Rebuke 

.  1550-  (Boyd; 

.300(ib  (Dungan 
''535-'1  (W    T,    W-dkeri 

Identification  
cf  Mizpah  
cf  Ramath-mizpeh  . 
cf  Refuse,  Cities  of 
Ranioth  of  the  S  -nth 
cf  Hamah  
Rampart 
cf  Fortification  .... 
Ram's  Horn. 
cf  Music  

.  .  .  2529b 
.  .  .  2068"  (Ewing; 
.  .  .  2529- 
.  .2.11,1''  (Ewing) 

.  .2.12S1'  (living) 
.  .  1136''  (Xicoli 

.  .2091''  (Millar. 
253O 

Recah 

2535b 

Receipt  of  Custom 
cf  Custom  

.709-  (Beta-ridge) 
2535b 

Receiver 

Rechab,  Rechabites.  .  .  . 
cf  Jehonadab  

.2,13.1''  (Mack) 
.1580a  (Roberts, 
.  1  792:i  (Ewing) 

cf  Kenites  

cf  Dye,  Dyeing.  .  .  . 
cf  Tabernacle  
Ran°'e 

.  .8S3b  (Patch) 
.  ,2887b  (Caldecott;  Orr) 
l)530"  (Ivi^ton) 

cf  \azirite.  .     .  . 

.2124"  (Christie) 
2.13.  >'' 

Rechah 
cf  Recah 

Rank  ...       . 

2530a 

Reclining 
cf  Meals  2()13b  (Eager) 
cf  Triclinium  3011!l  (X.  Isaacs. 
Reconcile,         Reconcilia- 
tion                                     2fv!r>  ('M'Ca,iV) 

Ranks  
Ransom  
cf     Mediation,     Me 
at  or  
OT  usage  
cf  Redeemer,  Redei 
tion  
To  whom  paid  ?  .  .  . 
Rape 
cf  Crimes 

.  .  2530- 
.  .2.130-  (M'Caig) 
di- 
.  .2018-  (Edwards; 
.  .  2530'' 
ip- 
2,1  II'1  (McConnell; 
.2532- 

.  .  7451'  Jlirseh) 
.  ,250ib  (Ilirsehi 
,2.132'>  (Wolf) 
.  .  2,159b 
.    2.1.191'  (Porter' 
.  .2532''  (J.  E    II    Thomson) 

cf  Atonement,  Day  of 
Biblical  teaching  .... 
cf     Mediation,     Medi 
ator  
cf  Propitiation  

.321'-  (Moller) 
.  253(ib 

.2018-  (Edwards  i 
2467-  (Carver) 
2655-  (Williams) 
.2536- 
3113-  (W.  Evans 
253S- 
2538- 
.2538-  (W.  L.  Walker' 

.  258-  i  Allen 

cf  Sacrifice 

cf  Punishments.  .  . 
Raplia,  Raphah  
cf  Rephaiah  

Terms 

cf  Wrath  
Record 

cf  Rephaim  
Raphael  (Apoc)  

Recorder  

Recover  
Recruiting    System,     Ro 
man  .  . 

cf  Rages.  . 
Raphaim  (Apoc)  .  . 

.  .2.1211'  (Tisdalli 
.  .  2;132b 

3350 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Red 

cf  Colors 674h  (Patch) 

Red  Dragon 

cf  Revelation  of  John .  25S2b  (Orr) 

Red  Heifer 13(57b  (Easton) 

Red  Horse 

cf  Revelation  of  John.25821'  (Orr) 
Red  Sea 2538b  (Wright) 

cf  Egypt 91  lb  (Petrie) 

Name 253Sb 

OT  references 2539" 

Passage  of  Israel 2539b 

Peculiarities 253Sb 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 
Redeemer,  Redemption.  .2541"  (AlrConnell) 

cf  Job,  Book  of 10S3b  (Gcmmg) 

Life  in  individual 2541" 

cf   Mediation,    Media- 
tor  20 IS"  (Edwards) 

Moral  implications. .  .  . 2542b 

Moralizing  of  the  idea  2541" 

cf  Paul,  Theology  of.  .2291b  (Easton 

cf  Ransom 2530"  (M'Caig 

cf  Sacrifice,  XT  .         .  .  2(553"  (Williams; 

cf  Sin 2801"  (McConnellj 

Social  process 2542" 

Son  of  God,  the 2543" 

Redness  of  Eyes 

cf  Drunkenness 8SOb  (Edwards.) 

Redound 2544" 

Reed 2544"  (Mastermanj 

cf  Elag 11 171' 

cf  Meadow 2013"  (Day) 

cf  Papyrus 223Sh  (Goodspeedj 

cf  Pool 241 9b  (Day) 

cf  Rush 2G27b  (Masterman 

cf  Tools 2999"  (Easton) 

Reed-grass 

cf  Flag 1117b 

cf  Reed 2544"  (Masterman  ) 

Reed,  Measuring 2545"  (Orr) 

cf  Cubit 765"  (Porter) 

cf  Weights  and   Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Reelaiah  (Raamiah) 2545";  2520" 

Reelias,  Reelius  (Apoc) .  .2515" 
Reesaias 

cf  Resaias 2561" 

Refiner,  Refining 2545"  (Pat dp 

cf  Founder 1141b 

cf  Lead 1861"  (Patch) 

cf  Metallurgy 2044"  (Patch) 

Reform 2545b 

Reformation 2545b;  1019"  (Alexander) 

Reformation  Creeds 743b  (Alexander) 

Reformation,     Principles 

of 338"  (Rees) 

Refresh,  Refreshing 25451'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Refuge 2545b 

Refuge,  Cities  of 2545b  (Ewing) 

cf  Bezer 459b 

cfGoel.  .  .  .  1272b  (Brcslich) 


Refuge,  Cities  of — continued 

cf  Golan 1273b  (Ewing) 

cf  Hebron 1365a  (Masterman) 

cf  Homicide 1418"  (Levcrtoff) 

cf  Kedesh 1 790b  (Ewing) 

cf  Ramoth-gilead 2529"  (Ewing) 

cf  Shechem 2755"  (Ewing) 

lief  use 254(5" 

Refute 254(5"  (Edwards) 

Rcgcm 2546b 

Regem-melech 2546b 

cf  Share/er 2750"  (Eiselen) 

Regeneration 2546b  (Nuclsen) 

Apostolic  teaching.  .  .  . 254S" 

cf  Conversion 70(ih  (Xuelsen.) 

cf  Eschatology   of   the 

NT ' 979b  (Vos ) 

cf  Johannine Theology  1703b  (Lawj 

Later  development. .  .  . 2549b 

cf  Man,  New 1975"  (Webb) 

OT  doctrine 2547" 

Present  significance.  .  .2549'' 

cf  Seed 27121'  (Easton) 

Teaching  of  Jesus 2547b 

Term  explained 25461' 

Regeneration,  Baptismal 397a  (Orr;    Bishop;    Dan) 
Region 25501' 

cf  Galatia 1154"  (Ramsay j 

Register 

cf  Genealogy 11831'  (Crannelli 

cf  Quirinius 645"  (Armstrong) 

Rehabiah 2550b 

Rehearse 2550'1 

Rehob 2550h  (Christie) 

Rehoboam 2551"  (Mosiman) 

Division  of  kingdom.  .2551" 

cf  Israel,  History  of  the 

People 1521"  (Orelli) 

cf  Jeroboam  1 15931'  (Mosiman) 

cf  Roboam 2596" 

cfSliishak 2778"  (Nicol) 

Shishak's  invasion  .  .  .  .2552" 
Rehobofh 2552"  (Masterman) 

cf  Xcgeb 2130"  (Masterman) 

cf  Sit  nah 2813" 

Rehoboth-ir 2552b  (Pinches) 

cf  Nineveh 2147'-  (Pinches) 

Rehoboth  by  the  River.  .2552''  (Ewing) 
Rehum 2552b  (Stearns) 

cf  Harim 1339"  (Stearns) 

cf  Nehum 2132" 

cf  Roimus  (Apoc) 2597" 

cf  Shimshai 2771"  (Wolf) 

Rei 2553"  (Wolf) 

Reign 2553"  (Baur) 

cf  King 1799"  (Press) 

Reins 2553b  (Luering) 

cf  Kidneys 1797b  (Easton) 

Rekem.: 2553b  (\Volf) 

cf  Rakem 2527b 

Relationships,  Family.  .  .2554"     (N.     and     E.     D. 
Isaacs) 


GENERAL  JNDKX 


Relat  ionships,  Family — continued 
Brothers  and  sisters. .  .  2555" 

Father-in-law,  etc 2550" 

cf  Hospitality 1432"  (Easton) 

Husband  and  wife.  .  .  .2555" 
Other  domestic  tics.  .  .2550" 
Parents  and  children.  .255-1" 

cf  Queen  Mother 2513'1  (Baur) 

cf  Raguel 2525"  (N.  Isaacs) 

cf  Sister 2S13"  (Pollard) 

cf  Slavery 2815"  (Raffety) 

cf  Son,  Sons 2S20"  (Bettcridge) 

cf  Spouse 2S4Gb 

Uncles,  etc 2555" 

Release 25.lt>1' 

cf  Jubilee  Year 1750"  (Baur) 

Religion 255Gb  (Easton) 

cf   Babylonia   and   As- 
syria, Religion  of.  .  .308b  (Rogers) 

cf  Superstition 2S71!l  (Doolan) 

Theories  of  origin  and 

growth 092"  (Tisdall) 

Universality  of 092-  (Tisdall) 

Religion,  Comparative  .  .G91b  (Tisdall) 

Religion  of  Israel 15131'  (Orclli) 

Religion,  Science  of 091b  (Tisdall) 

Remainder 2557" 

Remaliah 2557" 

Remember,           Remem- 
brance  2557"  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Remeth 2557" 

cf  Jarmnth 1570"  (Masterman) 

cf  Ramoth  (place).  .  .  .2529" 

Remission  of  Sins 2557b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Absolution 24"  (Jacobs) 

cf  Forgiveness 1132h  (Morro) 

cf  Sacrifice,  XT 2G53h  (Williams) 

Remmon 2557b 

cf  Rimmon  (place;..  .  .2593h  (Masterman) 

Remmon-methoar 2557b 

cf  Rimmon  (place)..  .  .2593b  (Masterman) 

Remnant 2557b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Rest 2501b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Removing  Landmarks 

cf  Landmark 182Gb 

Remphan 

ct'Rephan 2500" 

Rend  Asunder 310b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Rending  of  Garments 

cf  Burial 529"  (Eager) 

cf  Dress S75h  (Eager) 

Renew 2557b  (Gerberding) 

Repair 2558" 

Repentance 255S"  (DeMent) 

NT  terms 255Sb 

OT  terms 255S" 

Psychological  elements  25.19" 

cf  Sin 280 lb  (McConncll) 

Repetitions 2559h  (Easton) 

cf  Magic,  Magician.  .  .  19G4b  (T.  W.  Davies) 

^f  Prayer.  .  .  .  .2430a  (Lambert) 


Rephael  (Raphael).. 

Rephah 

Rephaiah 

cf  Rapha,  Raphah . 
Rephaim 

cfOg.  . 


cf  Rapha,  Raphah.  . 

cf  Sons  of  God  (OT) .  .2S35"  (Crichtonj 

cf  Titans 29S7" 

cf  Zamzurnmim 3132" 

Rephaim,  Vale  of 2.100'  (Ewing) 

Rephan 2500" 

cf  Astrology 2<)5b  (Maunder) 

cf  Chiun (>\'2l  ^Margolis) 

Rephidim 2500"  (Ewingj 

cf  Massah    and     Meri- 

bah 2007"  (Ewing; 

Reprobate 2.100"  (VosJ 

Reproof,  Reprove 2500b  (.East on) 

Reptile 2501" 

cf  Leviathan lSOSh  (Day; 

cf  Lix.ard 1900"  (Day) 

cf  Serpent 2730"  (Day) 

cf  Tortoise 2999b  (Day) 

Reputation 2561" 

cf  Kenosis 1792"  (East on) 

Require 2501" 

Rereward 

cf  Rearward 25341' 

Resaias  (Reelaiah) 2501";  2515" 

Resen 2561"  (Pinches) 

cfCalah 539b  (Pinches) 

cf  Nineveh 2149"  (Pinches; 

Reservoir 2501" 

cf  Cistern G57b  (A.  C.  Dickie; 

cf  Ditch S59b  (Clippinger) 

cf  Pool 2419''  (.Day) 

Resh 2501" 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

Resheph 2561b 

Residue 

cf  Remnant 25571'  (W.  L.  Walker; 

Respect  of  Persons 256 11'  (Easton) 

cf  Accept 27b  (Pratt) 

H,,S( 2561b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Remnant 2557b  (W.  L.  Walker; 

cf  Sabbath 2629b  (Sampey) 

Restitution,  Restorat  ion 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

Restoration 25611'  (Miller) 

cf    Punishment,    Ever- 

lasting 2501b  (Orr) 

Resurrection 2502"       (Easton);        014b 

(Bevan) 
Apostolic  teaching ....  2504" 

cf  Body 491b      (Hirsch;        Marais; 

Pratt) 

cf  Eschatology,  NT.  .  .979b  (Vos 
cf  Eschatology,  OT  .  .  .972"  (Orr) 

cf  Flesh 1118b  (Luering) 

cf  Heart 1350b  (Marais) 

cf  Immortality  . .         .  .  1401"  (Orr) 


GENERAL  IN DUX 


Resurrection — continual 

Israel  and  immortality  2.1G21' 

of  Jesus  Christ lGG4b  (Orr) 

of  Job,  Book  of 1079b  (Genung) 

cf  Johannine  Theology  17f).lb  (Law) 

cf  Last  Judgment 1777b  (Easton) 

cf  Lazarus 1S(')0:1  (Treverj 

cf     Maccabees,     Books 

<>f.  .  .  .1949''  (T.  W.  Davies) 

< )T  ideas 2.1G3a 

<•!'  Pamusia 22  |>»a  i  Eastern; 

cf  Psychology 21',)lb  (Alarais) 

cf  Salvation 2i>70"  (Easton) 

cf  Sheol 27(1 1"  (Orr) 

«'f  Soul 2S:57"  (Alarais) 

ef  Spirit 2Sllb  (Alarais) 

Teaching  of  Christ.  .  .  .  2.1G31' 

cf  Witchcraft 3097"  (T.  \Y.  Davies) 

cf  Zoroastrianism 3157"  (Easton) 

Resurrection,    Gospel    of 
the 

cf  Apocryphal  ( lospels.  195"  (\  lutchison  ;• 
Resurrection      of     Jesus 

Christ,  The 2.1G51'  (Thomas) 

Kl'fect  on  disciples .  .  .  .  25(>7" 

Empty  grave,  the 25(U>" 

Gospel  record 2.1GS- 

Paul's  witness 25l>7b 

Primif  ive  church 2.")(')7b 

Proofs 2.1G.1'' 

Theology  of 2.1G91' 

Retain 25G91' 

Retaliation 

cf  Law  in  the  XT is  14"  (M'Caig) 

cf  I'unishments 2.")!)  }'•  (Jlirsch) 

cf  Retribution 2.170'  ;M'Caig) 

Retention  of  Sins 2.1G91'  (Jacobs) 

Retribution 2570"  (M'Caig  •• 

Bil)lical  terms 2571" 

cf  Immortality 1  101"  (Orr) 

cf  Judgment 1777a  (Jacobs) 

Moral  sense 2571b 

Xature  of 2.~>70b 

cf    Punishment,    Ever- 

lasting 2.302a  (Orr) 

cf  Sacrifice,  XT 20.1.?'  (Williams; 

cf  Sheol 2701*  (Orr 

Wrath  and  grace 2.~>7011 

cf  Wrath 3113a  (W.  l^vans) 

lieu 2,172' 

Reuben 2.172a  (Ewing) 

Jacob's  eldest  son 2.172:1 

cf  Xames,  Proper 211Gb  (Davis) 

cf  Xumbers,  Book  of.  .21G3:1  (Whitelaw) 

Tribal  history 2.1721' 

Reubenites 2.173b 

Kvucl 2.17:!b  (Wolf) 

<'f  Hobab M!)2b  (Cotton) 

cf  Jethro 1G74:1  (Crichton) 

cf  Ragucl 2,12,1"  iX.  Isaacs) 

Reuinah 2.1731' 


Revelation. .  2573b  (Warfield) 

cf  Accommodation. .  .  .32b  (Sweet) 

Biblical  terms 2580b 

Christ  as 25SOb 

General  and  special .  .  .  2574b 

Inspiration 2580" 

cf  Inspiration 1473"  (Warfield) 

cf  John,  the  Apostle. .  .  170Gb  (Ivcrach) 

Modes  of 2.17711 

Process  of 2.17G-C 

Prophecy 2.17S'1 

cf  Prophecy 2  t,19b  (Oivlli 

Scriptures 2.1S2a 

cf  See 2712b  (AI.  ().  Evans; 

Supernal  ural  cliaract  er  2.1731' 
Revelation  (Doctrine  of) 

Through  spirit 1GG7U  ((  hrj 

Revelation  of  John 2.1S21'  (Orr) 

Analysis  of 2.1S.1" 

Antichrist l.l,la  (J.  ]•:.  H.  Thomson) 

cf      Apocalyptic      Lit- 
erature  1G11'  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Canonicity  and  author- 
ity  2.1N3--' 

Date  and  unity 2.1M'1 

cf  Horse,  Black 1423b 

cf  Horse,  Red 1423b 

cf  Horse,  White 1  121;l 

Interpretation 2,1SG:L 

cf  Jerusalem,  Xew .  .  .  .  1G211'  (Yos) 
cf  John,  Gospel  of.  ...  1720"  (Iverachj 

cf  Alan  of  Sin 197Gb  (Orr) 

cf  Patmos 22G3b  (Harry) 

Theology  of 2,187a 

Title  and  character.  .  .  2.1S2'1 

Revellings 2oS7"  (Gerberding) 

R(>venge,  Revenger 2.1S7"  (Breslich.) 

cf  Avenge,  Avenger.  .  .340"  (Breslich) 

cf  Blood 48S1'  (Clippingerj 

«'f  Coel 12721'  (Breslich) 

Revenue 2587" 

Reverence 2.187b  (Forrester j 

Revile 

cf  Crimes  74.11'  (Hirsch) 

cf  Punishments 2,104''  (Hirsch) 

Revised  Yersion 4G9b  (Orr) 

Revive,  Reviving 2.1S71'  (W.  L.  A\'alker) 

Reward 2587'' 

Rc/cph 2.188"  (Pinches) 

Re/ia 

cf  Ri/ia 259,?' 

Rezin 2,188"  (Xicol) 

Rczin,  Sons  of 2,188b  (Xicol) 

Rezon 25SSb  (Xicol) 

Rhcgium 258Sb  (Allen) 

Rlicsa 2,18Sb 

Rliinoceros 2,189" 

cf  Unicorn 3037'' 

Rhoda 2589"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Rhodes 2589a  (Harry) 

History.  .  .  .259Sb 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Rhodes — continued 

Locution 

cf  Rodanim 

Rhodocus  (Apoc) .  . 

Rib 

Ribai 

Ribband 

cf  Color.  . 


.  .25S9- 

.  .2597- 

.  .2590-  (Luering) 

.  .2590-  (Luering) 

.  .2590- 

.  .2590- 

.  .(ill1'  (Patch) 


cf  Cord 70!)''  (Eager; 

Riblah.  .  2590-  (Christie) 

Riches 2r>'.)()l>  (Forrester* 

cf  Mammon.  .  .  .  19721'  (.Miller) 

(•('Treasure 30071'  (RalTetyi 

cf  Wealth 3070-  (W.  Evans) 

Rid,  Riddance    2590b 

Riddle 

cf  Games 117()b  (Smith) 

Rie 259V 

cf  Spelt 28-10" 

Right 2591-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Truth 3025-  (Carver) 

Righteousness 2591-  (McConnell);  1027 

(Stalker) 

Character  of  Cod 2592- 

Double  aspect 259 1 :i 

cf    Faithful,    Faithful- 
ness  10SS1'  (Hodge) 

cf  Justice 17S1>>  (Rail) 

cf  Philosophy 23S4b  (Reesj 

cf    Sermon    on'  tho 

Mount 273  V'  (.Miller) 

Social  custom 2591b 

Rig-veda 

cf      Persian      Religion 

(Ancient) 233 11'  (Tisdall) 

Rim 

cfRing 2594-  (Crannell) 

Ilimmon  (god) 2591-  (X.  Isaacs) 

cf  Gods 1271'-  (Reeve) 

cf  Hadadrimmon 1314-  (E\ving.) 

cf  Tabrimmon 2902- 

Rimmon  (person) 2591-  (X    Isaacs; 

Ilimmon  (place) 2593h  (Mastcrman) 

cf  Dimnah S 19- 

cf  En-rimmon 9531'  (Masterman) 

cf  Remmon-methoar ,  .2557'' 
Rimmon-nirari 

Western  campaigns  of  570b  (Xicol) 
Riramon-perez 2594- 

cf    Wanderings    of    I.— 

rael 30(H;i  (Conder) 

Rimmon.  Rock  of 

cf  Ilimmon  (place)..  .  . 2593b  (Masterman) 
Rimmonah,  Rimmono 

cf  Rimmon  (place)..  .  .2593''  (Masterman) 
Ring 2591-  (Crannell) 

cf  Earring SS7-  (Eager) 

cf  Seal 270Sb  (Edwards) 

Ringleader 2594b 

Ringstreaked 25941' 

Rinnah  .  .  . . 2594b 


Riot 2594b  (East on) 

Riphath 259  !'• 

cf  Diphath 851" 

Rising 25941' 

cf  Leprosy !  SG7-  (Macalister) 

Rissah.  .  .  .  .259  I1' 

cf    Wanderings    of    Is- 
rael   30lil-  iConderj 

Rites C>93>'  (Tisdallj 

Rithmah.  .  .  .  2595 

cf    Wanderings   of    Is- 
rael   30(14-  (Conderj 

River 2595-  (Day) 

cf  Brook.  523b  (Day) 

cf  Stream 2SOG1'  (Day) 

cf  Valley 3015-  (Day) 

cf  Watercourse 3074b  (Day) 

River  of  Egypt 

cf  Brook  of  Egypt  .  .  .  .523b  (Kyle) 

cf  Xile 2115-  (Kyle) 

River,  the  (Great ) 

cf  Euphrates 103Sb  (Wright 

Rivers  of  Eden 

cf  Eden S97b  (Wright 

Rizia 2595- 

Ri/pah 2595-  (Wallace J 

cf  MephiboshiM'.i .  .     .  .  2033b  (\\"allacei 

cf  M(>rab 2034a  (Wallace] 

Road  (Inroad) 2595b 

cf  War,  Warfare 30(>9b  (Xicol) 

Road  (Way) 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity 259S-  (Angus) 

cf  Way 3075'"  (Morro) 

Roast 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager) 

Robber,  Robbery 25951'      (Easton  <• ;         7-17'" 

(Hirsch) 

of  Grasp 1293-  (Miller) 

cf  Thief 2972-  (Easton) 

Robbers  of  Temples 2595b 

cf  Lysimachus  (Apoc) .  1944-  (Hutchison) 
Robe 

cf  Dress S75b  (Eager) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2152-  (Wiener; 
Robinson's  Arch 

cf  Jerusalem 1013-  (Masterman) 

lloboam  (Rehoboam)  .  .    2596a 
Rock 259(1-  (Day) 

cf  Crag 737-  (Day) 

cf  Flint 1119b  (Day) 

Jesus'       reference       to 


Peter  and  the 

cf  Keys,  Power  of. 

cf  Lime 

cf  Sand 

cf  Spiritual  Drink 

cf  Stone,  Stones  . 
Rock  of  Ages 

cf  Isaiah 

Rock-badger 

cf  Conev  .  . 


.  Hi  IS'  (prr) 
.  1791-  (Carver) 
.  lS93b  (Day) 
.  2(lSSb  (Day) 
.2S13- 

.  2S5G-  (Day) 
.7lb 

.  1497b  (Robinson) 
259Gb 
.MS1'  (Day) 


3354 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Rod  ..................  259Gb  (On-) 

Of  Aaron  ............  2a  (Alack) 

Of  almond  ...........  100b  (Musterman) 

cf  Armor,  Anns  ......  2ola  (Nicol) 

cf  Staves  ...........  28f>0"  (Caldecott) 

Rodanim  ..............  2597" 

cf  Dodanim  ..........  (SOT1' 

cf  Rhodes  ...........  2589"  (Harry) 

Roe,  Roebuck  ..........  2597"  (Day  > 

cf  Deer  .............  S17"  (Day) 

cf  Gazelle  ...........  1179-  (Day) 

Rogelim  ...............  2597  ' 

Rohgah  ...............  2597" 

Roinms  (Apoc)  ........  2597" 

cf  Nehuin  ...........  2132" 

cf  Rchuni  ...........  2o.")2h  (Stearns) 

Roll  (Scroll)  ...........  2597"  (Richardson) 

cf  Tablet  ............  2900"  (Richardson) 

cf  Volume  ...........  305x> 

Roller  ................  2  on?' 

Rolling  Thing  ..........  2r)97'' 

cf  Chaff  .............  5SS1'  (Patch) 

cf  Dust  .............  883"  (Edwards) 

cf  Stubble  ...........  2S07b 

Romamti-ezcr  ..........  2597b 

cf  Joshbekashah  ......  1743" 

Roman,  Romans 

cf  Citizenship  ........  661"  (Trevcr1 

cf  Rome  ............  2(1  IS"  (Allen; 

Roman  Army  ..........  257"  (Allen) 

Roman  Cit  i/enship 


cf  Paul,  the  Apostle. 


(A.  T.  Robertson) 


Roman       Kinj)ire       and 

Christianity.  .  .  .  .2598"  (Angus) 

Attitude1    toward    reli- 

gion ..............  2G02b 

cf  Dispersion  .........  S55"  (Nicol) 

Historical  outline  .....  L'598" 

cf  Language  of  the  NT1-S261'  (A.  T.  Robertson) 
cf  Latin  .............  IS  40b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Nero  .............  2  138"  (Angus) 

Peace  ...............  2600" 

cf  Persecution  ........  23231'  (Rutherfurd) 

Preparation  for  Chris- 

tianity ............  2600!l 

Protection  ...........  2601" 

Relations  between.  .  .  .2605'' 

cf  Roman  Law  .......  261  lb  (AUen) 

cf  Rome  ............  26  IS'1  (Allen) 

cf  Stoics  .............  2S54b  (Rees) 

Victory  of  Christianity  2610b 
Roman  Law...  .  .  .261  lb  (Allen) 

cf  Citizenship  ........  661a  (Trevor) 

Criminal  law  ........  2612b 

Private  law  ..........  2612" 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity  ........  2G02-'1  (Angus) 

cf  Rome  ............  26  IS"  (Allen) 

Roman  Religion 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity  ........  2602h  (Angus) 

cf  Rome.  ...  ........  26  IS"  (Allen) 


Romans  in  Asia  Minor.  .281°  (White);  275"   (Cal- 
der);  483"  ( White)  ;272b 
(Banks) 
Romans,  Epistle  to  the.  .2614a  (Dunelm) 

Characteristics         and 
teachings 2616b 

Date 261")" 

Genuineness  and  integ- 
rity  2614" 

cf  Hospitality 1432a  (Easton) 

cf  Justification 17S2b  (Faulkner) 

Law  in 1S4S"  (M'Caig) 

Place  and  destination.  .2615" 

cf  Propitiation 2467a  (Carver) 

Relation  to  Galatians. .  115Sb  (G.  G.  Findlay) 

cf  Sacrifice,  NT -.2655b  (Williams) 

Rome 2618a  (Allen) 

cf    Apoealypt  ic    Liter- 
ature. . 161b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Devout 840"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Greece,  Religion  in..  1297;i  (Fairbanks) 

Imperial  government. . 2620a 

cf  Italy 1542b  (Allen) 

cf  Libertines 1881"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Macedonia 1957b  (Tod  i 

Persecution 2623" 

cf  Persecution 2325b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Procurator 2457b  (Allen) 

cf  Proselytes 2467b  (Lcvertoff) 

cf    R(>lation    to    lllyri- 

cum .1449b.(Tod) 

Republican      constitu- 
tion  261 S'1 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity 2598"  (Angus) 

cf  Roman  Law 2(51 1b  (Allen) 

Roman  religion 2620b 

Rome   and   the  Chris- 
tians  2622" 

Rome  and  the  Jews.  .  .2621b 

cf  Tax 2920"  (Sweet) 

cf  Treaty 3008b  (Nicol) 

Roof 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Roof-chamber 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Room 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Root 2623" 

Root  of  David 797b 

Root  of  Jesse 2623b 

cf  David,  Root  of 797b 

cf  Jesse 1623a  (Roberts) 

Rope 2623b  (Easton) 

cf  Cord 709b  (Eager) 

cf  Line 1894a  (Orr) 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Nicol) 

Rose 2623b  (Masterman) 

Rosh  (person) 2623b 

Rush  (place) 2G23b  (Pinches) 

cf  Tclassar 2925a  (Pinches) 

Rot,  Rottenness 2624a 

Rote..  ..2624" 


GENERAL  1XDEX 


330.5 


Rower,  Rowing 

cf  Ships  and  Bouts. .  .  .2771"  (\icol) 

Royal 202-1"  (Baur) 

Royal  City 

cf  Royal 2024"  (Baur) 

Royal  Shekel 275Xb 

Ruby 

cf  Stones,  Precious. .  .  .2S5G"  (Fletcher) 
Rudder,  Rudder-bands.  .202  I1' 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Xicolj 

Ruddy 2021'' 

Rude 202  I1' 

Rudiments 2G24b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Elements 927b 

cf  Principles 2455" 

Rue 2G25>> 

Rufus 2(525''  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Rug 2G25b 

Ruhamah 2G25b 

cf  Lo-amnii 1907"  (Lees ) 

Ruin 202.-,''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Ruler 2025b  (Baur) 

Ruler  of  the  Feast 2027"  (T.  Lewis) 

Ruler  of  the  Synagogue 

cf  Ruler 20201'  (Baur) 

Rulers  of  the  City 

cf  Ruler 2020"  (Baur) 

Rumiih 2027"  (Ewing) 

Rump 2027" 

cf  Tail 2903a  (Luering) 

Runagate 2027" 

Runner 

cf  Forerunner 1131"  (W.  Evans) 

cf  Games 110Sb  (Smith) 

Rush 2027"  (Masterman) 

cf  Reed 2544"  (Masterman) 

Rust 2G27b  (Patch) 

cf  Scum 2700" 

Ruth 2G27b       (Geden ) ;        450" 

(Masterman) 

cf  Boaz 491"  (Roberts) 

cf  Ruth,  Book  of 2G2Sb  (Geden) 

Ruth,  Book  of 2G28b  (Gcden) 

Authorship  and  date .  .  2G28b 

cf  Palestine 2214b  (Conder) 

cf  Ruth 2G27b  (Geden) 

Rye 

cf  Spelt 2S40" 

Sabachthani 

cf  Eli,  Eli,   Larna  Sa- 
bachthani   939"  (Clippinger) 

Sabaco  (Sabakon) 

cf  So 2S20"  (Xicol) 

Sabaeans 2629"  (Pinches) 

cf  Seba 2710b  (Pinches) 

cf  Sheba 2752b  (Weir) 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2S9Sb  (Pinches) 

Sabanneus  (Zabad) 2G29b 

Sabannus 2G29b 

Sabaoth 

cf  God,  Names  of 1204b  (Mack) 

cf  Lord  of  Hosts. .       ..1919" 


Sabat 

cf  Saphat 20W- 

Sabateus  (Shabbethaij..  .202'.)'' 

Sabatlms  (Zabad) 202!)1' 

Sabatus 

cf  Sal)athus 202!)'' 

Sabban 

cf  Sabannus 202!)1' 

Sabbateus(Shabbethai)..2G29b 

Sabbath 202!)''  (Sampey) 

cf  Ethics  of  Jesus 1020"  (Stalker) 

History  of 2031  ' 

Jesus  and  the 203 11' 

cf  Lord's  Day 1920"  (Easton) 

cf  Meals 2015"  (Eager) 

cf  Number 2100"  (Smith) 

Origin,      Biblical      ac- 
count  203()< 

Origin,  critical  views.  .2030'' 

In  OT  and  Maccabean 
times 2031" 

Paul's      teaching      re- 
garding the 2031'' 

cf  Rest 2501''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Seventh-day  Advent  ist 

position 2032"  (Prescott) 

cf  Ten  Commandments, 

The 2944b  (Sampey) 

Sabbath-breaking 

cf  Crimes 745b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Punishments 250 4b  (Hirsch) 

Sabbath,  Court  of  the 

cf  Covered  Way 733"  (Hirsch) 

Sabbath,  Day  before  the  70S1'  (Hirsch) 
Sabbath  Day's  Journey.  .2034"  (Porter) 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Sabbath,    Morrow    after 

the 20S3"  (Hirsch) 

Sabbath,  Second  after  the 

First 2034''  (Baur) 

Sabbathcus 

cf  Sabbatcus 202!)'' 

Sabbaths  of  Years 2031'' 

cf  Astronomy 3()0b  (Maunder) 

cf  Jubilee  Year 1756"  (Baur) 

Sabbatical  Year 2G34b  (Baur) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Central  idea 2035'- 

cf  Jubilee  Year 1750"  (Baur) 

Mosaic  legislation 2035" 

Observance 2035" 

Primary  intention ....  2035" 

cf  Sabbath 2Q29b  (Sampey) 

Sabbeus  (Shemaiah) .  .  .  .2036" 

Sabi  (Shobai) 2030" 

•    cf  Sabie 2030- 

Sabians 

In  Arabia 2191'  (Weir) 

Sabias  (Ilashabiah) 2030" 

Sabie 2030" 

Sabta,  Sabtah 2030"  (Fulton) 


GEXEHAL   IX  HEX 


Sabteca,  Sabfochah 

Sacar 

Sackbut 

cf  Music 

Sackcloth 

cf  Burial 

Sacraments 

cf  Baptism 


.2030"  (Ewiiig'- 
.2036' 

.2091''  (Millar' 


529''  (Eager) 

2G3G;l  (Lambert) 

38ob  (A.     T.     Robertson; 

T.  M.  Lindsay;  Daul 

Efficacy 2G371' 

Instituted  by  Christ.  .2037" 
cf  Jesus  Christ  (Lord's 

Supper) 10r>Sb  (Orr) 

cf  Johannine  Theology  170  lb  (Law) 

cf  Lord's  Supper 1<)21'>  (Doskcr) 

Nature;  and  number. .  . 2G3Gb 

Term,  the 2G3G1' 

Sacrifice,  Human 20.">S-1  (McGlothlin) 

Biblical  instances 2G.1S'1 

Ileathen  usage 20,">S" 

cf  Jephthah 15S71  (Sclienk 

cf  Sacrifice  (OT) 2G3S"  (Pa-eve) 

Use  by  Hebrews 2G.")X" 

Sacrifice  (XT.) 20,11-  (Williams) 

Appeal       of       Christ's 

death 2G.~>7" 

Attitude  of  Jesus  a::d 

XT 2G.r>2« 

Blood      offerings       vs. 

ethical  views 20") I1' 

Cancellation     of     guilt 

by  sacrifice  of  Clirist  20.")  I" 
Christ's  sacrifice  needs 

completion 2G.">7'' 

Christian  life  as  sacri- 
fice  2G.">01) 

How  Christ's  sacrifice 

procures  salvation.  .20.">4" 
Human    conditions    of 

application 2G.")0:l 

Idea  in  XT 2052b 

Jesus'     acceptance     of 

the  doctrine 2G">2b 

Jesus'  teaching 20.">2i' 

Jesus'  teaching  re- 
garding method  of 

salvation 20")  i:' 

Justification    by    sacri- 
fice of  Christ.  .  .         .20.")  I'1 
Lord's     Supper     as     a 

sacrifice 2G.")7'' 

cf  Mediation,  Mediator201S"  (Edwards^ 
Xature     of     Christian 

sacrifices 2G.">7'1 

Paul  and  the  Epistle  to 

the  Hebrews 2G.")2a 

Paul's  teaching  regard- 
ing method  of  sal- 
vation   20.")  tb 

Paul's  use  of  terms. .  .  . 2G54b 
Rationale    of    Christ's 
sacrifice .  .  .  .  2050"- 


Sacrifice  (NT}— continued 
Reconciliation    by    the 
sacrifice  of  Christ  .  .    20">3lj 
cf  Reconciliation..  .  .2530*  (M'Caig) 

1  Redemption  by  tin- 
sacrifice  of  Christ .  .  .  2G")3" 

Relation  of  Christ's 
sacrifice  to  salvation  2G~)3" 

Remission  by  sacrifice 

of  Christ 2or»:;b 

Requirements  for  ap- 
propriation   20.")0I> 

cf  Retribution 2")70:i  (M'Caig) 

cf  Romans,  Epistle  to 

the 201  1"  (Dunclm) 

cf  Salvation 2000-1  (Easton) 

Sanctification  by  sacri- 
fice of  Christ 20.")  \' 

Summaries  of  the  doc- 
trine   2G")7b 

Terms  employed 20.")lb 

Sacrifice  COT) 2G3S:i  (Reeve) 

cf  Abel .rl  (M.  0.  Evans) 

cf  Altar 1001'  (Wiener;  Caldecott 

cf  In  ancient  Greece.  .1302''  (Fairbanks) 

Classification  of 20-11" 

'•f    Hands,    Imposition 

of 133")"  (Orr) 

cf  Heifer,  Red 13G71'  (Easton) 

cf  Hospitality 1  !32"  (Easton) 

Idea  and  efficacy  of.  .  .201'.)" 

Food,  adoration,  de- 
votion   20  I!)1 

Purification  and  con- 
secration   2GT,)b 

Sacramental  view.  .  . 20i'.)b 

Symbol  of  ])rayer.  .  .  20")0:i 

Typology     of     s;icri- 
fice 2Go()b 

Vicarious  expiation.  .2050" 

cf  Kidneys 1797b  (Eastonj 

<-f  Law  in  OT lS50b  (Rul<\) 

.Mosaic  sacrifices 2G42b 

Aaron  and  his  sons.  .2(il3:i 

Burnt  offering 2013' 

Common  altars..     .  . 2G121' 

Covenant  sacrifice.  . 2G-121' 

Drink  offering 2G-t")b 

Guilt  offering 2G1.">" 

Heave      and      wav<> 
offerings 2045b 

Meal  offering.          .  .  20  I3b 

Peace  offering 20  14a 

Sin  offering 2G44b 

Origin  and  nature  of.  .  2t')o()ri 

Theories   of    natural 
origin 2G.'!9h 

Theory     of     Divine 
revelation 2G39b 

Theory  of  homage .  .  2640a 

Theory    of    piacular 
offerings. .  .  .  2G40a 


CENERAL  INDEX 


Sacrifice  (OT) — coii.tin.uai 

Origin  and  nature  of — continued 
Theory    of    religious 
instincts.  .  .  .  .2040'' 

Theory  of  sacrificial 
meal.  .  ...  .2(539'- 

Pro-Mosaic  Age.       .  .  .2041" 

Egypt      and      Baby- 
lonia  2(541" 

Pat  riarchal  examples  26  12' 

Primitive  instances.  .2041 b 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2  1/V2"  (Wiener) 

Prophets  and  sacrifice. 2(1 17'' 

Amos  and  Ilose;i .  .  .2(5 17'' 

E/ektel.  .  .  .  .2(5  IS- 

Jeremiah 2(54S:i 

Micali  and  Jsaiali. .  .  2(548" 
Sacrifice     in     the    his- 
tory   2(5  1(5" 

David  and  Solomon  2(540'' 

Early  days 2(54(5" 

Exilic       and       post- 
exilic  ages 2(547" 

Human  sacrifices.  .  .2(547'' 
Northern  kingdom  .  .  2(54(5'' 
Samuel  and  Saul. .  .  .  2040:i 
Southern  kingdom.  .2(547" 
cf  Sacrifice,  Human  .  .  .2(558"  (Mc(  Ilothlin) 
Sacrifice  in  the  "Writ- 
ings''  2G48b 

cf  Shoulder 27SOb  (Luering) 

Terms  and  definitions. 203Sb 

cf  Thigh 29721'  (Kuston) 

cf  Totemism 3000"  (M.  ().  Evans 

cf  Trespass 3010'1  (Dungan) 

ef  Wine 3088"  (East  on! 

Sacrilege 20~)Sb 

Sadamias 

cf  Salemas 2(1(5.'!' 

Sadas 

cf  Astad 29.1" 

Saddens 

cf  Loddeus 1909'' 

Saddle  (noun) 2G.181' 

Saddle   (verb) 20.")Sh 

Sadduccrs 2(;.")8h  (J.  E.  11.  Thomson*; 

4  .IS-  (Dnsken 
Acceptance   of    Penta- 
teuch alone 20(50" 

Attitude  toward  apos- 
tles   2000" 

Attitude  toward  Jesus  2G.191' 

Character  of 2()0()b 

Disbelief  in  traditions .  2660" 

Doctrines  of 2000" 

Fall  of  the  party 2000" 

Jesus  and  the 2001" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1G.1G1'  (Orr  j 

cf  Josophus  Flavins.  .  .1742"  (Wenley) 

Literature  of 20001' 

cf    Maccabees,     Books 

of.  .  .1949"  (T.  W.  Daviesj 


Saddueees   co/i// ////«/ 

Meaning  of  name.          .  20">9ri 

cf  Pharisee's.  .  .  2301:i   (.1.   Iv  H.Tliomson 
Relation  to  temple.        2000b 
Relations  with  Hellen- 
ism                      .  20.">9b 

Rise  of  the  party 20.")9'' 

Sources    of    knowledge 

of 20.")9" 

Talmudic  test imon\  i-e- 

garding 2(5(i()b 

Testimony  of  Josephus 

regarding 2(i.j9;i 

Treatment    by    Jewish 

rulers 2(i."59b 

Sadduk 20(51" 

cf  Zadok :{129b  (Whitelawj 

Sadoc 2(i(il'- 

cf  Zadok :}129b  (Whitelaw 

Safed 

cf  Xaphtali 2119b  (Ewingj 

Saffron 2(501"  (Mastermam 

Sail,  Sailor 2(5Gl:l 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  .  .2774"  (Nicnl 

Saints 2001"  (Este> 

cf  Separate 2721'' 

Sala,  Salah 2G02" 

cf  Shclah 27.-)8b 

Salamiel 2(5(52" 

cf  Sholumiel 27.7J"  (\\'olfj 

Salamis 2(502"  (Todj 

Early  history 20(52" 

Later  history 2(5G2b 

Site 20(52" 

Visit  of  Paul  and  Bar- 
nabas   2(5(52' 

Salasadai 2(5(52'' 

Salathiel 2GG21' 

cf  Phaltiel 2308'' 

cf  Shealtiel 27-12" 

Sale 2002b 

Salecah,  Salcah,  Salchah  20(52''  (Ewing) 

Salem  (person ) 2G03a 

cf  Shallum 2747"  (Umbach) 

Salem  (place) 2003"  (Pinches) 

cf  Jerusalem,  History..  l.~>9.")b  (Masterman) 

cf  King's  Vale 1808"  (Masterman  i 

SalcMnas  (Sadamias) 2oG:!:1 

cf  Shallum 2717"  (Umbach) 

Salirn 20(53"  (Ewing) 

cf  Aenon (i.lb  (Ewing) 

Salimoth 2(5(53'' 

cf  Shelomitli 2759"  (Wolf) 

Sallai 2G(i:;b 

Sallu 

cf  Sallai 2(503b 

S.-dlumus 2GG3b 

cf  Salum 2(50") " 

cf  Shallum 2747"  (Umbach) 

Salma 

cf  Salmon.  .  .  .2(503''  (S.  F.  Hunter' 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Salmai 2GG31' 

cf  Shalmai 2747'' 

ef  Subai 2SGS- 

Salmanasar 2GG31' 

cf  Shalmaneser 2717h  (Nicol) 

Salmon,  Salma 2(5(5:!''  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Zalmon 3131'1  (E\ving) 

Salmone 20(53'' 

cf  Phoenix 2:591-  (Calder) 

Saloas 2(501- 

cf  Elasah H2#' 

cfTulsas 29071' 

Salom 200  t" 

cfSalu 2(501'' 

cf  Shalhun 2747-  (I'mbac'li) 

Salome 2GG4"  (Orr) 

cf  Zcbedee 3131" 

Salt 2(501-  (Patch) 

cf  Covenantor  Salt.  .  .729b  (Pollard) 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

cf  Food 1121'1  (Eager) 

Salt,  City  of 2(504'' 

cf  Moladah 2073''  (Masterman.) 

Sail,  CovenaTit  of 729''  (Pollard' 

Salt,  Pillar  of 

cf  Lot 1929'1  (Boyd) 

cf  Salt 2(5(51-  (Patch 

cf  Siddim,  Vale  of.  .     .2781-  (Wright) 

cf  Slime 2S171'  (Day) 

Salt,  Sea 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI-  (Wright) 

Salt,  Valley  of 2GG4>>  (Mastennan) 

cf  Sela. 27 Hi1'  (Ewing) 

Salt -wort 2(501''  (Mastennan) 

cf  Juniper 17X1-  (Mastennan) 

Salu 20(51'' 

cf  Salom 20(51" 

Salum 20(5.-,' 

cf  Sallumus 20G:ib 

cf  Shalhun 2747-  (UmbaclO 

Salutation 2(5(5.",-  (Pollard) 

cf  Knee 1X1.")-  (East on) 

Salvation 2(5(5.",-  (Easton) 

cf  Atonement 321"  (Carver) 

cf  Heredity 1370-  (Easton) 

cf  Hope 1419''  (Easton) 

Intermediate  literature2G6Gb 
General  references.  .20(5(5'' 
Law,  views  of  the..  .2007" 
cf  Johannine Theology  1095''  (Law) 

cf  Justification 17S2b  (Faulkner) 

cf  Mark,  Gospel  of. .  .  .1994''  (Farmer) 
cf     Mediation,     Medi- 
ator  20  IS'1  (Edwards) 

In  OT 20(55" 

General  teaching.  .  .2005- 

Moral  law 2000" 

Nation      and      indi- 
vidual  2665b 

Ritual  law 20(5(5'' 

Sacrifices 2000- 

cf  Paul,  Theology  of.  .229()b  (Easton) 


Salvation  —conlinm'd 
cf  Person  of  Christ. 

Rest  of  NT 

Hebrews,  Ep.  to. 
St.  John. .  . 


.2;3:i8-  (Warfield) 

.2070" 

.  2070'' 

.2700- 


Summaries 2(570'' 

cf  Resurrection 2502-  (Easton) 

cf  Sanctification 2081b  (Rail) 

cf  Saviour 2700-  (Easton) 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts 2843-  (Lambert) 

Teaching  of  Jesus 2007" 

Individualism 2(507'' 

John  the  Baptist 2007" 

Kingdom  of  God..  .  .2(507'' 

Moral  progress 20G71' 

Person  of  Christ..  .  .  20GS- 
Present  and  future.  .2007'' 

Teaching  of  Paul 200S'- 

Atonement 2009'' 

Forgiveness 2009" 

General  views 2GGS1' 

Holy  Spirit 2009" 

Moral  progress 20681' 

Mystical  union 2009" 

Terms  used 2005" 

cf  Zoroastrianism IU57-  (1  vision) 

Samael 

cf  Salamiel 2002- 

Samaias 2071"  (Angus) 

cf  Shemaiah 2759''  (Wolf) 

Samaria,  City  of 2071-  (Ewing) 

Captured  by  Sargon. .  .571-  (Nicol) 

Christian  events 20721' 

Depopulation   and    re- 
population  of 571''  (Nicol) 

Excavations 207  lh 

Herod's  buildings 2672- 

Ilistory 2071'' 

Location 2(571'' 

cf  Mingled  People    .  .  .  2()5<ib  (Easton) 

cf  Omri 21921'  (Mosiman) 

Origin  and  name 2071" 

cf  Palestine,  Recent  Ex- 
ploration  2230''  (Cobern) 

Sieges 2071b 

Samaria,  Country  of .  .  .  .2(572''  (Ewing) 

Boundaries 2072b 

Invasion  and  fall 2G731' 

Later  history 2(573- 

cf  Samaritans 20731'  (Ewing) 

Scenery 2073b 

Samaria,  Woman  of 

cf  Jesus  Christ, 1038-  (Orr) 

Samaritan      Pentateuch, 

The 23121'  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

Samaritans 2673b  (Ewing) 

cf  Gerizim,  Mount 1218"  (Ewing) 

Later       history       and 

present  status 2G74a 

Origin  of  the  race 2073b 

cf  Pentateuch,  The  Sa- 
maritan. .  .  .  .2312b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Samarit  ;ins — con  tin  iicd 

Relations  with  Jews. .  .207  I11 

cf  Samaria,  Country  of  2072b  (Ewing) 

Samatus 207  1" 

Sameeh 2074" 

cf  Alphabet L03b  (Richardson) 

Sameius 

cf  Sainou.s 21 57  1 " 

Samellius 207  I ' 

cf  Shiinshai 2771"  (Wolf) 

Sameus 207  1 ' 

cf  Shemaiah 27.V.)1'  (Wolf) 

Samgar-nebo 207  I'1  (Wolf; 

cf  Rab-mag 2.">22"  (Clippinger) 

cf  Rab-saris 2~>22''  (Clippingor) 

Sanii 

cf  Sabi 2030' 

Samis 

cf  Somois 2820" 

Sainlah 207  I1' 

Sanimus 207  I'1 

cf  Shcina 27f>9b  (Wolf) 

Samos 207  I1'  (Kinsella) 

cf  Chios Gil1'  (Harry) 

cf  Cos 723"  (Harryj 

cf  Ephcsus 901"  (Banks) 

cf  Miletus 203 lb  (Hanks) 

cf  Sainolhracc 2G7o"  (Kinsella) 

Samothraco 207.5"  (Kinsella) 

cf  Xeapolis 212o"  (Tod) 

cf  Philippi 2300"  (Tod) 

cf  Sainos 207  I1'  (Kinsollaj 

Sampsames 207")" 

Samson 207.")"     (Robinson);      781b 

(E wing );820b  (Beechor) 

cf  Abdon 4a  (Becoher) 

Adventures  in  Philistia  2070" 
Historicity       of       the 

stories 2G7Gb 

cf  Manoah 19S3b  (Schenk) 

Marriage 26731' 

Name,  and  character.  .  207o" 

cf  Palestine 2214"  (Condor) 

Religious  value  of  the 

stories 2G7G1' 

Story  of  his  life 2G7.")1' 

Samson,  History  of 

cf  Judges,  Book  of.  ...  1772"  (Geden) 

Samuel 2077"  (Geden) 

Anointing  of  David.  .  .792"  (Weir; 
Character       and       in- 
fluence   2G7S" 

cf  King 1S001'  (Press) 

cf  Libraries 1884b  (Richardson) 

Meaning  of  name 2077" 

cf  Xames,  Proper..  .2110"  (Davis) 

Public  service 2G77b 

Rejection  of  Saul 2G7Sa 

Relations  with  David.  .2078" 

cf  Samuel,  Books  of. .  .  2G78b  (Geden) 

«f  Saul 2G98b  (Weir) 

cf  Shemuel.  .  .  .27Gla 


Samuel — continue'/ 

cf  Shiloh.  .  .  .  .2709"  (Ewing; 

Sources 2077a 

Two       narratives       of 
Saul's  elevation 2077b 

Youth  at  Shiloh 2077" 

Samuel,  Books  of 2078b  (Geden) 

Analysis,    life  of   Sam- 
uel  2079" 

Analysis,        reign       of 
David 20791' 

Contents 2079" 

Date  of  sources 2G801' 

Ethical    and    religious 
teaching 2G801' 

Greek  versions 2G801' 

cf  Jesse 1023"  (Roberts) 

cf  Palestine 221  lb  (Condor) 

Period  of  hist  oiy 2079a 

Position  in  canon 2G7Sb 

cf  Samuel 2077"  (Geden) 

cf  Saul 2098"  (Weir) 

Sources  of  history 2G80:* 

Two  main  narratives.  .2080" 
Sanaas 2081" 

cf  Senaah 2719b  (Ewin-i 

Sanabassar,          Sanabas- 

sarus 2G81"  (Angus) 

cf  Shenazzar 2701" 

cf  Sheshbazzar 27GG"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Zerubbabel 3147b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Sanasib 2081" 

Sanballat 2681a  (R.  D.  Wilson; 

Sanctification 2081b  (Rail) 

Change  from  formal  to 
ethical  idea 2683" 

Criticisms  and  answers  20SO ' 

Doctrine  stated 2G8.->b 

Element    in    Christian 
life 2684" 

Ethical  sense 2083" 

Etymology 2GSlb 

Fellowship  with  God.  .2081" 

Formal  sense  in  NT. .  .  2G82b 

Formal  sense  in  OT .  .  .  2682" 

As  God's  gift 2GS3b 

cf  Holiness 1403b  (Lambert) 

cf  Holy  Spirit 1400"  (Mullins) 

Instantaneous  and  en- 
tire?  2G84b 

cf  Justice 1781b  (Rail) 

Man's  task 2GS5" 

cf  Pauline  Theology. .  ,229()b  (Easton) 

Paul's  teaching  on.  .  .  .2083" 

Relation  to  God  per- 
sonal  2683b 

cf  Sacrifice,  NT 2G54a  (Williams) 

cf  Salvation 2665*  (Easton) 

cf  Self-righteousness..  .2715b  (Carver) 

cf  Sin 2801b  (McConnell) 

Time  and  method. .    .  .  2683b 


3300 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Sanctification,    Wesleyan 

Doctrine 2G85b  (Steelo 

Hyinnology 2686" 

Wesley's  personal   tes- 
timony  2GS6!l 

Sanctity,  Legislation  of 

ef  Astronomy 3()()h  (Maunder) 

Sanctuary 2fiSGh  (Wiener) 

ef  Altar 10G1'  (Wiener;  Caldecott) 

Critical  views 2GSG1' 

Difficulties   of    critical 
views 2687" 

Explanat  ion  at  tempt  ed 2GSS:1 

ef  High  Place 1390-  (East  on  •• 

d  Pentateuch 2298"  (Wiener) 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2447";  2450"  (Wiener) 

cf  Seveneh 2744:l 

cf  Tabernacle 2S87>>  (Caldeeott ;  Orr.i 

cf  Temple 2930-  (Caldecott ;   Or) 

cf  Worship 3111"  (Crannell> 

Sand 2688''  (Day) 

ef  Hock 2590"  (Day) 

cf  Shore 27791'  (Dayj 

Sandal 

cf  Dress 875''  (Eager) 

cf  Shoe 2779-  (East on) 

Sand  Flics 2GSS'< 

cf  Flea 11  IS1' (Day) 

cf  Gnat 1240-  (Day) 

cf  Insects 1473-  (Day; 

cfLice....  .  .1886>>(Day) 

Sand,  Glowing 

cf  Mirage 2066"  (Joy) 

Sand-lizard 2<>ss'- 

cf  Lizard 1900"  (Day) 

cf  Snail 2819-  (Day) 

Sanhcdrin 2G8Sb  (LevertofT) 

Constitution 2G89h 

cf  Jesus  Christ  (Powers 

of  Sanhcdrin) 1GGO-  (Orr ) 

cf  Jesus  Christ's  Arrest. 1G711'  (Maclaren) 

Jurisdiction 26S9h 

cf  Law,  Judicial 1858-  (Hirsch.) 

Literature 2090" 

Name 2G8S'> 

Origin  and  history ....  2689" 

Place  and  time  of  meet- 
ing  2600" 

Procedure 2690" 

cf  Senate 2719b  (Heidel) 

cf  Talmud 2904b  (Struck) 

Sansannah 2690" 

Saph(Sippai) 2690b 

Saphat 2690b 

cf  Shephatiah 2762-  (Orrj 

Saphatias 2690b 

cf  Shephatiah 2762-  (Orr) 

Sapheth 

cfSaphuthi..  .  .2690b 

Saphir 

cf  Shaphir 2750s  (Masterman) 


Saphuthi..  .  .2690'' 

cf  Shephatiah 2762"  (Orr) 

Sapphira 2G90'> 

cf  Ananias 129"  (Edwards) 

Sapphire 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  . 2S5G"  (Fletcher) 
Saqqareh 

cf  Memphis 20301'  (iVtrie) 

Sarahias 2G901' 

cf  Asebebias 260h 

cf  Sherebiah 2704''  (Wolf, 

Sarah  (Apoc) 26911'  (Boydj 

cf  Tobil,  Book  of 2990>>  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Sarah,  Sarai 2690''  (Boyd) 

cf  Abraham IS-  (Boyd) 

Birth  of  Isaac 2691- 

Burial  at  Hebron 269 lb 

Character  of 269 lh 

Forms  of  the  name. .  .  .2690'' 

Mythical  view 2691'' 

Relation  to  Abraham.  .2091 " 
Saraias 2691'' 

cf  Azaraias 342- 

cf  Seraiah 2732-  (Wolf) 

Saramel 

cf  Asaramel 263-  (Wolf) 

Saraph 2692- 

Sarchedonus 2692" 

cf  Esar-haddon 971-  (Clay) 

Sardeus 

ef  Zardeus 31321' 

Sardin(e),  Sardius 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2856-  (Fletcher) 
Sardis 2692-  (Banks) 

Biblical  references ....  2092" 

Excavations  at 2692" 

History..  .  .2692" 

Sardite 

cf  Sercd  .  .  .  .  2732'' 

Sardius 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .285(1"  (Fletcher) 
Sardonyx 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .  .2856"  (Fletcher) 
Sarepta 2692b 

cf  Zarephath 3132b  (Ewing) 

Sargon 2693-  (Clay) 

Capture  of  Samaria  by  57-  (Nicol) 

Sarid 2G92b 

Saron 2693" 

cf  Sharon 2750h  (Ewing) 

Sarothie 2693b 

Sarsechim 2093'' 

Saruch 2693h 

cf  Serug 2738b 

Satan 2693b  (Sweet) 

Character 2693'' 

Divine  unity 2696" 

Foreign  influence 2696" 

History  of 2694b 

Idea  in  OT 2695b 

cf  Job,  Book  of 1680b;  1681"  (Genung) 

cf  Joshua  (son  of  Jeho- 

zadak) 1748"  (Roberts) 


GENERAL  IXDKX 


3301 


Satan — continued 

Limitations  of 2696a 

Mythological  origin?   .2696" 

Names  of 2693'1 

No  systematic  teach- 
ing  2695" 

cf  Persian  Religion 

(Ancient) 23311'  (Tisdall) 

Personality  of 209")" 

cf  Principality 2454''  (Heidelj 

Relation  to  God 2695b 

Scriptural  statements  .2693'' 
cf    T  emp  ta  t  io  n   of 

Christ 2943"  (Anderson) 

Works  of 2691" 

cf  Zoroastrianism 3157"  (Easton) 

Satan,  Depths  of 2696b  (Forrester) 

Satan,  Synagogue  of .  .  .  .2696b  (Williams) 
Satchel 

cf  Bag 377"  (Eager) 

Sathrabuzanes 2696b 

cf  Shethar-bozenai.  .  .  .2766b  (Wolf) 

Satisfaction 2697"  (Do \vncr) 

Satraps 2697" 

Saturn  or  Moloch  Wor- 
ship   29Sa 

Satyr 2697"  (Day) 

cf  Goat L248b  (Day) 

cf  Jackal 1548a  (Day) 

cf  Zoology 31.55"  (Day) 

Saul 2G97b         (Weir); 

(Nicol) 
Attitude  of  Chronicles 

toward 2699b 

Character 2G991' 

David    in   the    service 

of 791b  (Weir) 

cf  David 790h  (Weir) 

Duplicate  accounts .  .  .  269cSb 

Genealogy 2G97b 

cf  Gibeah 122")"  (Ewing) 

Home 2697b 

cf  Ish-bosheth 150Sb  (Breslich) 

cf  Jabesh-gilead 1546b  (Ewing) 

cf  Jonathan 1730b  (Weir) 

cf  Judah,  Kingdom  of.!759a  (Weir) 
Last  battle  and  death  .  2699" 

cf  Mad,  Madness 1961"  (Macalister) 

Meaning  of  name 2697'" 

cf  Palestine 221.5"  (Cornier) 

Posterity  of 2G99b 

Reign  and  fall 2693" 

Relations  with  David.  269Sb 
Relations  with  Samuel  269Sb 
Rescue       of       Jabesh- 
gilead  2G98b 

cf  Samuel 2677"  (Geden) 

cf  Samuel,  Books  of. .  .  2678b  (Gedcn) 
Sources  and  narrative  .  2698" 
Struggles  against  Phi- 
listines. .  .  . .2698" 


Saul — continual 

Virtues  of 2701  >' 

Weaknesses  of 2G'.I9'' 

Saul  of  Tarsus 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle..  .226  I1'  (A.  T.  Robertson; 
Savaran 

cf  A  varan  ...  .  ,31()ri 

Save 2700' 

Savias 2700" 

<:f  Uzzi 3013"  (Roberts) 

Saviour 2700"  (Easton  j 

cf  Salvation 266.")"  (Easton) 

Savor 27()0b  (Edwards) 

cf  Odor 21 7S1' 

cf  Triumph 30221'  (A.  W.  Evans) 

Saw 

cf  Tools 2998b  (Eastonj 

Sawing  Asunder 316b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Punishments 2.J04b  (Hirschj 

Sayest 2701" 

Sayings,  Dark 789"  (Margolis) 

Sayings,  Faithful 1091-  (Rutherfurdj 

Sayings  of  Jesus 

cf  Logia 1910"  (Smith) 

Sayings,  Unwritten 

cf  Agrapha 72"  (Smith) 

Scab,  Scabbed 2701"  (Macalister) 

Scabbard,  Sheath 

cf  Armor,  Arms 2f)l"  (Nicol) 

<•!'  War 3069b  (Nicol) 

Scaffold 2701" 

Scale 

cf  Balance 379b  (Eager) 

cf  Siege 2786"  (Xicol) 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Scales 2701"  (Luering) 

cf  Leviathan 1868b  (Day) 

Scall 2701b 

Scape-goat 

cf  Azazel 343"  (Moller) 

Scarlet 

cf  Colors 674b  (Patch) 

cf  Dyeing 8S3b  (Patch) 

Scarlet  (Worm) 2701b 

cf  Colors 674b  (Patch) 

cf  Dyeing SS3b  (Patch) 

cf  Worm 3109"  (Day) 

Scattered  Abroad 

cf  Dispersion 855"  (Nicol) 

Scent 270 lb  (Easton) 

Sceptre,  Scepter 2701b  (N.  Isaacs) 

cf  Staff 28471' 

cf  Staves 2850"  (Caldecott) 

Sceva 2702"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Schism 2702" 

Scholasticism 1018b  (Alexander) 

School 

cf  Tyrannus 3030"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Schoolmaster 2702h  (Easton) 

cf  Pauline  Theology. .  .2292"  (Easton) 
cf  Tutor .  .  .  .  3028a 


GENERAL 1XDEX 


Schools  of  the  Prophets 

cf  Education 900b  (Meyer) 

cf  Prophets 24591'  (Orelli) 

Science 2702''  (Kutherfurdj 

cf  Gnosticism 12  10"  (Hutherfimi  i 

Scimitar 270.'!'' 

Scoff,  Scoffer 2703" 

Scorn 2703"  (McPheelersi 

Scorpion 270)5''  (Day 

cf  Insects 1  17:5-  (Day 

Scorpions,  Chastising  with 

cf  Punishments 2506"  (Hirschj 

cf  Scorpion 2703''  (Dayj 

Scourge,  Scourging 270-1"  (I)osker 

Scrabble 2701" 

Screech  Owl 

cf  Night-monster 21431'  i Sweet j 

Scribes 2704''  (Ilirscli) 

Formalism      result     of 
scribal   work 27051' 

Generally  Pharisees.  .  .2705" 

( !  real  ness  of  the  law  .  .  27051' 

Honor  accorded  to. .  .  .  270  lb 

cf  Lawyer IS.")1,)-  (Hirsch) 

Outgrowth   of   priestly 
service 270  I1' 

Proverbs  regarding. .  .  .270")" 

Remuneration 270")" 

Writers  and  teachers  of 

the  law 2704'' 

Scrip 27051' 

cf  Bag )577"  (Eauer) 

Scripture 2700"  (Orr) 

cf  Bible l.V.V'  (Orr) 

Scriptures,  Search  the 

cf    Search    the    Scrip- 
tures  2710"  ( I  Tarry; 

Scroll 

rf  .Roll 2507"  (Richardson" 

Sculpture     and     Inscrip- 
tions 

At  Carchemish 577b  (Pinches] 

Scum 2700" 

cf  Rust 2(»27>>  (Patch) 

Scurvy 2706"  (Maealisten 

Scythians 270C)"  (Porter) 

cf  Jeremiah 15S9'>  (Orellij 

cf  Parthians 2251''  (Porter) 

cf  Zephaniah,  Book  of  3145"  (Eiselen) 
Scythopolis 2706'' 

cf  Beth-shean 452''  (living) 

Sea 270(1''  (Day) 

cf  Sea  of  Jazer 2707'' 

Sea,  Adriatic 

cf  Adria 02"  (Allen  i 

Sea  of  Arabah 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright  ) 

Sea,  Brazen 

cf  Sea,  The  Molten.  .  . 270S"  (Caldc-cott 
Sea  of  Chinnereth 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of 116oa  (Ewing) 


Sea,  Dead;  Eastern 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

Sea,  Former 

cf  Dead  Sea 801"  (Wright) 

cf  Former 11)50"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Sea  of  Galilee 1165a  (Ewing) 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2776"  (Xicolj 
Sea  of  Glass.  .  .                .  .12)51''  (Orr) 
Sea,  The  Great 2707''  (Ewing) 

cf  Acco.  .  .  .  .  .2S"  (Porter) 

Israel  and  the;  sea 2707'' 

cf  Joppa 17)5 11'  (Ewing) 

cf  Mediterranean  Sea.  .202C)1'  (Heidel) 

Names  of 2707b 

In  the  NT 270S" 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle..  .2264b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 
Sea,     Hinder;      Utmost; 

Uttermost;  Western 

cf  Mediterranean  Sea..202Gb  (Heidel i 
Sea  of  Jazer 27071' 

cf  Jazer 1572"  (Ewing) 

cf  Sea 2707"  (Day) 

Sea  of  Joppa 

cf  Mediterranean  Sea.202(ib  (Heidel) 
Sea  of  Lot 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

cf  Lake 1S22"  (Day; 

Sea,  Mediterranean 2()2Gb  (Heidel) 

Sea-mew 2707"  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Cuckoo 7l)5"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Sea,     The     Molten,     or 

Brazen 270S"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Temple 2!))50"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Sea-monster 2707"  (Day) 

cf  Dragon S7)5"  (Day) 

cf  Jackal 15  IS"  (Day) 

cf  Water-spout 3075"  (Day) 

cf  Whale 30S2"  (Day) 

Sea  of  the  Philistines 

cf  Mediterranean  Sea.202(ih  (Heidel) 
Sea  of  the  Plain  (Arabah) 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

Sea,  Red 253S1'  (Wright) 

Sea,  Salt 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

Sea  of  Sodom  (Sodomit- 

ish) 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

Sea  of  Tiberias 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of 11  Of)"  (Ewing) 

Sea,  Western 

cf  Mediterranean  Sea.  .202(5''  (Heidel) 
Seah 2708" 

cf  Weights  anil  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Seal 2708"  (Edwards) 

Among  the  Hebrews.  .270Sb 

Baptism  as 2709b 

Circumcision  as 2709b 

Metaphorical  use 2709" 

cf  Mystery 2104*  (Edwards) 


dEXERAL   IXDEX 


Seal — continued 

Prevalence       in       an- 
tiquity  270S" 

of  Print 2455"  (Richardson 

of  Ring 2591"  (Crannell  > 

cf  Sealed  Fountain.    .    2709'' 
cf     Text     of     the     Old 

Testament. .  .  .2957''  ( Weir 

Uses  of  sealing.  .         .  .2709' 

Sealed  Fountain 2709'' 

of  Jerusalem 101  1     (Masterman 

of  Seal 2709"  (Edwards . 

Sealskin 2709'' 

cf  Badger 3701'  (Day) 

of  Porpoise 2  122" 

cf  Skin 2S13h  (Luering) 

Scam,  Seamless 2710" 

Sear 2710" 

Search 2710"  (dcrberdiiig! 

of  Searehings 2710"  (X.  Isaacs/ 

Search  the  Scriptures..  .  .2710"  (Harry) 

Searehings 2710"  (X.  Isaacs' 

cf  Search 2710"  (derberding; 

Seasons 2710''  (Joy) 

of  Astronomy 304"  (Maunder) 

of  Cold 073'-  (Joy) 

of  Heat 1352"  (Joy) 

cf  Rain 2525''  (Joy) 

cf  Summer 2870"  (Porter) 

Seat 27101'  (Cotton) 

of  Stool 2Xo2b  (Cotton; 

Seats,  Chief OOo1'  (J.  M.  Wilson; 

Seba 2710''  (Pinches) 

of  Sabaeans. .  . .2029"  (PinchcsJ 


of  Sheba . 


(Weir) 
(Ewing; 


Sebam 2711 

Sebat 

cf  Shcbat 27531' 

Secacah 2711"  (Masterman; 

Sechenias 2711" 

cf  Shoeaniah 2754''  (Wolf; 

Sechu 

of  Secu 2711''  (Ewing) 

Second  Advent 010"  (Bevan) 

Secondarily 271 11' 

Second  Coming 

of  Eschatology  of  the 

XT 9791'  (Vos; 

of  Paroiisia.  .  .  .2249"  (Easton) 

Second  Death 

of  Death Sll"         (Macalister 

vinok i 

of    Esehatology   of   the 

XT 979><  (Vos 

Second  Sabbath 203  I1'  (Baur' 

Secret..  27 II1' 

Sect .  .2711''  (W.  L.  Walk. 

of  Heresy  .  .  .  .1377"  (Jacobs) 

Secu .2711''  (Ewing' 

Secundus 271 1'1 

Secure,  Securely,  Security 271  lb  (Doskon 

of  Surety  .  .  .  .2S72"  (Reeve) 


Scdekias  (SedeciasJ    ... 
/edechias  
Scdit  ion 

2712" 
3141" 

2712" 

Seduce,  Seducer  
cf  Crimes  .  .  .  . 
cf  Punishments  
Seduction  

See       

2712"  (Edwards; 
745''  (Hirsch; 
25041'  (Hirsch) 
7  IS"  (Hirsch; 
2712'-  (M.  O.  Evans, 

of  Revelat  ion    . 
Seed  
of  Agricult  nre 
of  Clean  
of  Regeneration  
Seer  
cf  Prophet  ,  Prophecy. 
Seethe  
Sogub        

25731'  (Warfield. 
2712''  (East  on; 
75'-  (.Patch, 
007"  (Crannoll; 
2540''  (Xuelsen; 
2713"  (Orn 
2  15'.  I1'  (Orelli.) 
2713" 
2713"  (Wolf) 

of  (  rczer 

1222"  (Masterman; 

Soir 

2713"  (Ewing) 

of  Edom 

S99"  (Ewing) 

Scirah                           

2713" 

Seirath 
of  Scirah                 

2713" 

Sola                                 . 

27  13'-  (Ewing; 

Bo/rah  of  Amos  112. 
Commercial         impor- 
tance   
Impressiveness  of  oil} 
of  Petra  
of  Joktheel 

2713'' 

2714>> 

2714" 

17271' 

Location  
Petra 

2713b 

27  131' 

of  Stone,  Stones 

2S50"  (Dav; 

Selah  
of  Music  .  . 
of  Psalms,  Book  of.  .  .  . 
Sc'a  hammahlekoth 

27111' 
2094''  (Millar) 
24SS1'  (Sampey; 
2711'' 

Seled              

27111' 

Selemia 
of  Selemias  
Selemias                      .    .  .  . 

27141' 
2714h 

Seleucia                           .  .  . 

27141'  (Christie) 

I  Fist  ory  of        

2715" 

Port  of  Antioch  
Ruins  of 

27141' 
2715" 

Seleucidae 

of  Seleucus 

2715"  (Hutchison  > 

Scleucus 

2715"  (Hutchison  ) 

of  Ilehodorus 

1370''  (Hutchison) 

Self-control  

27  15'' 

Self-denial 
cf  Abstinence  
Self-righteousness  
of  Sanctificat  ion         .  . 

24  '>  (Eager) 
2715''  (Carver; 
20S1'J  (Rail; 

Self-surrender  
In  Christ's  teaching.  .  . 
Examples  in  ()T.  .  . 
Ideal      in      law      am 
prophets 

2715''  (Pollard) 
2710" 

Ideal  in  XT 

2710" 

Self-will.  . 

27101'  (Dosken 

330  1 


GENERAL  INDEX 


(Mac 

(Mac 


Sell,  Seller 

ef  Lydiu  (country)..  .  .1943"  (Banks) 
cf  Trade 3002"  (East on j 

Selvedge 27161' 

cf  Clasps 6651'  (Caldecolt) 

Sem 2717" 

Semachiah 2717' 

cf  Ismachiah loll1' 

Seniei 2717'' 

cf  Shimei 27701' 

Semeias 271  7' 

cf  Shimei 2770'1 

Semein 2717" 

Seineis 2717" 

cf  Shimei 2770-  (Mack) 

Semellius 

cf  Samellius 2674" 

cf  Shimshai 277 1"  (Wolf) 

Semiramis 3501'  (Pinches) 

Semis 

cf  Seineis 2717" 

Semite's,  Semitic  Religion2717"  (Mack- 

cf  Abraham IS"  (Boyd) 

cf  Arphaxad 259b 

cf  Ashtoreth 2701'  (Sayce) 

cf  Assyria, 290b  (Sayce) 

cf  Baal 34.")"  (Sayce) 


cf  Babylonia 

Biblical  references .  . 

cf  Chiun 

cf  Eber 

Immanence  of  (!od . 
cf  Israel,  Religion  of 

Mixed  racially 

cf  Moloch  (Molech) 
Moral  character 

Deity 

Original  home  of. .  .  . 
Personality  of  Deity. 
Semitic  languages. .  . 
Semit  ie  religion .... 


.358b  (Clay; 

.27 17" 

.012"  (Margolisi 

.S90>'  (Grant: 

.271!)" 

.  1.")3()''  (Orellij 

.27  IS" 

.2074"  (Nicol) 


of 


.2717'- 

.2719" 
.27  IS1' 
,2718h 


Sons  of  Shem  .  .  .  .2717' 


Table  of  C.en  10   . 

cf  Table  of  Nation.- 

Theism  of  Semites . 
Senaa.li 

cf  Ilassenuah 

cf  Sanaas 

Senate4,  Senator 


.27 IS" 

.2S9S>>  (Pinches) 

.2710" 

.27 11.)1'  (Ewingi 

.  13421' 

.2681" 

.2710''  (Ilcideh 

cf  Government 12S7"  ( Ileidel) 

cf  Sanhedrin 20SS>>  (LevertolT) 

Seneca 

cf  Nero 213")"  (Angus) 

Seneh 2720"  (E\vingi 

cf  Bozez 5121'  (living) 

cf  Michmash 204S"  (living) 

Senir 2720"  (Ewingi 

cf  Hermon 137S"  (Ewingi 

cf  Shenir 27(5 1" 

Sennacherib 2720"  (Clay);   36T 

Campaign  against,  Ju- 
dah..  .  .2720'' 


(Marais) 
.2721"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
(Masterman) 


Sennacherib — continued 

Early  campaigns 2720" 

Later  years  and  death  27201' 

Name  and  rise 2720" 

cf  Nineveh 2149"  (Pinches) 

cf  Share/er 2750"  (Eiselen) 

Senses 27201'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Sensual 2721"  (Pratt) 

cf  Psychology 2491' 

Sent 

cf  Siloam 279 l:i 

Sentence 2721" 

Senuah 2721" 

cf  Ilassenuah 13421' 

Seorim 2721" 

Separate 27211' 

cf  Na/irite 2124"  (Christie) 

cf  Saints 2661"  (Estes) 

Separation 27211' 

cf  Heifer,  Red 13671'  (Easton) 

cf  Na/irite 2124"  (Christie) 

cf  I'ncleanncss 3()35h  (Williams) 

Sephar 272 11'  (Fulton) 

Sepharad 2721b  (Orr) 

Sepharvaim 2721''  (Pinches) 

cf  I wah.  .  15441'  (Pinches) 

cf  Sepharvites 2722" 

Sepharvites 2722" 

cf  Sepharvaim 27211'  (Pinches.) 

Sepphoris 2722" 

Septuagint 2722"    (Thackeray.);     46 1'1 

(Orr);     4571'     (Dusker); 
857h  (Nicol) 
Characteristics    of    the 

LXX 27291' 

General  features. .  .  .2731" 
Grouping  on  internal 

evidence 27291' 

Hexatcuch,  the 27291' 

Latest    LXX    trans- 
lations  27301' 

"  Latter"  pro|)hets.  .2730" 
"Writings,"  the.  .  .  .27301' 
Differences        between 
( ireek    and    Hebrew 

texts 2731" 

Sequence 2731" 

Subject-matter 2731b 

Evidence    of    prologue 

to  Sirach 27241' 

Importance 2722" 

leased  on  early  lext.27221' 
Bible    of    the    early 


cf  Jeremiah 1591"  (Orelli) 

cf  .Jeroboam  I 1593"  (Mosiman) 

cf  Manuscripts 1084"  (Richardson) 

Name 2722'- 

Number,  titles  and  or- 
der of  books 272S1' 

Contents.  .  .  .2728'' 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3365 


Septuagint — continued 

Number,  titles  ami  order  of  hooks — continued 
Grouping  and  order 

of  books 2729" 

Titles 2729 " 

cf  Paj)yrus 2241"  (Goodspecd) 

cf  Pentateuch 2302"  (Wiener) 

cf  Ptolemy 24991'  (Angus) 

Reconstruction  of  text  .2727'' 
Ancient  versions. .  .  .2727'' 
Coptic,  Ethiopia  and 

Syriac 2727'' 

Manuscripts 2728" 

Printed  texts 2728" 

Reconstruct  ion       of 

the  original  text  .  .272S1' 
cf    Text    and     Manu- 
scripts of  the  NT.  .  .2950''  (Sitterly) 
cf  Text  of  the  OT.  .  .  .2960"  (Weir) 

Traditional  origin 2723" 

Christian  views 272:}'' 

Evidence  of  Aristo- 

bulus  and  Philo.  .2723" 
Letter  of  Aristeas. .  .272:}" 
Transmission  of  LXX 

text 27241' 

Aquila 2725'' 

Hesychius 2727" 

Lucian 2727" 

Official    revision    of 

Hebrew 272")" 

Origen  and  the  Hexa- 

pla 272(5" 

Symmachus 2726" 

Theodotion 2725h 

cf  Versions,  Georgian. .  3048"  (East  on) 

cf  Writing 3121"  (Richardson) 

Sepulchre 2732" 

cf  Burial 529"  (Eager) 

cf  Jerusalem 101 11'  (Masterman) 

Serah 2732" 

Seraiah 2732"  (Wolf) 

cf  Azaraias 342" 

cf  Saraias 2G911' 

Seraphim 2732"  (Carver) 

Scrar 27321' 

cf  Sisera 2S12'1  (Schenk) 

Sercd 2732'' 

Sergiua  Paulus 22921'  (Kerr) 

Serjeants 2732b 

Sermon  on   the   Mount, 

The 2732b  (Miller) 

Analysis 2734" 

cf  Beatitudes 419"  (Lambert) 

cf  Ethics 1013"  (Alexander) 

cf  Ethics  of  Jesus.      .  .  1026"  (Stalker) 

Heavens 2733'1 

Historicity 2733" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1042'-  (Orr) 

Kingdom  of  God 2734" 

cf  Kingdom  of  God.  1805"  (Stalker) 
Message,  the 2733b 


Sermon  on  the  Mount,  The; — continued 

Motive  and  conduct  .  .2735" 

New  righteousness,  the  2734 b 

Parallels 2732 ' 

Principles 27351' 

Scene 27331' 

cf  Sermon  on  the  Plain, 

The 273(1"  (Miller) 

Time  and  occasion  ....  2733" 
Sermon    on     the     Plain, 

The 2736"  (Miller) 

cf      Sermon      on      the 

Mount,  The 2732''  (Miller) 

Seron 2736" 

Serpent 2736"  (Day) 

cf  Adder 55"  (Day) 

Biblical  names 2737a 

cf  Bittern 484"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Figurative  use 2738" 

cf  Hedgehog 1367" 

cf  Jerusalem 16101'  (Masterman) 

In  the  Orient 2736" 

cf  Owl 22051'  (Stratton-Porter) 

In  Palestine 2736'' 

cf  Porcupine 2421''  (Day) 

cf  Reptile 2561" 

cf  Viper 3051b 

Serpent,  Brazen 

cf  Nehushtan 2132"  (Longacre) 

Serpent-charming 2738h 

Serpent,  Crooked 2738'' 

cf  Astronomy 300''  (Maunder) 

Serpent,  Fiery 

cf  Nehushtan 2132"  (Longacre) 

cf  Serpent 2736"  (Day) 

Serpent  Worship 2738''  (Orr) 

cf  Nehushtan 2132"  (Longacre) 

Serug 2738'' 

cf  Saruch 2693'' 

Servant 273Sb  (McGlothlin) 

cf  Manservant 1983b 

cf  Slave,  Slavery 2815"  (Raffety) 

Servant  of  Jehovah  (The 

Lord) 2739"  (Hough) 

Date   of   Servant   sec- 
tions   2740" 

Historical  situation  .  .  .2739" 

Ideas  of  Isaiah  40-66 .  .  27391' 

cf  Isaiah 1 495b  (Robinson) 

cf     Mediation,     Medi- 
ator  2020b  (Edwards) 

cf  Messiah 2041"  (Crichton) 

Messianic  significance .  2742b 

Not  by  Prophet  Isaiah  2739" 

Personality  of  Servant  .2741" 

Place  in  OT 2742" 

Psychology       of       the 
prophecy 2742" 

Servant  passages 2740" 

Unity  of  Second  Isaiah  27391' 
Servants,  Solomon's  .  .  .  .2825''  (Mack) 


3300 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Service 2742b  (Raffety) 

cf  Servant 273Sb  (McGlothlin) 

Serving-women 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.244Gb  (Wiener) 
Servitude 

cf  Servant 273Sb  (McGlothlin) 

cf  Slave,  Slavery 2815-  (Raffety) 

Sesis 27433 

cf  Shashai 2751- 

Sesthel 2743- 

cf  Bezalel 4,59''  (Farr) 

Set 2743-  (Dosker) 

Selh,  Sheth 27431'  (S.  F.  Hunter);  139b 

Sethur 27431' 

Setting 27431" 

Settle  (noun) 27431' 

cf  Temple 2030-  (Caldecott ;  <>rn 

Settle  (verb) 27431'  (Dosker 

Seven 27431' 

cf  Xuml)er 21591'       (Smith!;        2100- 

(Smith) 
Seven  Churches 

cf     Angels     of     Seven 

Churches 135''  (Banks; 

Seveneh 2744- 

cf  Aramaic  Language  .  222-  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Egypt 900-  (Petrie) 

cf  Papyrus 223X1'  (Goodspeed) 

cf  Sanctuary 20S01'  (Wiener; 

Seven  Princes 

cf  Carshena 5S()'> 

cf  Prince 245:!-  ( Baur) 

Seven  Stars 

cf  Astronomy 3001'  (Maunder  ; 

Seventh  Day 

cf  Sabbath 2G291'  (Sampey) 

Seventy 2744- 

cf  Xumber 2157-  (Smith; 

Seventy  Disciples 2744-  (Carver) 

Seventy  Weeks 2744-  (Orr) 

cf  Daniel 782''  (R.  D.  Wilson; 

Seventy  Years 27441' 

cf  Captivity 5G91'  (Xicolj 

Sever 274  I1' 

Several,  Severally 27441' 

Shaalabbin 2745- 

Shaalbim 2745''  (Ewing; 

Sliaalbonite 2745- 

Shaalim,  Land  of 2745-  (Ewing) 

Shaaph 2715- 

Shaaraim 2745-  (Masterman) 

cf  Shilhim 27G8b 

Shaashgaz 27451' 

Shabbethai 2745b  (Wolf) 

cf  Sabbateus 2629b 

Shachia 2745b 

Shaddai 

cf  God,  Names  of 12G4b  (Alack) 

Shade,  Shadow,  Shadow- 
ing  2745b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Shadow  of  Death. .  .  2740"  (W.  L.  Walker) 


Shadow  of  Death 

Shadrach 

cf  Abednego 

cf  Ilananiah 

cf  Meshach 

cf  Song  of  Three  Chil 

dren 

Shady  Trees 

cf  Lotus  Trees 

Shaft 

cf  Archery  

cf  Armor,  Arms 

Shagee 

Shaharaim 

Shahazumah 

Shalem 

Shalim 

cf  Shaalim,  Land  of    . 

Shalishah,  Land  of 

Shallecheth 

Shallum  (general) 

cf  Jehoahaz 

cf  Jeroboam  II 

cf  Meshelemiah 

cf  Mcshullam 

cf  Salem  (person    ... 

cf  Salemas 

cf  Sallumus 

cf  Salom 

cf  Salum 

cf  Shillem,  Shillemites 

Shallum  (king; 

Shallun 

Shalmai 

cf  Salmai 

Shalman 

cf  Beth-arbel 
Shalmaneser 

cf  Assyria 

cf  Jehu 

cf  Syria 

Western  campaigns .  . 

Shama 

Shamai 

cf  Salmai 

Shamariah 

cf  Shemariah 

Shamash 

Shambles 

Shame 

Shamed  (Shemed 

cf  Shemer 

Shamefacedness 

cf  Shamef astness .  .  .  . 

Shamcfastness 

Shamcr 

cf  Shemer 

Shamgar 

Shamhuth 

cf  Shammua,   Sham 

muah 

Shamir  (person) 


.2740-  (W.  L.  Walker) 
2740"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 
4b  (R.  D.  Wilson) 
13331'  (R(>eve) 
203S-  (R.  D.  Wilson; 

2S34-  (T.  W.  Davics) 

274Gb 

1931b  (Masterman) 

274(Jb 

233b  (Eagerj 

251-  (Xicolj 

274Gb 

274(ib 

2746b 

274G1'  (Ewing) 


2745- 
274G1' 
2747- 
2747* 


(Ewing) 

(Ewing) 

(Masterman; 

(Umbach) 
1575-  (Genung) 
1594-  (Caldecott  . 
203Sb 

203S1'  (Lees) 
2GG3- 
2GG3- 
2GG3b 


(Caldecott) 


27G01'  (Wolf) 

2748b 

274Sb 

27GOb  (Wolf) 

2748b  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 


2749b 

2749- 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Shamir  (places).  .  .    2749"  (Masterman! 

Shamlai 

cf  Salmai 2003'' 

cf  Subai 2868" 

Shaninia 2749" 

Shammah 2749"  (Wolf) 

cf  Harod,  Well  of.  ,     .  .  1340b  (Ewing) 

cf  Shimea  .  .  .  .  27(S91> 

cf  Shimei.  .  -  .277(V  (Mack) 

Shammai ....  2749b 

Shammoth 

cf  Shammah 2749"  (Wolf) 

Shamrnua,  Shaininuah. .  .2749b 

cf  Shemaiah 2759b  (Wolf) 

cf  Shimea 27691' 

Shamsherai 27491' 

Shape 27491'  (Luering) 

Shapham 27491' 

Shaphan 2749>>  (Wolf) 

cf  Toteinism 3000"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Shaphat 2750" 

Shapher 

cf  Shepher 2763" 

Shaphir 2750"  (Masterman) 

Sharai 2750" 

Sharaim 

cf  Shaaraim 2745"  (Masterman) 

Sharar 

cf  Sacar 2030" 

Share 

cf  Plow 2409"  (Patch) 

Sharezer 275011  (Eiselen) 

cf  Adrammelech Olb  (Beecher) 

cf  Regem-melech 2510b 

cf  Sennacherib 2720"  (Clay) 

Sharon 2750b  (Ewing) 

cf  Lassharon 1S40" 

cf  Saron 2693" 

Sharonite 2751" 

cf  Sharon 2750b  (Ewing) 

cf  Shitrai 277Sb 

Sharuhen 2751" 

cf  Shaaraim 2745"  (Masterman) 

cf  Shilhim 276Sb 

Shashai 2751" 

cf  Sesis  (Apocy 2743" 

Shashak 2751" 

Shaul,  Shaulitcs 2751" 

Shaveh-kiriathaim 2751b 

Shaveh,  Vale  of 2751b 

cf  King's  Vale 180Sa  (Masterman) 

Shaving 2751b  (Qrr) 

Shavsha 27511'  (Wolf) . 

cf  Shcva 2766b 

Shawl 2752a 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

Sheaf,  Sheaves 2752"  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 75b  (Patch) 

Sheal 2752a 

Shealtiel 2752" 

cf  Salathiel  (Apor)..  .  .  2662b 


Shear 

cf  Sheep 2756''  (Day) 

cf  Sheep  Tending.  .     .  .  275S"  (Patch; 

Sheariah 27521' 

Shearing  House 27521' 

Shear-jashub 27521' 

cf  Immanuel 1  I57h  (A.  W.  Evai^ 

cf  Jashub 1571" 

cf  Jushab-hesed .  .          . 1781b 

cf     Maher-shalal-hash- 
baz 1967" 

Sheath 

cf  Sword 252b  (Nicol) 

Sheba  (person  and  tribe  . 2752b  (Weir) 

Arabian  tribe 2752" 

Civilization 2753!1 

History 2752'- 

Religion 2753" 

cf  Sabaeans 2029"  (Pinches) 

cf  Seba 2710b  (Pinches  ; 

cf  I'z 3012b  (Weir; 

Slieba  (place) 2753"  (Masterman 

cf  Shema  (place) 2759b  (Masterman; 

Slieba,  Queen  of 2514b  (Roberts) 

Shebah 

cf  Shibah 2707b 

Shebam 

cf  Sebam 2711"  (Ewing) 

Shebaniah 2753b 

cf  Shecaniah 275  i1'  (Wolf) 

Shebarim 27531' 

of  Quarries 251 21'  (Day) 

Shebat 2753b 

cf  Calendar.  .  .  .541''  (Porter) 


Shebor 

Shebna 2753b  (Roberts 

cf  Eliakim 929"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Reference  in  Isaiah  22  2753b 

Reference  in  2  K  18.  .2754" 

Pvelation    of    the     two 
references 2754" 

cf  Zabud 312sb  (Roberts) 

Shebuel 2754b 

cf  Shubael 2781" 

Shecaniah,  Shechaniah...  27541'  (Wolf) 

cf  Sechenias  (Apoc.i.  .  .2711" 

cf  Shebaniah 2753b 

Shechem 2755"  (Ewing) 

Israelite  history 2755b 

cf  Jacob's  Well 1556"  (Ewingj 

Location  and  features  .  2756" 

Modern  Shechem 2756" 

Patriarchal  history. .  .  .2755;l 

cf  Refuge,  Cities  of.  .  .  2545b  (Ewing 

cf  Sychar 2S76b  (Ewing  > 

Shechemites 2750b 

Shed,  Shedding 2756b  (Dosker) 

Shedeur 275(ib 

Sheep 2756b  (Day) 

Care  of 2757" 

cf  Cattle.  .  ...  .583b  (Day) 

cf  Ewe.  .  .  .1049"  (Day) 


3308 


(JKNKKAL  INDEX 


Sheep — conlin  uctl 

Figurative  references.  .2757'' 

cf  Food.  .  H23b  (Eager) 

cf  Herdsman 13751'  (Patch) 

of  Lamb.  .  1822b  (Day) 

Names 2750b 

OT  roferenccs 2757" 

cf  Ram  (animal) 25271' 

Sheep  of  Palestine.  .  .  .  27501' 

ef  Shepherd 2703'  (Patch) 

Species 2750b 

Sheepcote,  Sheepfold. .  .  .  27571'  (Patch) 
Shee])  (late 27.1s > 

cf  Bethesda 44-11'  (Mastennan) 

cf  Jerusalem  dates. .  .  .  15971'  (Mastennan) 

cf  Sheep  Market 2758" 

Sheep  Market  .  .  .  .2758"* 

cf  Bethesda 4441'  (Mastennan) 

cf  Sheep  date 2758" 

Sheep-master 2758:i 

cf  Sheep-shearing 2758'1  (Patch) 

Sheep-raising 

cf  Agriculture 78"  (Patch) 

cf  Herdsman 1:57;?'  (Patch) 

Sheep-shearing 2758"  i.Patchj 

Sheepskin 

cf  Hot  lie 509b  (Eau-er) 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

cf  Hams'  Skins 2530" 

Sheep  Tending.  .  .  .2758"  (Patch) 

Sheerah.  .  2758" 

Sheet 2758" 

Shehariali 27  58 " 

Shekel.  .  2758"  (Porter) 

cf  Money 2070"  (Porter) 

cf  Shekel  of  the  Sanctu- 
ary or  Sacred  Shekel  2758b 

cf  Stater 2850" 

ef  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures. .  .  .3079"  (Porter) 
Shekel     of     the     King's 

Weight        or        Royal 

Shekel .  .  2758b 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Shekel  of  the  Sanctuary 

or  Sacred  Shekel 2758b 

cf  Shekel 27f>S"  (Porter) 

Shekinah 27.")Sb 

cf  Ollory 123.-)b  (Betteridge) 

Shelah 27")S'' 

cf  Sala,  Salah 2(i»)2" 

cf  Siloam 2791"  (Mastennan) 

Shelah,  Pool  of 

cf  Jerusalem l()()lb;       KiOti1'     (Master- 
man  ! 
Shelanites 

cf  Shelah 27.")8b 

Shelemiah 275Sb  (Wolf) 

cf  Meshelemiah 203Sb 

Slieleph '27  M* 

Shelesh .  .  .  .  2759" 


Shclomi 2759" 

Shelomith 2759"  (Wolf) 

cf  Salimoth  (Apocj..  .  .2G()3b 

Shelomoth 2759" 

Shelumiel 2759"  (Wolf) 

cf  Salamiel  (Apoc) .  .  .  .20(52" 

Shem 2759"  (Pinches) 

cf  Hani  (person) 1323b  (Pinchos) 

cf  Hani  (place) 1324"  (Ewing) 

cf  .Japheth 150Sb  (Pinches) 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2898b  (Pinches) 

Shenia  (persons) 2759b  (Wolf) 

cf  Sammus  (Apoc).  .  .  .2(574b 
cf  Shiniei 2770" 

Shema  (])lace) 2759b 

cf  Sheba 2753" 

Shemaah 2759b 

Shemaiah 2759h  (Wolf) 

cf  Maasmas  (Apoc)  .  .  .  1940" 
cf  Sabbeus  (Apoc).  .  .  .2630" 
cf  Samaias  (Apoc) .  .  .  .2071"  (Angus) 

cf  Sameus  (Apoc) 2074" 

cf     Shammua,     Shani- 
muah 2749b 

Sheinariah.  .  .  .2700' 


(Mack) 
(Masterman) 

(Mast  ernian) 


(Wolf) 


.  27fi()b 


.2771"  (Wolf) 


(Millar) 

(Sampey) 

(Wolf) 

(Mack) 


Shemeber 

cf  Shinab 

Shemed 

cf  Shemer 2700b  (Wolf) 

Shemer 27(50b  (Wolf) 

cf  Shomer 2779b 

Shemida,  Shemidah,  She- 

midaites 27ti()b 

Sheminith 

cf  Music 2094b 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of..  .  .24S7" 

Shemiramoth 2701" 

Shemites 

cf  Semites 2717" 

Shemuel 2701" 

cf  Samuel 2(577" 

Shen 2701" 

Shenazar 

cf  Shenazzar 27(51" 

Shenaz/ar 27(51" 

cf    Sanabassar,    Sana- 

bassarus 2081- 

Shenir 2701" 

cf  Senir.  .                    .  .  .2720"  (Ewing) 
Sheol 2701"  (Orr) 

Abode  of  the  dead.  .  .  .2701b 

cf  Abraham's  Bosom.  . 22b  (Orr) 

cf  Death 811"(Macalister;  liavinck) 

cf  Eschatology  of   the 

OT 972"  (Orr) 

cf  Hades 1314b  (Vos) 

cf  Hell 1371"  (Orr) 

cf  Immortal 1458b  (Orr) 

Name 27(51" 

Not  out  of  (Jod's  rule.  2761b 

Not     state    of    uncon- 
sciousness. .  . .2761b 


(Angus) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Sheot — continued 

Post-canonical      devel- 
opment   2762" 

Relation  to  future  life.27611' 

cf  Resurrection 2502"  (Easton) 

cf  Retribution 2570-  (M'Caig) 

Shophain 27(52" 

Shephatiah 27(52'  (Orr) 

cf  Saphat  (Apoc) .  .    .  .2090'' 

cf  Saphat  ias  (Apoc) .  .  .2090'' 

cf  Saphuthi  (Apoc)..  .  .2(590'' 
Shephelah 2702"  (Ewing) 

Districts  and  features.  27G21' 

Five  valleys 27G21' 

cf  Judah,  Territory  of.  1703"  (Masterman) 

cf  Lowland 193  4>>  (Day) 

Meaning     and      refer- 
ences   2702" 

cf  Vale 3045"  (Day) 

Shepher 2703" 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  30(54"  (Com  ler) 
Shepherd 276,3-  (Patch) 

Biblical  references .  .  .  .2703" 

Duties  of 27031' 

Equipment  of 2764" 

Figurative  references.  .2764" 

Jesus  as 2764" 

cf  Sheep 275(5''  (Day) 

cf  Staff 2817'' 

Shephi,  Shepho 2764" 

Shephupham,        Shephu- 

phan 2764" 

cf  Muppim 2094" 

cf  Shuppim 2782" 

Sherah 

cf  Sheerah 2758" 

Sherd 

cf  Potsherd 2423'' 

Sherebiah 27(54''  (Wolf) 

cf  Asebebias  (Apoc)..266b 

cf  Sarabias  (Apoc).  .  .  .2690'' 

Sheresh 2704'' 

Sherezer 

cl'  Sharezer 2750"  (Eiselen) 

Shcrghat,    or   Asshur   or 

Assur 27641'  (Hanks) 

cf  Assyria 290b  (Sayce) 

Excavations  at 27(55" 

First  capital  of  Assyria  2704b 

Monoliths  of 2765" 

Mounds  of  Assur 27641' 

Temple  of  Assur 2705" 

Tombs  of  kings 27(55'' 

Sheriff 2705'' 

Sheshach 27051'  (Wolf) 

cf  Jeremiah 15S71'  (Roberts; 

Slieshai 27(5(5" 

Sheshan 27(56" 

Sheshbazzar 27(5(5"  (R.  I).  Wilson) 

cf    Sanabassar,    Sana- 

bassarus  (Apoc).  .  .  .2081"  (Angus) 
Sheth 

cf  Seth 2743''  (S.  F.  Hunter; 


Shcthar 27(5(5" 

Shcthar-bozenai,Shethar- 

boznai 27(56''  (Wolf) 

cf  Sathrabuzanes 2696'' 

Sheva 27(5(5'' 

cf  Shavsha 275 11'  (Wolf; 

Shew,  Show 27(50''  (Easton) 

Shewbread 2767"  (Caldecott) 

Frankincense  with.  .  .  .27(57'' 

On  journeys 27(57" 

Meaning  of  term 2767:L 

Priestly  regulations.  .  .2767" 

cf  Shewbread,  Table  of  27(57''  (Caldecott) 

Significance 27(57" 

Shewbread,  Table  of .  .  .  .27(57'-  (Caldecott) 

cf  Shewbread 2767"  (Caldecott; 

cf  Tabernacle 2S91"  (Caldecott;   Orr) 

cf  Table 2S9S"  (Easton; 

cf  Temple 29331'  (Caldecott ;   Orr) 

Shibah 2767'' 

cf  Beer-sheba 42 41'  (Masterman; 

cf  Sheba  (place) 2753"  (Masterman; 

Shibboleth 2767'' 

Shibmah  (Sibmah) 

cf  Sebam 2711"  (Ewing) 

Shicron 

cf  Shikkcnjn 27(58" 

Shield 

cf  Armor,  Arms 252h  (Nieol) 

Shiggaion 27G71' 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of. .  .  .2487"  (Sampey) 
Shihon 

cf  Shion 2774" 

Shihor 2768"  (Kyle) 

cf  Gihon 1228''  (Masterman) 

cf  Nile 2145"  (Kyle) 

Shihor-libnath 2708"  (Ewing) 

Shikkeron 2768" 

Shilhi 276S1' 

Shilhim 2768'' 

cf  Shaaraim 2745"  (Masterman) 

Shillem,  Shillemites 270s1' 

cf  Shallum 2747"  (Umbach) 

Shiloah 

cf  Jerusalem 1001'';       1(509''      (Master- 
man; 

cf  Siloam 2791"  (Masterman) 

Shiloh  (person) 2708b  (Orr) 

cf  Prophecy 2459''  (Orelli; 

Shiloh  (place) 270S1'  (Ewing) 

Eai'ly  references 27091' 

cf  Jerusalem 1(509"  (Masterman) 

Sanctuary  in  Ephraim  .  27(59" 

Site  and  ruins 27(59" 

cf  Tabernacle 2891''  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Shilonite 2709'' 

Shilshah 2709'' 

Shimea 27(5',)'' 

cf  Shammah 2749"  (Wolf) 

cf  Shammua 2749'' 

Shimeah.  .  .  .2709'' 


3370 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Shimearn 

cf  Shimeah    27G91' 

Shimeath 27G9b  (Wolf) 

cf  Shomer 277(,)h 

Shimeatlntes 27G9h  (Wolf) 

Shimei 2770a  (Mack) 

cf  Semei .  2717a 

cf  Semeias 2717' 

cf  Semeis  (Apoc) 2717a 

cf  Shainmali 2749"  (Wolf) 

cf  Shcnia  (person) .  .  .  .27f,9b  (Wolf) 

cf  Someis  (Apoc) 2S2(Vl 

Shimeon 27701' 

Shimhi 

cf  Shimei 2770"  (.Mack) 

Shimi,  Shimites 

cf  Shimei 2770"  (Mack) 

Shimma 

cf  Shannnah 27 49:1  (Wolf) 

Shimon 2770!l 

Shimrath 27/0'1 

Shimri 27701'  (I'mbac'li) 

Shimrith 2771a 

cf  Shomer 277',)1' 

Shimron  (person) 2771a 

Shiniron  (pLcc) 277  la  (Ewing) 

Shimron-meron 277 la  (Ewing) 

Shimshai 2771-  (Wolf; 

cf  Rehum 2.">2b  (Stearns) 

cf  Samellius  (Apoc).  .  .2G74" 

Shin,  Sin 2771a 

cf  Alphabet 103''  (Richardson) 

Shinah 2771"  (Wolf) 

cf  Admah 5Gb  (Wright) 

cf  Shemeber 27GOb 

Shinar 2771h  (Pinches) 

cf  Babel 3.-,()a  (Pinches. 

cf  Babel,  Tower  of 3.5.-,''  (Pinches) 

cf  Calneh 54G"  (Pinches) 

Comparison  with  Sem- 


itic 


Condition  and  climate  2773;i 

Districts  of 27721' 

cf  Eden 897''  (Wright) 

Form  of  word 27711' 

Form  of  writing 27731' 

cf  Jonah 17271'  (Sampey) 

cf  Jonah,  Book  of 1728"  (Sampey) 

Land  of  Babylonia..  .  .2771'' 
Primitive  tongue  of.  .  .2772' 
Priority  of  Sumerians.  .2772'' 

Sculptures 2772' 

Sumerian  equivalents. .  2771h 

Syriac  Sen'ar 2772' 

cf  L'r  of  the  Chaldces .  3039"  (Clay) 

Shine 2773b  (Dosker) 

Shion 2774" 

Shiphi 2774' 

Shiphmitc 

cf  Shepham 27G2" 

cf  Siphmoth .  .  .  2S06a 

Shiphrah  .  .  . . 2774a 

cf  Zipporali .  .  .  .  31  .'&  (Kylej 


Shiphtan 2774a 

Shipmaster 

cf  Phoenix 2391a  (Calder) 

cf  Shij)s  and  Boats. .  .  .2774;l  (Nicol) 
Shipmen 

cf  Ships  and  Boats.  .  .  .2774a  (Nicol) 

Ships  and  Boats 2774a  (Nicol) 

In  the  Acts 2770'' 

In  Assyria  and  Baby- 
lonia   277  o1' 

In      Corinthians      and 
other  Books 2777b 

In  Egypt 2775b 

Equipment  of 2777a 

Figurative  use 2777b 

cf  Gallant 1107a 

General  references ....  277fia 

In  the  Gospels 2770* 

cf  Harbour 1337'' 

Hebrews,  among  the.  .  2774h 

Hebrews  and  the  sea.  .2774b 

Measures  in  storm.  .  .  .2777a 

In  NT 277Ga 

In  OTand  Apoc 2774'1 

Paul's  voyages 277Gb 

cf  Pharaoh-necoh 23G()a  (Nicol) 

In  Phoenicia 277.">b 

cf  Plank 2407b 

cf  Red  Sea 2539"  (Wright ) 

cf  Hope 2G23b  (Easton) 

<-f  Sign 27S9»  (Stuart) 

cf  Trade 3003a  (Easton) 

cf  Traffic 30041'  (Raffety) 

Words  used  for 2774a 

Shisha 2777b 

cf  Shavsha 27r>lb  (Wolf) 

Shishak 2777b  (Nicolj 

Inscript  ion  at  Karnak  277Sa 

Invasion  of  Palestine .  .  277,Sa 

cf  Jerusalem 161.~>a  (Masterman) 

cf  Lubim 193  I'1 

cf  Rehoboam 2552a  (Mosiman) 

Relations    with    Jero- 
boam   2777h 

Rise  to  power 27771' 

Shitrai 277S1' 

cf  Sharonite 27r)la 

Shittah  Tree 2778''  (Masterman) 

cf  Shittim  Wood 508b  (Masterman) 

Shittim 2778h  (Ewing) 

Shiza 2778'' 

Shoa 2778b 

Shobab 2779" 

Shobach 2779a 

Shobai 2779a 

Shobal 2779a 

Shobek 2779a 

Shobi 2779a 

Shochoh 2779a 

cf  Socoh 2821a  (Masterman 

Shoe,  Shoe-latchet 2779a  (Easton) 

!   Shoham.  .  .  ,2779b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Shoincr 

cf  Shemer 

cf  Shimcath 

cf  Shimrith 

Shophach 

cf  Shobach 

Shophan 

cf  Atroth-shophan .  .  .  . 

Shore 

cf  Coast 

cf  Haven 

cf  Sand 

Shorten 

Shoshannim  Eduth 

cf  Psalms,  Book  of .  .  . 

cf  Song 

Shoulder 

cf  Sacrifice,  NT 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 

Shoulder-blade 

Shoulder-piece 

Shovel 

Show 

cf  Shew 

Showbread 

cf  Shevvbread 

Showbread,  Table  of 

cf  Shewbread,  Table  of 

Shower 

Shrine 

Shroud 

cf  Burial 

Shrub 

cf  Bush 

Shua,  Shuah 

cf  Bath-shua 

cf  Bildad 

cf  Shuhah 

cf  Shuhite 

Sliual 

Shual,  Land  of 

Shubael 

cf  Shebuel 

Shuhah 

cf  Shua,  Shuah 

Shuham 

Shuhite 

cf  Bildad 

cf  Shua,  Shuah 

Shulammite 

cf  Shunammite 

Shumathites 

Shunammite 

Shunem 

Shuni,  Shunites 

Shupham,  Shuphamites 

cf  Shephupham 

Shuppim 

cf  Muppim 

cf  Shephupham 

Shur 

cf  Migdol 


2779b 

27GOb  (Wolf) 
27G9b  (Wolf) 
2771° 


328" 

2779b  (Day) 
672"  (Day) 
1344b  (Day) 
26S8b  (Day) 
2780" 

2487a  (Sampey) 
2X301'  (Millar) 
2780"  (Luering) 
20")  1"  (Williams) 
2638"  (Reeve) 
2780b 

2780b  (Luering) 
27801'  (Patch) 

2766b  (East on) 
27G7a  (Caldecott) 

27G7b  (Caldecott) 
2781-  (Day) 
2781" 
2781" 

529-  (Eager) 
2781" 

.532"  (Masterman) 
2781" 
416b 

473b  (Gcnung) 
2781" 
278  lb 
2781" 

2781"  (Ewing) 
2781" 
2754b 
2781" 
27S1" 
2781b 
278  lb 

473b  (Genung) 
2781" 
278  lb 

2781b  (Ewing) 
2781b 

,27Slb  (Ewing) 
,2781b  (Ewing) 
2782" 

2764" 
.  2782" 
. 2094" 

2764" 

.2782"  (Conder) 
.2051"  (Conder) 


Shur — continued 

cf    Wanderings   of     Is- 
rael  

Shuruppak 

Shushan 

Citadel,  Hie..  . 

Description    of    Assur- 
bani-apli 

cf  Elam,  Islamites .  .  .  . 

Meaning  of  name 

Monuments  discovered 

Ruins  of 

Shushanchites 

Shushan  Eduf  h 

cf  Psalms,  Boole  of .  .  . 

cf  Song 

Shuthalhites 

cf  Shuthelah 

Sliutlielah,  Shutlielahites 

cf  Genealogy 

Shuttle 

cf  Weaving 
Sia,  Siaha 

cf  Sua  (Apoc) 

Sibbecai,  Sibbechai 

Sibboleth 

cf  Shibboleth 

Sibmah 

cf  Sebam 

Sibraim 

Sibylline  Oracles 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera 
ture 

cf  Messiah 

Sicarii 

cf  Assassins 

Sichem 

cf  Shcchem 

Sick,  Sickness 

Causes  of 

cf  Disease 

Forms  of 

Jesus  and  the 

Terms  used 

Visit  ing  the 

Sickle 

cf  Reaping 

cf  Wine 

Sicyon 

Siddim,  Vale  of 

cf  Arabah 

cf  Dead  Sea 

Geological  changes. .  . 

Location 

cf  Slime,  Slime  Pits.  . 

Traditions  regarding . 

cf  Zeboiim 

Side 

cf  Pamphylia 

Sides 

Sidon  (person ) 


3064"  (Conder; 
305"  (Clay) 
27X2"  (Pinches) 
2782b 


2  187"  (Sampey) 
2S301'  (Millar) 


2711"  (Ewing) 

2783" 

17S"  (,!.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

1611'  (J.  E.  11.  Thomson) 
2042"  (Crichton) 

288"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

2783" 

2755"  (Ewing) 

2783"  ^Macalister) 

2783b 

854"  (Macalister) 

2783b 

2783b 

2783" 

2783b 

27S  1"  (Patch) 

2534"  (Patch) 

3086"  (East on) 

2784"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

2784";  809b  (Wright) 

21  lb  (Wright) 

SOI  '  (Wright; 

2784b 

2784" 

281 7b  (Day) 

27S4b 

3134" 

2785"  (Banks) 

2236b  (Banks) 

2785" 

2785" 


(IEXKRAL  INDEX 


Sidon  (place) 

Disasters  t<> 

Harlxirs  of 

History  of 

Kings  of 

Location 

In  XT 

of  Phoenicia 

of  Tyre 

of  Zarophath 

Sidonians 

Siege 

Assault,  the 

Battering  rains 

Defense1  against 

In   early   Hebrew   his 
tory 

Figurat  ive  references . 

In  Hebrew  monarchy. 

Horrors  of 

Laws  regarding 

Mounds        and        ap 
proaches 

In  XT 

Operations  of 

In  the  prophets 

Raising  the  siege .... 

of  Slave,  Shivery .... 
Sieve,  Sift 

of  Agriculture 

of  Threshing 

Siglos 

of  Daric 

Sign     . 

of  Dioscuri 

of  Iminanuel 

of  Miracle 

of  Ships  and  Boats. .  . 

of  Token 

Signet 

of  Ring 

of  Seal 

Signs  of  the  Heavens 

of  Astronomy 

Signs,  Numerical 

of  Number 

Sihon 

Sihor 

of  Shihor 

Sihor-libnath 

of  Shihor-libnath .  .  .  . 
Silas 

Companion    of    Barna 
has 

Journeys  with  Paul.  . 

Movements  of 

NT  references  to.  ... 

Silence 

Silk,  Silkworm 

cf  Linen 

cf  Weaving 

Silk .  . 


2785"  (Porter) 

2785b 

2785" 

27851' 

27851' 

2785" 

2786" 

2386"  (Porter) 

3031"  (Porter) 

31321'  (Kwingi 

2786" 

2786"  (Nicol) 

2787b 

127S7" 

2787b 

2786" 
2789° 
2786b 
2788b 
2786b 

2787" 
2789" 
2786b 
2786b 
2788" 
281;-)'1  (Raffety) 

75b  (Patch) 

29751'  (Patch) 

2789" 

7SS" 

2789"  (St  uart > 

851"  (Maunder) 

11571'  (A.  W.  Kvansi 

20621'  (Waco) 

2777"  (Nicol) 

2991"  (Kaston) 

2594"  (Crannell) 
27()8b  (Ki  I  wards; 

3001'  (Maunder) 

2157"  (Smith) 
2790" 


2768"  (Fwing) 
2790"  (Kerr) 

12790" 

2790" 

2790" 

2790'" 

27901' 

2790h  (Day) 

1894"  (K  D.  Isaacs) 

3077"  (Patch) 

2791a 


Siloam,    Siloah,     Shelah, 

Shiloali 2791"  (Masterman) 

Aqueduct  .  .  .  .2791'' 

of  (lexer 1224"  (Masterman) 

of  C-ihon 12281'  (Masterman) 

Inscription 27921' 

of  Jerusalem 1G061'  (Masterman) 

of  Jerusalem  Springs.  .  15971'  (Masterman) 

of  Kidron,  The  Brook.  1798"  (Masterman) 

of  King's  C.arden 1808"  (Masterman) 

Modern  Silwan 2791'1 

Pool  of 2792" 

Second  pool 2792b 

of  Sent 2721"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Shelah 2758>> 

Siloam  Inscription 

cf  Jerusalem 1602"  (Masterman) 

Siloam,  Tower  in 

of  Jerusalem 1G02"  (Masterman) 

of  Siloam 2791"  (Masterman) 

Silvanus 2792b 

of  Silas 2790"  (Kerr) 

Silver 27921'  (Patch) 

Silverling 2793" 

cf  Piece  of  Silver 2395"  (Porter) 

Silversmith 2793" 

Simalcue 

cf  Imalcue 1456"  (  Hutchison) 

Simeon  (general) 2794"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Simeon  (Niger) 2794b 

of  Symeon 2S771' 

Simeon     (patriarch     and 

tribe) 2793"  (Masterman) 

Absorbed  in  Judah. .  .  ,2793b 

Fancied      insoriptional 
references 2794" 

cf  (ledor 1182"  (Kwing) 

cf  Leah I861b  (Baur) 

Meunim 2793" 

Mixed      character      of 
tribe 2793b 

Mt.  Seir 2794" 

OT  references 27931' 

Son  of  Jacob 2793" 

Territory  of 2794a 

Simeonites 

cf    Simeon     (patriarch 

and  tribe) 2793"  (Masterman) 

Similitude 279  l'> 

Simon  (Apoc) 2794h  (Angus) 

of  Maceabaeus 1946"  (Hutchison) 

cf  Thassi 2965" 

Simon  the  Canaanite,  or 

Cananaean,  or  Zealot  .  .2797''  (Kerr) 

of   James,    Son   of   Al- 

phaeus 1561"  (Kerr) 

cf  Nathanael 2121"  (Kerr) 

cf  Thaddacus 2964"  (Kerr) 

cf  Zealot,  Zealots 3133b  (Heidel) 

Simon  (general) 2795a  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

of  Brethren  of  the  Lord  518b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Cvrenian .  .  .  .  773b 


OEXERAL  INDEX 


Simon  (general) — continued 

cf  Judas  Isoariot 17G5b  (Kerr) 

cf  Nathanael 2121'  (Korr) 

cf  Peter  (Simon) 23  18h  (Cray) 

cf  Simeon  (general)  .  .  .2791"  (S.  F.  Hunter i 
Simon  the  Muccabee.  .  .  .285"  (Dosker) 

cf  Maccabaeus    .         .  .  1916"  (Hutchison) 
Simon  Magus 279.")1'  (Rutherfunl  i 

Contact  with  the  apos- 
tles   .279f>h 

Death  of 2797" 

Early  Christian  tradi- 
tions  2796" 

Followers  of 2797" 

cf  Cnosticism 1240"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf      Literature,      Sub- 

apos 1896b  (Cowan) 

Magicians  in  XT 2790" 

Mentioned  as  sorcerer  279f>h 

cf  Peter,  First  Epistle 

of 2351b(Moorohoad) 

cf  Peter,  Second  Epistle 

of 2355"  (Moorehead) 

cf  Philip,  the  Evangel- 
ist   2368>>  (S.  F.  Hunt  en 

Sources  of  the  stories. .  27901' 

Story    of    Simon    and 

Helena 279(ih 

Simon  Peter 23481'  (Cray) 

Simon,  the  Tanner 

cf  Tanner 2908b  (Patch) 

Simple 2798"  (McPheeters) 

Simplicity 2798"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Simri 

cf  Shimri 2770b  (Fmbach) 

Sin 279X1'  (McConnell) 

cf  Adam  in  the  OT.  .  .49b  (Coming) 

As  disobedience 2798b 

Environment 2SOOb 

cf  Ethics 1013"  (Alexander) 

cf  Ethics  of  Jesus 102(5"  (Stalker) 

Fall,  story  of 279S1' 

Forgiveness 2801b 

Freedom  of  man 2799" 

cf  Guilt 1309"  (Rail) 

Heredity 2SOOb 

cf  Heredity 1376"  (Easton) 

Inner  law,  the 27991' 

cf   Johannine   The- 
ology  1701b  (Law) 

Life  in  Christ 2801" 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle.  .22G4b  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Pauline  Theology..  .2289"  (Easton) 

Positive  force,  a 2800" 

Prophetic  teachings.  .  .2799b 

Redemption 2801:l 

cf  Redemption 2541"  (McConnell) 

Repentance 280  lb 

cf  Sanctifi cation 2G83b  (Rail) 

cf  Sinner 2SO(J"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

Teachings  of  Paul ....  2799b 

cf  Tradition 3004"  (Williams) 


Sin  — continued 

Transgression     against 

light .  .2799" 

cf  Truth.                          .302.7-  (Carver) 
cf  Wickedness 3083'-  (Dungan) 

Sin  (deity).  .  .371"  (Rogers) 

Sin  (place).  .  .  .2802"  (Kyle) 

Sin     against,     the      Holy 
Chost  (Spirit) 
cf  Blasphemy    .  .  .485''  (  Roes) 

Sin,  Man  of 197.7'  (Orr) 

Sin  Money 

cf  Sacrifice  in  the  OT.  2038"  (Koovo) 

Sin  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice  in  the  XT.  2(551"  (Williams) 
cf  Sacrifice  in  the  OT.  2(538"  (Hoove) 

Sin,  Shin 2771" 

Sin,  Wilderness  of 

cf    Wanderings    of    Is- 
rael  3004"  (Condor) 

Sina 2802" 

cf  Sinai 2802'-  (Condor) 

Sinai 2S021'  (Condor) 

JebelMusa 2803" 

Location  of lf)16"  (Orelli) 

Modern  views 2804" 

cf  Moses 2087"  (Kyle) 

Name 28021' 

OT  references 28021' 

Patristic  views 2804" 

Peaks  of  Jebel  Musa.  .2803'' 

Traditional  site 28021' 

cf    Wanderings   of    Is- 
rael  30G4"  (Condor) 

Sincere,  Sincerity 2804b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Sinew 2804b  (Luering) 

cf  Hip 1394b 

Singers,  Singing 2804b  (Millar) 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

cf  Praise 2429"  (Lambert) 

cf  Priests  and  Lovites.244Gb  (Wiener) 

cf  Song 2S30b  (Millar) 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caklecott ;  ( )rr) 

Single  Eye 2805"  (Easton) 

Singular 2805" 

Sinim,  Land  of 2805b  (Ewing) 

Sinites 2805b 

Sinlessness 2805b  (Dunelm) 

Christ  sinless 2805b 

cf  Flesh 1118b  (Luering) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1G301'  (Orr) 

Saints  not  sinless 280G" 

cf  Spirit 2841b  (Marais) 

Sinner 280G"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Sin 2798b  (McConnell) 

Sion 280(5" 

cf  Hermon 1378"  (Ewing) 

cf  Zion 3150b  (Masterman) 

Siphmoth 2806" 

Sippai 

cf  Saph 20901' 

Sir..  ..2806" 


3)574 


GENERAL  IXDEX 


Sirach,  The  Alphabet  of  .2812"  (T.  W.  Davios) 
Sirach,  Hook  of.  or  The 

Wisdom   of  Jesus,  the 

Sou  of  Sirach 2806"'  (T.  W .  Da  vies 

Author 2S()9b 

Cauonieity 2807" 

Composed  in  Hebrew  .  .  2S11'1 

Contents 2807" 

Date 2810" 

Eschatology  of 28081' 

Literary  form 2S09:1 

Maxims 2809' 

Moral  teachings  of. .  .  .2SOS1' 

Xame 2S001' 

Original  languages .  .  .  .2811" 

Teachings  of 28071' 

Teachings  on  manners  2809" 

I  nity  and  integrity.  .  .2S091' 

Versions 2S11'1 

\'ie\v  of  religion       .       .  2M)7b 

cf  Wisdom.  .  .  .3089"  (Easton) 

cf  Wisdom  of  Solomon  3092-  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Sirah,  Well  of 2S121' 

Sirion 2S121' 

cf  Hermon 1378"  (Ewing) 

Sisamai 

cf  Sismai 2813" 

Sisera 2S121'  (Schenk) 

cf  Deborah 8L3b  (Margolis) 

cf  Jael 15571'  (Schenk) 

cf  Palestine 22131'  (Cornier) 

cf  Serar  (Apoc) 27321' 

Sisinnes 2813" 

cf  Tattenai 29171'  (Umbachj 

Sismai...  .  .2813" 

Sister 2813"  (Pollard) 

cf  Kelat  ionships,  Fam- 
ily..   255.1"     (X.     and     E.     D. 

Isaacs) 
Sister's  Son 2813" 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily  255-1"     (X.     and     E.     D. 

Isaacs) 

Sith 2813" 

Sithri 2813' 

Sitnah 2813" 

cf  Rehoboth 2552"  (Masterman) 

Sitting 2S13b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Si  van 2S13b 

cf  Calendar 5-llh  (Porter) 

Sixty 2S13b 

cf  Number 2157:i  (Smith) 

Skill,  Skilful 2S13b  (N.  Isaacs; 

Skin 28131'  (Lucring) 

For  clothing  and  shoos.  2814" 

Figurative  use 2814" 

Literal  use 2814" 

cf  Sealskin 2709b 

Skirt 2814b 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

cf  Train  (noun) 3005" 


Skull 2814b 

cf  Golgotha 1275a  (Masterman) 

Sky 2814b  (Day) 

cf  Heavens 1352b  (Orr) 

Slander.  .  .  2814b  (Edwards) 

cf  Crimes 745b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Tale 2904"  (T.  Lewis) 

Slaughter    of    the    Inno- 
cents  1471"  (Sweet) 

Slaughter,  Valley  of 2815" 

cf  Ilinnom,  Valley  of.  .  1393b  (Masterman) 

cf  Jerusalem 1599"  (Masterman) 

Slave,  Slavery 2S15"  (Raffety) 

Acquisition 2S15a 

cf  Egypt 906"  (Petrie) 

Freedom  of  slaves.  .  .  .  2815b 

cf  Israel,  History  of  the 

Peoplo loll1'  (Orelli) 

cf  Labor 18191'  (Orr) 

cf  Manservant 19S3b 

NT  conception 2817" 

cf  Pharaoh 2359"  (Kyle) 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily  255Gb     (X.     and     E. 

Isaacs) 

Rights  of  masters 2S16b 

Rights  of  slaves 2S16b 

cf  Servant 27381'  (McGlothlin) 

cf  Siege 2786"  (Nicol) 

Slavonic  Versions 3048"  (Easton) 

Slaying 2817" 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Ilirsch) 

Sleep 2817" 

cf  Dream,  Dreamer   .    874"  (Clippinger) 

Sleep,  Deep 281 7b  (Easton) 

Sleeves 

cf  Dress 875b  (Eager) 

Sleight 2817b 

Slime,  Slime  Pits 2817b  (Day) 

cf  Cities  of  the  Plain.  .660"  (Wright) 

cf  Pitch 2401b  (Easton) 

cf  Siddim,  Vale  of  ...  .2784"  (Wright) 
Sling 

cf  Armor,  Arms 251"  (Nicol) 

Slip 2817b 

Slopes 

cf  Ashdoth-pisgah ....  268" 

Slow 2818" 

Sluggard 2S18a 

Sluice 2818" 

Smell 2818"  (Luering) 

Smith 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

cf  Tools 2998b  (Easton) 

cf  Tubal-cain 3027b  (Wolf) 

Smiting  by  the  Sun 

cf  Sun,  Smiting  by. .  .  .2870b  (Macalister) 

Smoke ...  .281Sb 

Smyrna 2818b  (Banks) 

Ancient 2818b 

cf  Angels  of  the  Seven 

Churches..  ..  135b  (Banks) 


D. 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Smyrna — continued 

History 

Modern 

Snail 

cf  Lizard .  . 


.2S18b 
.2819a 

.2X19*  (Day) 
.  190G"  (Day) 


cf  Sand-lizard .  .  .2688b 

Snare 2X19"  (Stratton-Porter) 

cf  Fowler 1 1431'  (Stratton-Porten 

cf  Gin 12:51''  (Strait  on-Port  en 

cf  Trap.  .  3007"  (Strat  ton-Porter  • 

Sneeze 2X191' 

cf  Neesing 2130"  (Easton) 

Snow 2S191'  (Joy) 

Snuffers,  Smil'fdishes.  .  .  .2X20"  (Caldecot.t) 

cf  Tongs 2994" 

So 2X2!)"  (Xicol) 

Soap 2S2!)1'  (Patch) 

cf  Wash 3072b  (Easton) 

Sober,    Sobriety,    Sober- 

ness 2S201'  •;  Jacobs) 

cf  Temperance,  Tem- 
perate  29291'  (Jacobs) 

Soclio 2S2;)1- 

cf  Socoh 2X21"  (Masterman) 

Socket 2821"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Tenon 2947"  (Caldecott) 

Socoh,     Soco,     Shoehoh, 

Shoco,  Shocho 2X21"  (Masterman) 

Socrates 1017"  (Alexander) 

Sod,  Sodden 

cf  Seethe 2713" 

Soda 

cf  Nitre 21.1:5-  (Patch) 

Sodering 2X21" 

Sodi 2X21" 

Sodom 2X2 11'  (Wright) 

cf  Arabah 211'>  (Wright) 

cf  Cities  of  the  Plain.  .GtiO"  (Wright) 

cf  Dead  Sea X01"  (Wright) 

And  Gomorrah 

Geological  theory  of 

destruction  of.  .  .  .230a  (Kyle) 

cf  Lot 1930b  (Boyd) 

cf  Siddiin,  Vale  of .  .  .  .2784"  (Wright) 
Sodom,  Vine  of 2S21b  (Masterman) 

cf  Vine 3050h  (Masterman) 

Sodomite 2X211'  (Ewing) 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

Sodomitish  Sea 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

Sodomy 

cf  Crimes 745b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Sodom 2S21b  (Wright) 

Sojourner 2X2  lh 

cf  Stranger  and  So- 
journer (in  NT  and 
OT)  .  .2805"  (Wiener);  2800" 

(Easton) 
Soldering 

cf  Sodering 2821" 

Soldier 

cf  Armor,  Arms 2f>l"  (Xicol) 


Solemn  Assembly  (Meet- 
ing) 

cf  Congregation 700b  (Wiener) 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .  1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs; 

cf  Solemn,  Solemnity.  .2S21b  (Easton) 
Solemn,  Solemnity 2X2  lb  (Easton) 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .  1  103"  (10.  D.  Isaacs) 

<;f  Sound 2838"  (Easton) 

Solomon 2X22"  (Weir;;  25(1"  (Xicol) 

Alliances  of 2S231' 

Building  operations  .  .  . 2824:1 

Buildings  of 10141'  (Masterman) 

Career  of 2X24" 

Character  of 2X24" 

And  Chemosh  worship  00 lb  (Xicol) 

Domestic  troubles .  .  .  .  2823b 

Early  career 2S221' 

cf  Jerusalem 1595b  (Masterman) 

cf  Millo 2055"  (Masterman  i 

Name  and  meaning .  .  .  2S22:l 

cf  Nethinim 2139b  (Lees) 

Odes  of 174b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

Officers  of 282.5" 

Policy  of 2823" 

Reign  of 2823" 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Xicol) 

Sources 2S221' 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Temple  and  palace  of.  234b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Text  of  the  OT 2957b  (Weir) 

cf  Trade 3003"  (Easton) 

Trade  and  commerce .  .  2S241' 

Vision  of 2823" 

Wisdom  and  learning  of  28241' 

Wives  of 2825" 

Solomon,  Odes  of 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture  161b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Johannine  Theology  1096b  (Law) 

Solomon,  Pools  of 2419b  (Day) 

Solomon,  Psalms  (Psalter) 

of lGlb  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Solomon,  Song  of 

cf  Song  of  Songs 2831"  (Sampey  i 

Solomon,  Wisdom  of 3092"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Solomon's  Porch 242 lb  (Caldecott) 

Solomon's  Servants 2S25b  (Mack) 

Levitcs  or  not  ? 2S25b 

cf  Nethinim 2139b  (Lees) 

Number  and  duties.  .  .2S25b 

Temple  servants 2825b 

Solyma 

cf  Jerusalem 159Gb  (Masterman) 

Someis  (Apoc) 2826" 

cf  Shiinei 2770"  (Mack) 

Sometime 2826" 

Son,  Sons 282G"  (Betteridge) 

cf  Bar  (prefix) 401b 

cf  Ben  (prefix) 433b  (Breslich) 

cf  Heredity 1376"  (Easton) 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily .  .  .  .  2554"  (N.  and  E.  D.  Isaacs  > 


3376 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Son  of  God,  The 2826b  (Stalker) 

Apostolic  dc  ,:trine.  .  .  .2828" 

Applied  to  Christ 2827" 

In  Fourth  Gospel 2828'- 

Messianic  meaning..  .  .2827" 

In  OT 28261' 

cf  Only  Begotten 2 KM)"  (Rees) 

Particular  texts 2S271' 

Use  by  Jesus 2827'' 

Use  of  title .  .2826'' 

Son-in-Law 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily  2554"     (X.     and     E. 

Isaacs) 
Son  of  Man,  The 2828b  (Stalker) 

Aramaic  meaning 2830'1 

In  Daniel 28291' 

Ext  ra-canonical  lit  era- 
lure 2830" 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1637"  «  >rri 

Jesus'    Messianic    con- 
sciousness   2830 ' 

cf  Messiah 2043"  (Crichton) 

Messianic  idea 28291' 

Source  of  title 2829" 

Usage  in  OT 2820" 

Use    and    meaning    in 
XT 2829" 

Why  Jesus  used  title.  .2830' 

cf  Zoroastrianism 31f>7"  (Easton) 

Song 28301'  (Millar; 

cf  Hind  of  the  Morn- 
ing  1393"  (M.  ().  Evans) 

cf  Hymn 144;")"  (Millar  i 

cf  Jonath  Elem  Reho- 
kim 1730" 

cf  Singers,  Singing.  .  .  .2804''  (Millar) 

cf  Song  of  Songs 2831"  (Sampey; 

cf  Spiritual  Songs 2845a  (Pratt) 

Song  of  Songs 2831"  iSampey) 

Allegorical    interpreta- 
tion   2832" 

Authorship  and  date.  .2831'' 

Canonicity 2831a 

Ewald's  view 2833" 

Hints  and  suggestions .  2833b 

History  of   interpreta- 
tion  2S31b 

Literal  interpretation.  .2832'' 

cf  Palestine 22 181'  (Conder) 

cf  Song 28301'  (Millar) 

Text 283  lb 

Typical  interpretation  28321' 

Wedding  songs 2833" 

Song  of  the  Three  Chil- 
dren   2834"  (T.  W.  Daviesj 

Author  and  date 28341' 

cf  Bel  and  the  Dragon. 428"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Canonicity    and    con- 
tents  2834" 

Name 2834a 

Original  language 2835a 


D 


Song  of  the  Three  Children — continual 

cf  Shadrach 2746"  (II.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Son,  Sons 2826"  (Be(teridge) 

Songs  of  Degrees 8191'  (Sainpey) 

cf  Dial  of  Aha/ 8421'  (Maunder) 

Sons  of  God  (XT) 2835''  (W.  Evans) 

Doctrine  of 2835'' 

Terms .  .  .  . 2835'' 


.2835"  (Crichton) 

.  2835'' 

.  143"  (Wright) 

.608"  (Reesj 

.2835" 

(Orr) 

(Reeve) 

;  2559''  (Porter) 


Sons  of  God  (OT) .  .  . 

Angels 

cf  Antediluvians. .  . 

cf  Children  of  God. 

In  Genesis  6  2-4  .  . 

cf  Giants 1224"' 

cf  Gods 1270'' 

Job  and  Psalms 2835" 

cf  Ilephaim 2835" 

Term 2835" 

Sons  of  Korah 1S171'  (Beecher) 

Sons  of  Solomon's  Serv- 
ants 

cf  Priests  and  Levites.  2446''  (Wiener) 
Soothsayers 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Divination 860"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Soothsaying,  Met  hods  of  296" 
Sop ...  2836" 

cf  Morsel 2083" 

Sopater 2836" 

cf  Pyrrhus 2511'' 

cf  Sosipater 283 

Sope 

cf  Soap 28201'  (Patch) 

Sophereth 2836" 

Sophists 1017 

Sophonias  (Apoc) 2836a 

Sorcerer,  Sorcery 2836" 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Divination 860"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Magic 1963"  (T.  \V.  Davies; 

cf  Resurrection 2562b  (Easton) 

cf  Witchcraft 3097"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Zoroastrianism 3157"  (Easton) 

Sore 2836"  (Macalister) 

Sorek,  Valley  of 2836b  (Masterman) 

Sorrel 2836b 

cf  Colors 674''  (Patch) 

Sorrow 2836''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Sortilege 3311'  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Sosipater 2837a  (S.  V.  Hunter) 

cf  Sopater 2836" 

Sosthenes 2837" 

Sostratus 2837a  (Angus) 

Sotai 2837" 

Sottish 2837" 

Soul 2837a  (Marais) 

XT  meanings 2837b 

OT  meanings 2837a 

cf  Psychology 2496b  (Marais) 

cf  Resurrection 2565a  (Easton) 

Soul  and  spirit 2838a 


(S.  F.  Hunter) 


(Alexander) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3377 


Soul — continual 

cf  Spirit 2X4  lb  (Marnisj 

Survival  of 1  4GI ' 

Sound.  .  .  .2X3X"  (East on) 

cf  Bath  Kol  .  415>>  (Van  Pelt  i 

cf  Solemn,  Solemnity.  .2821b  (Easton; 
Soundings 

cf  Shi]>s  and  Boats..  .  .2771'  (Nicob 

Sour 2X3X" 

South 2X3X"  (Day) 

cf  Natural  Features   .  .2122"  (Day) 
South,  Chambers  of  the.  2X3Xb 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder; 

South,  Queen  of  the 

cf  Queen  of  Sheba.  .  .  .2514'-  (Roberts) 
South  Rainoth 

cf  Ramoth 2529" 

Southeast 

cf  Northeast 2 1.').")1'  (Day) 

Sow 

cf  Swine 2X751'  (Day) 

Sower,  Sowing 

cf  Agriculture 75b  (Patch) 

Spain 2S3Sb 

cf  Paul,  the  Apostle  .  .2204''  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Tarshish 2911" 

Span 2S3Sb 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079"  (Porter) 

Spark 

cf  Leviathan lSG8b  (Day)' 

Sparrow 2S3S1'  (St rat  ton-Porter) 

Biblical  references ....  2X39" 

Description 2X3Xb 

cf  Food 1124"  (Eager, 

Sparta,  Spartans 2X39b  (Orr) 

cf  Arius 242a 

cf  Asmoneans 2X3a  (Doskcr) 

cf  Lacedaemonians. .  .  .  lX19b  (Hutchison) 

cf  Maccabaeus 1946"  (Hutchison) 

Speaking  Evil 74X"  (Hirsch) 

cf  Evil-speaking 1043"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Slander 2X14b  (Edwards) 

Spear,  Spearmen 

cf  Armor,  Arms 252"  (Nicol) 

Specially 2X39b  (Clippinger) 

Speckled 2X391' 

cf  Colors G74b  (Patch) 

cf  Hyena 1443b  (Day) 

Spectacle 2S39b 

Speech 2X39b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Logos 191  lb  (Alexander) 

cf  Word 3105"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Spelt 2X40";  1122"  (Eager) 

Spice,  Spices 2X40"  (Masterman) 

cf  Burial 529"  (Eager) 

cf  Myrrh 2102b  (Masterman) 

cf  Perfume 2321b  (Patch) 

cf  Tragacanth 3005a 

cf  Wine 30X6"  (Easton) 

Spider 2X40b  (Day) 

cf  Gecko.  .  .  .HXla 


Spider  -r/inlinin /! 
cf  Insects. . 
cf  Li/a  nl 
Spies 

cf  Joshuii,  S (f  Nun    I  7  1  l:i  (( ieden; 

Spikenard.  .  .2X40'-  (  Masternum  i 

Spindle 

cf  Spinning.  .  ...  .2X11"  (Patch) 

Spinning.  .  .  .2X41"  (Patch 

cf  Distaff.  ...  .    .S59b 

Spirit  .  .  2X11'-  (Marais 

cf  Conscience 701b  (Stalker; 

cf  Flesh 11  IS1'  (Luering) 

cf  Ghost.  .  ...  122  I1'  (W.  L.  Walk. 

cf  Holy  Spirit 1  tOG>  (Mullins) 

Human  and  divine..  .  .2X12' 

()T  applications 2X42" 

Primary  and  primitive 

senses 2X411' 

cf  Psychology 249ti'';  24971'  (Man 

cf  Resurrection 2505"  (East on) 

Shades  of  meaning. .  .  .  2X  1 11' 

cf  Sinlessness 2X05b  (Dunelin ; 

cf  Soul 2X37"  (Marais) 

cf  Spiritual 2X42b  (Pratt) 

cf  Substance 2X6X"  (W.  L.  Walk< 

Spirit  of  Divinat  ion 

cf  Divination.  .  .SGO"  (T.  W.  Davies 

Spirit,  Evil 

cf  Demon,  Demoniac. .  X27b  (Sweet) 

cf  Satan 2G93b  (Sweet ) 

Spirit,  Familiar 1094"  (Pollard) 

cf  Divination  .  .  .  .XGO"  (T.  W.  Davies 

cf  Python 251  lb  (Easton) 

Spirit  of  God 

cf  God 1253b  (Rees) 

Spirit,  Holy HOG"  (Mullins) 

Spirit,  Unclean  (or  Evil) 

cf  Demon,  Demoniac.  .X27h  (Sweet) 
Spirits,  Discerningsof.  .  .X511'  (Fortune) 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts 2X43"  (Lambert) 

Spirit  sin  Prison 245G'1  (Orr) 

cf  Hades 13151'  (Vos) 

Spiritual 2X42b  (Pratt) 

cf  Man,  Natural 1974"  (Webb) 

cf  Spirit 2X4 lb  (Marais) 

cf  Spiritual  Man 2X44b 

cf  Spirituality 2X451'  (Pratt) 

Spiritual  Blessing 2X43" 

Spiritual  Body 2X43" 

Spiritual  Drink 2X43" 

cf  Rock 259G"  (Day) 

cf  Spiritual  Rock 2X45"  (Pratt) 

Spiritual  Gifts 2X43"  (Lambert) 

cf  Apostle 202b  (Lambert) 

Connected    with    min- 
istry  2X431' 

Connected  with  practi- 
cal service 2X44" 

cf       Discerninga       of 

Spirits X511'  (Fortune) 

cf  Healing,  Gifts  of .  .  .  1349b  (Lambert) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Spiritual  Gifts  —  continued 

cf  Helps.  ...  .  L374"  (Doskcr) 

cf      1  jterat  urc,       Sub- 


Spurious  Acts,  Epistles,  Gospels — continued 
cf  Apocryphal  Epistles  194b  (J.  M.  Wilson) 
cf  Apocryphal  Gospels  195"  (Hutchison) 


npos.  . 

cf  Salvation.  , 

cf      Teach,      Teacher, 
Teaching 

Term 

Tongues 

cf  Tongues,  (lift  of 
Spiritual  House 
Spirituality 

cf  Spiritual  Man 
Spiritually.. 

cf  Spiritual 
Spiritual  Man  ..........  2S44 

cf  Man,  New 

cf  Spiritual 

cf  Spirituality 
Spiritual  Meat 
Spiritual  Rock 

cf  Spiritual  Drink 
Spiritual  Sacrifice" 
Spiritual  Songs.  .  . 

cf  Song.  . 


189(>h  (Cowan) 
2<iC>9"  (East  on  i 

2021  ''  (DeMent; 
2843" 

2844" 

299.->'>  (Easton) 

2S441- 

(Pratn 


(Pratt) 
284  I1'  (Pratt) 
2845-  (Pratt) 
2843° 

284.")"  (Pratt) 
281.~>"  (Pratt 
28301'  (Millar) 
Spiritual  Things  ........  284r>b  (Pratt) 

Spit,  Spittle  .......  2840"  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Face.  .  ......  108f>h  (Luering; 

Spoil 

cf  Booty  ...........  r,03''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Prey.  .  ...  .2139"  tAV-  L.  Walker; 

cf  War  ..............  301  >9b  (Nicol) 

Spoiler  ...............  28  U>" 

Spoke 

cf  Wheel  ............  30S21-  (Boston) 

Sponge  ...........  2S4I1"  (Day) 

Spoon  ................  2S4t>" 

Sports 

cf  Games  ..........  1K.S1'  (Smith  , 

Spot,  Spotted  ..........  281(>b  (Macalister) 

cf  Blemish  ...........  18lib  (Luering 

cf  Freckled  ..........  Hi:>" 

cf  Leopard  ...........  ISO!)1'  (Day) 

cf  Leprosy  ...........  ISO?"  (Ma.-alister 

cf  Tetter  ............  29f>0" 

Spous(>  ......  .  ..284Gb 

cf  Espousal  ........  9971' 

cf  Marriage  ........  1990l>  (Eager 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 

ilv  ........  .  .  .  2554"  (N.  and  E.  I).  I 

Spread,  Spreading  .  .  284Gb 

Spring 

cf  Fountain  ..........  1141b  (Day 

cf  Water 

cf  Well 
Sprinkle,  Sprinkling 

cf  Heifer,  Red 

Purification 

Words  used 
Spurious    Acts,    Ejiistles, 

Gospels 

cf  Apocryphal  Acts.  .  .  183b  (A.  F.  Findlay 


cf  Espy 

Stachys 

2847b 

Stack 

28471' 

Stacte    .            

2847b 

cf  Myrrh  .  . 
cf  Spice,  Spices.     . 
Staff  
cf  Scept  re  
cf  Shepherd  
Stair 
cf  House  .  . 
Stake                        

2102b  (Masterman) 
2840"  (Masterman) 
2S47b 
270  11'  (N.  Isaacs) 
2703"  (Patch) 

143  I1'  (A.C.  Dickie) 
2847b 

cf  Pin.  .  .  . 
Stalk  
Stall                          

239!)"  (N.  Isaacs) 
2847b 
2S171'  (Patch) 

Stammerer  ... 

Standard-bearer 
cf  Banner  
,.f  War                 

2848" 

384"  (Eager) 
30091'  (Nicol) 

Standards 
cf   Vstronomv 

30()b  (Maunder) 

cf  Banner                     •  • 

384"  (Eager  i 

,.f  \Yar                

3()G9b  (Nicolj 

Standing 
cf   Vttitudes 

329"  (,W.  W.  Davies) 

Star,  Stars 
cf   \.st  ronomv               .  . 

3001'  (Maunder; 

Star  of  Bethleliem 
cf  Star  of  the  Magi.  . 

Star  in  the  East 
cf  Magi  

2848"  (Maunder) 
1902"  (Tisdall) 

cf  Star  (jf  the  Magi  .  . 
Stargazera 

cf  Astrology  
^tar  of  the  Magi         .  .  . 

2848"  (Maunder) 

297h  (Maunder) 
2818"  (Maunder; 

Balaam's  prophecy.  .  . 
Herod's  inquiry  
Lesson  of  narrat  ive  .  . 
Magi   the           

2848'1 
2848" 
2849b 
2848" 

Not  astrological  lore. 
Not  a  conjunction  .  .  . 
Not  a  constellat  ion.    . 
Two  facts  

2848b 

2819" 
2849" 

2848b 

Well  of  Bethlehem..  . 
Star  of  Wormwood 
cf  Wormwood,  The  Sta 

Stars,  Courses  of 
cf  Astronomy  
Stars,  Falling;    Morning 
Wandering 
cf  Astronomy  
Stars,  Seven 
cf  \stronom  v 

2849" 
•31  10"  (Orr) 
3001'  (Maunder) 

30()h  (Maunder) 
.300b  (Maunder) 

Stately                 

.  2850" 

Stater           

.  2850" 

cf  Money  
cf  Shekel  .  . 

.2076"  (Porter; 
.2758"  (Porter; 

GENERAL  INDKX 


Stature  .....  .  .  .2850-  (Easton; 

cf  Cubit  ..............  765"  (Porter) 

Staves  ................  2850"  (Caldecott  ) 

cf  Altar  ...........  .  .  106b  (Wiener) 

cf  Rod  ..............  2596b  (Orr) 


cf  Sceptre.  . 

cf  Staff.. 
Stay 

Slead,  Steads 
Stealing 

cf  Grimes.  .  . 

cf  Punisliineuls 

cf  Thief 
Stedfastness 
Steel 


.2701''  (N.  Isaacs) 
.2847'' 

2850-  (Easton) 

28501' 

.748"  (Hirscli) 
2.10  lb  (Hirscli) 
2972"  (Easton) 
2850'' 
2850b 


(M'Caig) 


.  2S.~>2'' 

2851" 
.2S.">1'' 

28531'  (Reeve; 

2030-  (R.  I).  Wilson. 


cf  Brass  .............  ."ill"  (Patch) 

Stephanas  .............  2950>>  (Press) 

Stephen  ...............  2Xr)()l>  (Press) 

Character  and  acl  ivity  2857" 

Defense  .............  2852- 

cf  Law  in  XT  ........  IS  1 

Martyrdom  ..........  2853" 

Personal  antecedents  .  .  2851- 

Speech  of  Stephen. 

Teaching 

Trial  in  Jerusalem  . 
Steward 

cf  Melzar 

XT  usage  ...........  2853b 

OT  usage  ............  2853" 

Stewpan 

cf  Pan  ..............  2237"  (Betteridge) 

Stiff-necked  ............  2854"  (A.  W.  Evans; 

Still  ..................  2854"  (Easton) 

Sting  .................  2S54b  (Jacobs  i 

Stir,  Stir  Up  ...........  285  I'1 

Stock  .................  2854'' 

cf  Punishments  .......  2504'-  (Hirscli  < 

Stoicism  .....  .  .  101S1'  (Alexander; 

cf     Maccabees,     B;>oks 

of.  ...  .  .1955"  (T.  W.  Davies 

Stoics  .................  2854b  (Rees) 

cf  Brotherly  Kindness  525b  (Rees) 

cf  Epicureans  ........  964a  (Rees) 

Ethical  teaching  ......  2Soo;l 

cf  Logos  ............  1912h  (Alexanderj 

Metaphysics  and   reli- 
gion ..............  2Soo'1 

Origin     and     propaga- 
t  ion  ..............  2So4b 

cf  Philosophy  ........  23S3-  (Rc>es) 

Relation  to  Christian- 
ity ................  28oob 

cf  Roman  Empire  and 

Christianity  ........  2600b  (Angus) 

Sensationalist      episto- 
mology  ...........  2S"),vi 

Stoics  and  Epicureans   .  .  101S-1  (Alexander 
Stomach  ..............  285ob 

Stomacher  .............  285G-1 

Stone,  Stones  ..........  2856"  (Day; 

cf  Flint  .............  11191'  (Day) 


Stone,  Stones — rnnluinci 

cf  Punishments.  .  . 

cf  Rock  .  . 

cf  Sela 

Stone-squarers . 
Stones,  Precious.  . 

cf  Adamant .     . 

Change  of  meaning    . 

Different  stones .  . 

Hebrew  names . 

cf  Hyacinth 

Inconsistencies ... 

Interpretat  ion  of  Gree 
names 

cf  Jewel 

List  of  stones 

cf  Metal .  . 

Xames 

cf  Ouches 

cf  Tarshish 

Various  texts 

Stoning 

cf  Punishments 

Stool 

cf  Birth-stool.  . 

cf  Seat  

Storax 

cf  Poplar 

cf  Stacte 

cf  Tragacanth 

Store-cities 

cf  Pit  horn 

cf  Raarnses 

Storehouses 

cf  Agriculture 

Stories 

cf  Temple 

Stork 

Storms 

On  Sea  of  ( lalilee.  .  .  . 
Story 

cf  Commentary  .  .  :  .  . 
Story  Telling 

cf  Games 

Story  Writer 

Stout,  Stoutness.  . 
Straight,  Straightway .  . 
Straight  Street 

cf  Damascus 

Strain  

Strait,  Straiten,  Straitly . 
St rakes  (Strake)..  . 

cf  Strike 

Strange  Fire 

Strange  Gods 

Strange  Wife 

cf    Stranger    and    So- 
journer  (in  OT)  .  .  .  . 

Strange  Woman 

cf  Strange  Wife.  . 


.2504b  (Ilirschj 
.2596"  (Day) 
.2713''  (Ewingj 
. 2856" 

.2856"  (Fletcher) 
.51-  (Day) 
285G1' 
.  2858'' 
.  2857" 
.  14431' 
.  28571' 
k 

.2856'' 
.1675''  (Orr) 
.2851  ib 

.2044-  (Masterman) 
. 2856" 

.2204''  (Caldecott) 
.2914- 
.  2858'' 

.2504''  (Hirsch) 
.2862''  (Clot ton) 
.  178'' 
.2710''  (Cotton 

.2421''  (Mastermanj 

28471' 
.  3005" 
.  2863- 

2401''  (Cornier) 

2520-  (Cone  1  en 

2863- 

77''  (Patch 

2863- 

2930-  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

2862-  (Stratton-Porter) 

1166"  (Ewing) 
687"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

11681'  (Smith) 

2863'' 

28631' 

2864-  (Easton 

778-  i^C.  If.  Thomson) 

2864" 

2864-  (M.  O.  Evans) 

2864- 

2867"  (Easton) 
2864b  (Dosker) 
1272-  (Betteridge) 
28641' 

2865"  (Wiener1 

2865" 

2864b 


33SO 


GFXFRAL  IXDFX 


Stranger    and    P  tjournei 

1  in    1  YV\ 

2XC).")"  (Wiener) 
(103"  (Ewing) 
G87b  (Pollard) 
112X" 
286ob 
1215'  (Porter) 
2X0.1" 
2X1)5" 
199oh  (Eager) 
22(.)7" 
2  152"  (Wiener' 
2409"  (LovertofT) 

2.").">G1'      (X.     and     E.      D. 
Isaacs) 

2Xi>(>"  (East  on) 
2X1)!)"  (Pollard) 

2.")04b  (  IIirseh) 
2X00'"  i  Pat  eh 
2S66b 
2XG01'  (Day 

.">.")2:L  (Kyle) 
f)'.H"  (Day) 
2.")'.).")"  (  Day 
3045"  '  Day) 
30741'  (Day) 

002"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 
2X07" 

2007"  (Ewing) 
2X1)7"  (  Faston) 
2X711'  i  Faston  > 

2S72'      Reeve 

20941'  (Millar) 
2504''  inirsoli,) 
1  His1'  iSmitln 

1  13(1''  (Niool  i 
2867b 
77"  (  Patch  i 
2597b 

2867b 

2S071'  (Hovey) 
2179'-  (W.  L.  Walker 
2868a 

2783" 

2SOX" 
2663b 

1X9G1'  (Cowan) 

2808* 

Suborn                    2868" 

Substance  2808"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

of  Chorethitos    

cf  Spirit  2842"  (Marais) 
Subtil,    Subtle,    Subtlety, 
Subtly      280X"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

of  Commerce  

Foreigners,  the  
of  Gentiles  

Suburbs 
of  City  002"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 
Subvert  2XOX'>  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Legal  provisions  
of  Marriage  
of  Pelethites.  . 
of  Priests  and  Levites. 
of  Proselyte  
of  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily 

Sucat  lutes                      .    .  .  286X" 

Succeed    Success                  2868"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

of  Fuodia                     .    .1038"  (Rutherfurd) 

Succor   Suooorer                  28GX1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Suocoth                    2X69"  (Ewing) 

Succoth           280!)"  (Condor) 

cf  Ftham  10121'  (Condor) 

Stranger    and    Sojourne] 
(in  Apoc  and  XT)  .  .  .  . 
Strangled  
Strangling 
of  Punishments  
Straw,  Stubble  
St  rawed      

of  Exodus              1052"  (Condor) 

cf  Pithom  2401b  (Condor) 
Sueeoth-benoth  2809"  (Pinches) 
of  Gods           1271"  (Reeve) 

Suchathites 
of  Sucathites  2XC>x>> 
Sud 
of  Sua  2808" 
Sudias  28G91' 
of  Hodevah  1403" 

St  ream  
of  Brook 

of  Canals 

Suffering  2XG91'  (Luering) 
Suffoeat  ion 
of  Punishments  250  I1'  (  Hirsch) 
Suicide 
of  Crimes  748"  (Hirsch) 
Sukkiim           28  <  0" 

of  Channel  
of  River  
of  Vale  
of  Watercourse      .    .  .  . 

Street 

cf  City                

Sulphur 

of  Brimstone                    5221'  (Patch) 

Strength  of  Israel  
Strife,  Waters  of 
of   Massah   and    Mori 
bah                    

Summer                                .2X70"  (Porter) 

of  Seasons                    .  .  .2710''  (Jov) 

Summer-house  2X70" 
rf  Winter-house  30X9" 
Sun 
of  Astronomy  301''  (Maunder) 
Sun  (figurative)  2X70"  (Sehenk) 
of  Sun-worship  2X701'  (Orr) 
Sun,  Chariots  of  the 
of  Horses  of  the  Sun.  .  1421" 
Sunday 
of  Lord's  Day  1919"  (Easton) 
Sun  (  late 
of  Gate,  East  117G1'  tCaldocott  ! 
Sun-god  345"  (Sayee 
-Mm    Horses  of  the             .1424" 

Strike,  Striker,  Stroke.  . 
of  Sure,  Surely  
of  Surety                 

Stringed  Instruments 
cf  Music                

Stripes 

cf  Punishments  
Strive 
cf  Games  
Stronghold 
of  Fortification  
Stubble                    

of  Agriculture  
cf  Rolling  Thing  

Cf  ,, 

Sun-images 
of  Images.  .            1452"  (Cobern) 

Stuff 

Sunrising  2870h 

Stumbling-block,   St  um- 

Sun   Smiting  by            .  .  .2S70b  (Macalister) 

cf  Moon.  .              2081a  (Sehenk;) 

cf  Offence            

Sunstroke 
of  Sun,  Smiting  by.  .  .  .2870b  (Macalister) 
S'ln-worship           2X701'  (Orr) 

Sua                 

of  Sia,  Siaha  
Sii'th 

of  P,eth-shemesh  453a  (Kyle) 

Subai  
of  Salmai               

of  Horses  of  the  Sun.  .1424" 
of  Sun  (figurative)  .  .  .  .2870"  (Sehenk) 
Sup,  Supper 
of  Meals  2013h  (Eager) 

Sub-apostolic  Literature 
Suba>  .  . 

GENERAL  INDEX 


33x1 


Superfluous,  Superfluity  .2871"  (T.  Lewis) 
Superscription  2X71"  (Miller) 
cf  Title  29XX1' 
Superstition,        Supers)  i- 
tious  2X71"  (Doohin) 
cf  Religion  255(ib  (Easton) 
Suph                                          9X71  :i  (F!winiO 

Sweet  Incense 
cf  Spices  
Swell  .  . 
cf  Swollen  . 
Swelling  
Swift 
cf  Swallow.  . 
Swift   Beasts.  . 

.  .2X10"  (Masterman) 
.  .2X75"  (MacalisterJ 
.  .  2X7(5" 
.  .2X7.")''  (Easton) 

.  .2X74"  (Strat  ton-Port  en 

2X751' 

Suphiih 

.2X7  11'  (Ewing) 
.3044" 

.201:;1'  (Eager) 
.1921''  (Gummey) 

2X7  11'  (Easton) 

Suppah 

cf  Vaheb  . 
Supper 
cf  Meals 

cf  Camel  

..',47''  (Dav) 

cf  Horse  .... 

.  .  1423"  (Dav 

Swine  

2X7.">I>  (Davj 

Swollen  

.  .2X7(1" 

Supper,  Lord's  
Sii])plv  ... 

Sword 
cf  Armor,  Arms  .... 
Sycamine  Tree  

cf  Mulberry  .  . 
Sycamore; 
cf  Sycomore  Tree  .  .  . 

Svchar  

.252''  (Xicolj 
.2X7(5"  (Masterman  j;    507 
(  Masterman) 
.20«>3'-  (.Masterman, 

.2877"  (Masterman) 
2X7o'>  (Ewing) 

cf  Add 

54'1  (M    ()    Evans) 

cf  Peter,  Second  Episl 
of 

e 
2357"  (Moorehead) 

Sur  

2X7  11' 

cf  Jerusalem  . 

I.")!).")'1  (Masterman) 

Sure,  Surely  

.2X7  11'  (Easton) 
.2X157"  (Easton) 
.2S72:i  (Reeve) 
.3037" 
2X72"  (Reeve) 

cf  Jacob's  Well  
cf  Shechem  
Sychem  
Sycomore  Tree 

.  155(5''  (Ewing) 
.  2755"  (Ewing) 
.  2X77" 
2X77"  (Masterman) 

cf  Strike  

cf  Surety  
cf  Undertake  
Sure!  v 

cf  Sycamine  Tree  .  .  . 
Syene 
cf  Seveneh  
Svmeon  .  . 

.2X7(5"  (  Masterman) 

.2744" 
.2877'' 
.2348'-  (Grav) 

cf  Debt,  Debtor  

.XM"  (W.  Evans) 

cf  Mortgage  
cf  Pledge.     .    . 

.2083'' 

240X1'  (Easton) 

cf  Security  
cf  Strike  
cf  Sure,  Surely  
cf  Undertake  

.2711''  (Dosker) 
.28(57"  (Easton) 
.2X71''  (Easton) 
.  3037" 

2X721'  (T.  Lewis) 

2782"  (  Pinches) 
2783" 

cf  Peter  (Simon  )  .  .  .  . 

cf  Simeon  
Symmachus 
cf  Sept  uaginf  .... 
Synagogue.  . 

.2794"  (S.  F.  Hunter 

.  272(5"  (Thackeray) 
2877b     (  Levertoff  j  •      ''SS 

Surname 

Susa  (Apoc) 
cf  Shuslian  
Susanchites 
cf  Shushanchites  

Building 

(A.  C.  Dickie) 
2878b 

cf  Chief  Seats  

.(JOG*  (J.  M.  Wilson) 
.  <)00>>  (Meyer) 
.  2X771' 
2X7X1' 

Susanna,  The  History  of  2872'"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
cf  Bel  and  the  Dragon.  4271'  (T.  W.  Davies  i 
Canonicity    and    posi- 
tion    2S721' 

Xame    . 

Officials 

<  )rigin  ... 

.  2878" 
.2879" 
2878" 

Service1 

Contents  

2873" 
7821'  (R.  I).  Wilson) 
2873b 
2873" 

140")"  (Masterman) 
2872h 
2873b 

2957'>  (Wem 
3U)2b  (Pratt  ) 
2X74" 

2X74"  (Eastonj 
2X74"  (Strat  ton-Porter) 
2X7  V'  (Stratton-Porten 

74.")'1  (Hirsch) 
2172"  (Levertoff) 
25041'  (Hirsclp 
2X741'  (Lueringi 

2.)  44"  (Masterman) 

cf  Daniel 

Synagogue,  The  Great.  . 
cf  Canon  of  the  OT.  . 
Synagogue  of  Libertines 
cf  Libert  ines  .  .  . 

.2X79''  (Orr) 
.554"  (Robinson) 

.1881"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 
2G961'  (Williams) 
.  1281''  (Iverach) 
2880"  (Rutherfnrdi 
1038"  (Rntherfnrd) 
3127"  (Rutherfurdj 
2880" 
2880"  (Allen) 
2SSOb  (Christie) 
288  lb 
1395''  (Conder) 
1X(521'  (Wright) 
2880b 
2122"  (Day) 
2880b 
220Sb  (Condi-  n 
23X6"  (Porter) 

Date.  .     . 

Fact  or  fiction  ?  
cf  Holm  Tree  
Name  
Original  language.  .  .  . 
cf  Text  of  the,  OT.  .  .  . 
cf  Woman  
Susi  

Synagogue  of  Satan.  .  .  . 
Synoptic  Gospels  
Syntyche  

cf  Euodia. 

cf  Yokefellow  
Synzygus  
Syracuse 

Swaddle,           Swaddling- 
band  
Swallow  

Syria 

Swan  

History 

Swearing 
cf  Crimes  
cf  (  >at  h  
cf  Punishments. 

cf  Hittites  

cf  Lebanon  

Name  and  its  origin.  . 
cf  Natural  Features  . 
Other  designations  .  . 
cf  Palestine  
cf  Phoenicia  .  . 

Sweat  

Sweet  Cane 
cf  Rood.  . 

33X2 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Syria  —  contin  u«l 

Physical  features  .....  2881s 

cf  Zobah  ............  3154b  (Christie) 

Syriac  ................  2883a 

cf  Aramaic  Language  .  222a  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

cf    Languages    of    the 

OT  ...............  1832a  (Weir) 

Syriac  Versions  ........  2883b  (Nicol) 

Analogy  of  Vulgate.  .  .28S3b 

History  of  Peshito  .  .  .  .2885- 

Old  Syriac  texts  ......  28S4a 

Origin  of  Peshito  .....  28S4b 

Other  translations.  .  .  .2SS5a 

Peshito  .............  28S3b 

Syriac  NT  ...........  2884* 

Syriac  OT  ...........  2SS31' 

Syria-maachah 

cf  Syria  .............  2SSOh  (Christie) 

Syrian  (AV  Syriack)  Lan- 

guage .....  .288">b 

Syrian  Language 
'cf  Syriac  ............  2883" 

Syrians  ...............  28S51'  (Porter) 

Division  of  Aram  .....  28S.V' 

Mixed  race  ..........  2SS(>» 

Xal)athaeans  and  Pal- 
myrenc's  ..........  28S6a 

Religion  .............  2S8G1' 

Semites  .............  2SS5b 

Syria  and  Israel  ......  28SG" 

Syrophoenician  ........  288(>b  (Ewing) 

Syrophoenician  Woman 

cf  Jesus  Christ  .....  1(548"  (Orr) 

Syrtis  .................  2SS<>'' 

Syzygua 

cf  Synzygus  .........  2S.SO- 


Taanach  ..............  2887"  (Ewing) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration  ........  2228"  (Cobern) 

Taanath-shiloh  .........  2887-  (Ewing) 

Tabaoth,  Tabbaoth  .....  2887" 

cf  Tabbath  ..........  28S71' 

Tabbath  ..............  2SS7b 

Tabeel  ................  2SS7b  (Eiselen) 

cf  Tobicl  ............  2990b 

Tabellius  ..............  2887b 

Taber  .................  2S87b 

Taberah  ...............  2S87b 

Tabernacle  A   (structure 

and  history)  .........  2S87b  (Caldecott; 

cf  Altar  .............  106b  (Wiener) 

cf  Ark  of  Covenant  .  .  .  242b  (Lotz) 

cf  Candle  ...........  552b  (Eager) 

cf  Candlestick,  Golden  553a  (Orr) 

cf  Cherubim  .........  603b  (Margolis) 

cf  Chronology  of   the 

OT  ...............  G35a  (Mack) 

cf  Court  of  Sanctuary.  72oa  (Caldecott) 

Dclocalization  of  wor- 
ship ..............  2892a 

Destruction  of  Shiloh.  2891b 


Tabernacle  A  (structure  and  history) — continued 

Divisions 2SS9b 

Furniture  of 2S90b;  115O  (Reeve) 

cf  Gate 1175b  (Easton) 

cf  Gate,  East 1176b  (Caldecott) 

History 2S91" 

cf  Holy  of  Holies 140.">-  (Caldecott) 

cf  Holy  Place 140.~>b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Incense 1 4G(5h  (Orr) 

Inclosure  or  court 2889" 

Introductory 2888" 

cf  Laver 18431'  i('aldecott) 

cf  Loop 1910- 

cf  Mercy-seat 203(5"  (Caldecott) 

NT  references 2892b 

cf  Rams'  Skins 2530" 

Removal  from  Sinai. .  .2891rl 
Restoration  of  the  ark  2892" 

cf  Sanctuary 2(58(ib  (Wiener) 

Settlement  in  Canaan.  289  lb 
cf  Shewbread,  Table  of  27(57b  (Caldecott) 
Sojourn  at  Kadesh. .  .  .2891'' 
Stage  in  revelation. .  . .2888b 
Structure  of  the  taber- 
nacle  28SS'- 

Symbolism 2892" 

cf  Tabernacle  P> 2893"  (Whitelaw) 

Tent  of  Meeting 2888- 

Tabernacle  B  (criticism)  2893a  (Whilelaw) 
Ability      to     construct 
such    a    building    in 

the  wilderness 2895a 

cf  Chronology  oftheOTG3r>"  (Mack) 
Conservative  and  criti- 
cal views 2893:1 

cf  Moses.  20$7b  (Kyle) 

No  tabernacle  in  pre- 

Solomonic  times.  .  .  .2893b 
Preexilic  prophets  and 

the  tabernacle  cultus  2S97" 
Relation  to  temple..  .  .2S93a 

cf  Shiloh  (place) 27G8b  (Ewing) 

cf  Tabernacle  A 2887b  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Tabernacles  at  Shiloh, 
Nob  and  Gibeon..  .  .2893'' 

cf  Tax,  Taxing 2918a  (Sweet) 

cf  Temple 2930b  (Caldecott;   Orr) 

cf  Tent 2947b  (Patch) 

cf  Twine 302Sa 

Unhistorical    character 
of  the  narratives. .  .  .2S9.">h 

cf  Veil 3047a  (Caldecott) 

cf  Witness 3099a  (Levcrtoff) 

cf  Worship 3111a  (Crannell) 

Tabernacle  of  Testimony 

(Witness) 2898- 

cf  Tabernacle  A 2892-  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Tabernacles,  Feast  of 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .1103-  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

cf  Wine 3087-  (Easton) 

Tabitha 

cf  Dorcas.  .870-  (S.  F.  Hunter) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Table  
cf  Meals  
cf  Money-changers. 
cf  Shcwbread,  Table  of 
cf  Tablet  

2898"  (Easton) 
2013b  (Eager) 
20S()b  (Pollard) 
27G7b  (Caldecott) 
2900"  (Richardson) 

Table  of  Nations  

2898b  (Pinches) 

cf  Abraham  

18"  (Boyd) 

Date  

2000" 

cf  Ham  

13231'  (Pinches) 

cf  Isles  of  the  Gentiles. 

151  lb 

cf  Japheth  

1568b  (Pinches) 

cf  Jobab  

1G88" 

cf  Mizraim  

201)9"  (Kyle) 

cf  Sabaeans  

2G29"  (Pinches) 

Scope  

2899a 

of  Semites,  Semitic  Re- 

ligion   

2718"  (Mack) 

cf  Shem  

2759a  (Pinches) 

Sons  of  Ham  

2800" 

Sons  of  Japheth  

2899" 

Sons  of  Shem  

2899b 

Table   and   its   object. 

i 

the  

2S98b 

Three  races,  the  

2899" 

of  Togarmah  

2993b  (Pinches) 

of  Ur  of  the  Chaldees. 

3039"  (Clay) 

A'alue  of  

2900a 

Table  of  Shewbread  

27G7b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Altar  

110"  (Caldecott) 

Tablet  

2900a  (Richardson) 

Biblical  references  .  .  . 

2900b 

cf  Roll  (Scroll)  

2.107"  (Richardson  < 

cf  Table  

2808"  (Easton) 

of  Tell  cl-Amarna.  .  .  . 

,2925b  (Kyle) 

Term  

2900a 

cf  AYriting  

.3121"  (Richardson) 

Tabor  

2001"  (Ewing) 

cf  Gibeath  

1225b  (Ewing) 

Tabor,  Mount  

.2901"  (Ewing) 

Appearance  

.2901b 

Events  at  

2901" 

Location  

2901" 

Transfiguration  

.2901b 

of    Transfiguration 

> 

Mount  of  

.3006"  (Ewing) 

Tabor,  Oak  of  

2902"  (Ewing) 

Tabret,  Timbrel 

of  Music  

2094b  (Millar) 

Tabrimmon  

.  2902a 

cf  Ben-hadad  

.43")b  (Nicol) 

cf  Riminon  

.2594"  (N.  Isaacs) 

Taches 

of  Clasps  . 

.GGo1'  (Caldecott) 

Tachmonite 

cf  Tahchemonite  ... 

2902b 

Tackling 

of  Ships  and  Boats.  .  . 

.2774"  (Xicol) 

Tadmor  

.2902"  (AVeir) 

cf  Tamar  (place)  .  . 

.2907b  (Ewing) 

Tahan,  Tahanites  

.2902" 

Tahapanes  

.2902b 

Tahash  

,2902b 

Tahath  (person;.  .  . 
Tuhuth  (place)  
cf   Wanderings   of    Is- 
rael   
Tahchemonitc  
cf  Ilachmonite. 
Tahpanhes  
Biblical  references. 
Excavations    and    dis- 
coveries   
Location  
Tahpenes  
cf  Pharaoh  
Tahrca           

2902b 
29021' 

JOG  1"    (Condor  j 
29021' 
13131'  (Hovey) 
2002''  (Cobern) 
2902b 

2903" 
2902'- 

2903" 
2350  >  (Kyle) 
2903" 

cf  Tarea 

2010' 

Tahtim-hodshi 

cf  Ilittites  
cf  Kadesh  on  Orontes. 
Tail  
cf  Hump                 

13951'  (Cornier) 
17S9"  (Christie) 
2903"  (Luoringj 
2G27a 

Take                     

29()3b  (Easton  i 

Tale                    

2904"  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Games                   •  •  • 

11G81'  (Smith) 

cf  Slander  
Talent         

281  4b  (Edwards; 
2004-  (Porter) 

cf  Money 

207G"  (Porter- 

Talitha  Cumi 

2904" 

T'lhnai                        .... 

2904" 

Tulnion                     

2904b 

cf  Tclom  (person)  .  . 
Talmud  
Babylonian  Talmud.  . 
Contents  and  divisions 
cf  Heifer  lied. 

2925b 

290-lll(Strackj;  GS5"  (OkoJ 
2906a 
2905" 
13G71'  (East  on) 

Importance  of.          •  • 

2904b 

Literature  on             .  . 

2906b 

Palestinian  Talmud.  . 
cf  Pharisees            .... 

2906a 

23G4b  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Rabbi               

2.522"  (Pollard) 

cf  Sanhedrin  
Traditional  law  
Verbal  explanations  .  . 
Talsas               

2GSSb  (LovortofTi 
2905" 
.  2904b 
2907b 

cf  Elasah                     •  . 

023" 

cf  Saloas                .... 

.  2GG4" 

Tarn  ah 
cf  Temah         

.2929" 

Tainar  (person)  
cf  \bsalom                 . 

.2907b  (Orrj 
.23"  (W.  AY.  Davies 

cf  Amnon  
cf  Judah  
cf  Maacah  (person)    . 
cf  Thamar  
Tamar  (place)  
of  Palm  Tree         .... 

.118" 
.  1758"  (Ewing) 
.  194o"  (Ewing> 
.  29G4b 
.2907b  (Ewingj 
.2235"  (Mastermani 

cf  Tadmor            

.2002"  (Weir) 

Tamarisk            

.2908"  (Mastermani;    507b 

T'immuz                 

(Masterman) 

.2908"        (Porter);         372" 

cf  \donis               

(Rogers) 
.  58" 

of  Calendar 

,.VHb  (Porter1 

3384 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Ttvmmuz — continual 

of  Gobal..  .  .  .  .1180"  (Porter, 

cf  Phoenicia 2387";  23S91'  (.Port or j 

Tanach 

of  Taanaeh 28S7"  (Ewing) 

Tanhuinctli 2908" 

Tanis 29081' 

of  Zojm 3153"  (Condor 

Tanner 2908''  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

of  Dyeing 883''  (Patch) 

Leather 2909" 

Method 2908"' 

cf  Parchment 2247''  (Patch) 

Simon,  the 290S'1 

Tanning 

cf  Wool 31041'  (,  Patch) 

Tapestry 2909' 

of  Weaving 3077 

Taphath 2909 

Taphon 

cf  Tophon 2948> 

Tappuah  (person) 29091 

Tappuah  (place) 2909" 

Tarah 

ot'Terali 29 IS1'  (East on) 

Taralah 2909'1 

Tarea 2910 ' 

cf  Tahroa 2903" 

Tares 2910" 

Target 

of  Mark  (noun) .  . 
Targum 


Date 

Jonathan,  Targum 

Language  of 

of  Logos nil:; 

Meaning  of  term  .  .         29  Id1' 

Modo  of  giving 291 1 " 

Onkelos,  Targum  of..  .2911'' 

Origin 2910'' 

Other  Targums 2913" 

I'se  of 2913'1 

Tarpelitos 2914" 

Tarshish 2914" 

cf  Stones,  Precious..  .    2862"  (Fletcher) 
Tarshish,  Navy  (Ships)  of 

of  Jehoshaphat 1583"  (Mosiman) 

of  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Nicul 
Tarsus 2914h  (Tod) 

Constitution  of 2916" 

Foundation  legends.  .  .2914'" 

Later  history 2917" 

of  Paul,  the  Apostle.  .2273"  (A.  T.Robertson) 

Paul's  homo 2916h 

Roman  period 291")'' 

Situation 2914'' 

Under  Creek  sway. .  .  .  2915'' 

Under  oriental  power. .  2915" 

University  at 2916" 


19S51'  (Pratt) 

2910"  (J.  E.H.Thomson); 

685"  (Oko) 
2911" 
2912'' 
29101' 

(Alexander; 


Tartak 2917" 

of  Gods 1271"  (Reeve) 

Tartan.  .  ..  .2917"  (Eiselen) 

cf  Rabsaris 2522b  (Clippinger) 

cf  Rabshakeh 2522b  (Clippinger) 

Taskmaster 2917"  (Hirsch) 

Tassel.  2917b  (Caldecott) 

of  Fringes 1  H6b  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Taste 291 71'  (Luering) 

Tattenai 2917''  (Umbach) 

cf  Sisinnos 2813" 

Tattler 291 7h 

Tav 

of  Taw 2918" 

Taverns,  Three 2918"  (Allen) 

Taw 2918" 

of  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

cf  Forehead 1127b  (Luering) 

of  Mark  (noun) 1985b  (Pratt) 

Tax,  Taxing 2918"  (Sweet  J 

General  considerations 2918" 

In  Israel 2918b 

Publicans 29201' 

of  Tabernacle.  .  .  2S.S71'  (Caldecott 

cf  Tribute.  .  ,3010b  (Ilirsoh) 

1  nder      Assyria      and 

Babylonia 2919" 

Under       Egypt       and 

Syria 2920" 

Under  foreign  conquer- 
ors  2919" 

Under  judges 2918'' 

Under  kings 2918b 

Under  Persia 29191' 

Under  Rome 2920" 

Teach,    Teacher,    Teach- 
ing. .  .  .2921"  (DeMent) 
.2923" 

.582''  (Gorbenling) 
h- 

ing 2923" 

of  Didaohe.  .  .  .3871'  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

of  Education 900b  (Meyer) 

Extra-Biblical  history  2922'' 

NT  history 2923" 

NT  terms 2922" 

OT  history 2922b 

OT  terms 2921" 

of  Spiritual  Gifts 28431'  (Lambert) 

Terms  for,  in  OT 2921" 

Tear  Bottle 2923h 

Tears.  2923b  (Maeahsterj 

cf  Bottle 509b  (Eager) 

Teat 2923b 

cf  Pap 2237b 

Tebah 2924" 

Tebaliah 2924" 

cf  Tobijah 29901' 

Tebeth 2924" 

of  Calendar 54 11'  (Porter) 

Tehaphnehes 

cf  Tahpanhes 2902b  (Cobern) 


Apostolic  work  .  .  . 

of  Catechist 

Christ's  work  of  to 


GENERAL  INDEX 


33x5 


Tohinnah 202  I" 

TeilTree .  .2921- 

cf  Terebinth 2919-  (Masterman  j 

Tekel 

cf  Mono,  Mono,  Tekel, 

Upharsin.  .  .  .2032"  (R.  T).  Wilson 

Tekoa .  .2921"  (Mastorman) 

Later  history.  ,  .  .292  I1' 

Scripture  references    .  .2921" 

Site 292  l'> 

Tel-abib 292  I1'  (Pinches) 

Telah 2925* 

Telaim 2925"  (Mastonnan 

Tclassar 2925-  (Pinches) 

cf  Eden S971'  (Wright) 

cf  Rosh 2(>23b  (Pinches) 

Telem  (person) 2925b 

cf  Tahnon 290  lb 

cf  Tolbanes 299 4" 

Telem  (place) 2925" 

cf  Telaim 2925-  (Mastermau) 

Tel-harsha 2925- 

Tell 

cf  Tale 2901"  (T.  Lewis) 

Toll  ol-Amarna  Tablets.  .2925'*  (Kyle) 

cf      Archaeology     and 

Criticism 22(i:l  (Kyle) 

CanaaniU:  civili/ation  .  2927" 

Cuneiform  writing.  .  .  .  292(>" 

Diplomat  ic  correspond- 
ence   2927b 

Discovery 292.-,'' 

Egyptian  rule,  but 
Babylonian  lan- 
guage   29271' 

Geographical  value. .  .  .  292(>h 

cf  Hoberites 13541' 

cf  Hebrew 1355"  (Orr) 

Historical  value 292<>b 

cf  Jerusalem 1613b  (Masterman) 

cf  Libraries lSS2a  (Richardson 

cf  Melchizedek 202Sb  (Roberts.) 

cf  Moses 20S31'  (Kyle) 

Name 2925b 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2223"  (Cobern) 

Philological  value 292(>b 

Physical  character.  .  .  .2921V1 

Problem  of  the  Ilabiri  29271' 

Proper  names 292t>" 

cf  Sidon 27S5"  (Porteri 

Verification  of  Biblical 

statements 2920'' 

Tell  el-Hesy  (Lachish) 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2225b  (C1ol)orn) 

Tel-melah 292S1' 

cf  Tel-harsha 292fv' 

Tema 292S1'  (Ewing) 

Teniah 

cf  Thomei 29731' 

Tcman.  .  2929;l  (Ewingj 


Ternoni  .  .2929- 

Temper.  ...  .  .2929-  (T.  Lewis) 

Temperance,  Temperate  2929b  (Jacobs) 

cf  Abstinence 2  lb  (Eager) 

cf  Drink,  Strong S79b  (Edwards) 

cf  Sobriety 2S20b  (Jacobs) 

Tempest.  .  .  .2929b  (Joy) 

Temple  A  (struct  tire  and 

history) 2930-  (Caldecott ;   <  )rr) 

cf  Adytum <>5" 

cf  Altar KM)'1  (Wiener  i 

cf  Altar  of  Burnt  Offer- 
ing  110b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Architecture 234-  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Asmoneans 2X3:i  (Dosker) 

ef  Boaz 491"      (Roberts);        1547b 

(Caldecott) 
cf  Candlestick,  Golden  553"  (Orr) 

cf  Cherubim 003"'  (Margolis) 

cf  Court  of  the  Sanc- 
tuary  725"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Cubit 705-  (Porter) 

cf  Furniture 11 50-  (Reeve) 

cf  Gate 1175''  (Easton) 

cf  ( late,  The  Beautiful  117('>b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Holy  of  Holies 1  105-  (Caldecott ) 

cf  Holy  Place 1  105b  (Caldecott ) 

cf  House M34b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Incense M  (>(>''  (Orr) 

cf  Jachin  and  Boa/.   .  .1547''  (Caldecott) 

cf  Jerusalem 101S1'  (Masterman) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1G371'  (Orr) 

cf  Knop 1X15'' 

,.f  Laver 1S431'  (Caldecott ) 

cf  Ledge- 1864'' 

cf  Lily-work 1X93'1 

cf  Maccabees,  Books  of  1952a  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Of  Onias 237-  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Palace 220X-  (Orr) 

cf     Partition,     Middle 

Wall  of 2253"  (Rutherfurd) 

,-f  Porch 24211' 

cf  Porch,  Solomon's.  .2121''  (Caldecott) 
cf  Reed,  Measuring.  .  .2545"  (Orr) 

cf  Sanctuary 2(>X6b  (Wiener) 

cf  Sea,  The  Molten,  or 

Bra/on 270X-  (Caldecott) 

cf  Settle  (ncnin) 2V431' 

cf  Shewbread,  Table  of  27ti7b  (Caldecott) 

cf  Shiloh  (place) 27(',Xb  (Ewingi 

Of  Siah 23S" 

cf  Singers,  Singing.  .  .  .2X()4b  (Millar) 

cf  Solomon 2X24-  (Weir) 

Of  Solomon 234b  (A.  C,  Dickie) 

cf  Stories 2X63" 

cf  Tabernacle  B  (criti- 
cism)   2X93"  (Whitolaw) 

cf  Treasure,  Treasurer, 

Treasury 30071'  (Raffety 

cf  Treasury   (of   Tem- 
ple)   .  .300X-  (Caldecott  i 

cf  Tpper  Chamber. .  .  .3039"  (Orr) 


33S6 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Temple  A  (structure  and  history)  — continued 

cf  Veil 3047"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Worship 3111"  (Cnmnell) 

cf  Zacharias 3129b  (East  on) 

Temple  B  (in  criticism)  .29 -10"  (Whitelaw) 
Central  sanctuary.  .  .  .2942'- 
Challenge  of  criticism.  2940" 
Errors  in  Chronicles..  .2941-' 
Errors  as  to  David..  .  .2941" 
Omissions  and  eontra- 

dictions 2941" 

riau  of  the  temple..  .  .  2941b 
(Quantity  of  material.  .29U1' 

Service  of 2942' 

Versions  different 2910'' 

Temple  (Ezekiel's) 29341'  (Caldecott;  Orri 

Buildings  and  adjuncts  2935b 

Courts 293:>" 

Relation  to  history  of 

the  temple 2934" 

Temple  (Herod's) 2937"  (Caldecott;  Orr! 

Apostolic  church 29391' 

Beginning  of  work.  .  .  .2937" 

cf  Gate,  The  Beautiful.  11761'  (Caldecott) 

Crandeur  of 2937" 

cf  Holy  of  Holies 1-10.1='  (Caldecott) 

Inner  sanctuary 29371' 

Jesus  in  the 2939" 

NT  references  to 2939" 

Passion  Week 29391' 

Temple  area 2937" 

Temple  building,  the.  .293S1' 
Temple    in    Christian 

thought 29391' 

cf  Treasury   (of   Tem- 
ple)  3008"  (Caldecott) 

Temple  (Solomon's).  .  .  .2930''  (Caldecott;  Orn 

Building,  the 2931" 

Courts 29321' 

David's  plan 29301' 

Furniture  of  court  .  .  .  .29331' 
Furniture  of  sanct  uary  29331' 

History  of 2934" 

Phoenician  help 2931" 

Plans  and  character. .  .2930'' 

Porch  and  pillars 2932" 

Royal  buildings 2933" 

Side  chambers 2932" 

Site 2930b 

Temple  (Zerubbabel's)  .  .293(5"  (Caldecott;  Orr) 
Building  and  furnit  ure  29361' 

Decree  of  Cyrus 2936" 

Founding  and  comple- 
tion  2936" 

Later  fortunes 2936b 

Temple    Keepers    (Serv- 
ants)  2942''  (Easton) 

cf  Nethinim 2139b  (Lees) 

Temples 2942b 

Temples,  Robbers  of    .    .2942b  (Jacobs^ 

Tempt,  Temptation 2942b  (Stuart) 

cf  Buddha 1.63f>b  (Orr) 


Tempt ,  Temptat  ion — continued 

cf  Prove 2469b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

c  f  T  e  in  p  t  a  t  i  o  n   o  f 

Christ 2943a  (Anderson) 

Temptation  of  Christ.  .  .2943a    (Anderson);     1806b 

(Stalker) 

Character  of  the  narra- 
tive  2944" 

First  temptation 2943b 

cf  Gethsemane 1221b  (Masterman) 

Ho\v  be  tempted  if  sin- 
less ? 2944b 

cf  Jesus  Christ 163oa  (Orrj 

cf  Points 2415a  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Satan 2694b  (Sweet) 

Second  temptation..  .  .2943b 

Significance 294:!" 

cf  Tempt,  Temptat  ion. 2942b  (Stuart) 

Third  temptation 2944a 

Time,        place         and 

sources 2943a 

Ten 

cf  Number 21f>7a  (Smith) 

Ten         Commandments, 

The.  ...  .  .  .2944b  (Sampey) 

Exegetical  notes 2946" 

cf  Family 1094b  (Caverno) 

Groups 294,5b 

How  numbered? 2945a 

An  Israelite  code 2944b 

Jesus    and    the    Deca- 
logue   2946b 

Original  form 2945b 

Promulgation 294.')" 

cf  Sabbath 2629b  (Sampey) 

Ten  Strings 

cf  Music 2094b  (Millar) 

Ten  Tribes  in  Captivity .  ~)71b  (Nicol) 

Tender 2947a  (Easton) 

cf  Blindness 487b  (Macalister) 

Tenon 2947a  (Caldecott) 

cf  Socket 2S21a  (Caldecott) 

cf  Tabernacle 2S9O  (Caldecott;  Orr) 

Tent 2947b  (Patch) 

Arab  customs 2947b 

Biblical  references ....  2947b 

Figurative  use 2948" 

cf  Goat's  Hair 1249b  (Patch) 

cf  Weaving 3077a  (Patch) 

Tenth 

cf  Tithe 2987b  (LevertolT) 

Tenth  Deal 2948a 

Tent-maker 2948a 

cf  Crafts 734a  (Patch) 

Tephon 2948b 

Terah  (person) 294Sb  (Easton) 

Terah  (place) 2949'1 

cf  Wanderings  of  Israel  3064a  (Conder) 
Teraphhn 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Divination 860a  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Gods I270b  (Reeve) 


(JEXERAL  IXDEX 


33X7 


Teraphirn — continued 

cf  Idolatry 1447b  (Cubern) 

cf  Image    .  .  .1400*  (Edwards) 

cf  Images  .    .  1  152"  (Cobern) 

cf  Jacob 1551"  (Boyd) 

Terebinth 2949"  (Masterinan);    508" 

(Masterman) 

cf  Oak 21 7 1'1  (Masterman  ) 

Teresh 2949" 

Terrace 2949" 

Terrible,  Terror 2949b  (M.  ().  Evans) 

Tertius 29491'  (S.  F.  Hunter,) 

Tertullus.  .  .  ,  .2919b  (Kerr) 

cf  Felix  Antonius.  .    .  .1105''  (Kerr) 
Testament 2950" 

Of  Abraham 1 77" 

Of  Adam 177" 

cf     Covenant     in     the 

XT 729b  (Estes;;    17")"   (J.  E. 

II.  Thomson) 

Of  Job 177' 

Of    the    twelve    patri- 
archs   1  75" 

Testament  of  Isaac 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture  H51b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson  . 

Testament,  Xew,  Canon 

of  the 5(53"  (Puggs) 

Testament,     New,    Text 

and  Manuscripts 29r)0'>  (Sitterly) 

Testament,  Old,  Canon  of 

the 554"  (Robinson) 

cf  Text  of  the  OT 2957b  (Weir) 

Testaments,  Between  the  455a  (Dosker) 
Testaments  of  the  Twelve; 

Patriarchs 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture  H51b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Testimony,  Ark  of  the 

cf    Ark    of    the    Cove- 
nant  242b  (Lotz) 

Teta 

cf  Ateta 317h 

Teth 2950" 

cf  Alphabet 103b  (Richardson) 

Tetrarch 2950"  (Dosker) 

Tetter 2950" 

cf  Freckled 1145" 

cf  Leprosy 1807"  (Macalister) 

cf  Spot,  Spotted 284(5b  (Macalister) 

Text  and  Manuscripts  of 

the  XT 29501'  (Sitterly) 

Autograph  copies 29501' 

Evidence  abundant .  .  .2950'' 

Four  groups  of  texts.  ,2956b 

Greek  copies  or  manu- 
scripts  2952" 

History  of  textual  criti- 
cism   2956b 

Lectionaries  and  serv- 
ice books. .  .    2954b 


ext  and  Manuscripts  of  the  XT-—ajn/ini.iril 

List  of  manuscripts.  .  . 2952r' 

cf  Manuscripts.  19Xl:i  (Richardson) 

Methods  of  crit  icism  .  ,  29551' 

Xecessity  for  criticism 
of  evidence 2955" 

Papyrus  fragments.  .  .  .2952'' 

Patristic  quotations   .  .2954" 

Periods       of        textual 
crit  icism 2957" 

cf  Print 2455:i  ('Richardson J 

cf  Septuagint 27271'  (Thackeray  i 

Sources  of  evidence .  .  .2950'' 

Types  of  error 2955" 

Vernacular  versions .  .  .2954" 
ext   of  the  OT 29571'  (Weir; 

cf  Alphabet l()3b  ( Richardson j 

Alteration      of      docu- 
ments  2901" 

Change  in  the  law.     .  .2959' 

Change  of  script 2959" 

Chapter  and  verses  .  .  .  29<'>3b 

Dale  of  vowel  points   .2902'' 

Division  into  books.  .  . 29(>2b 

Divisions  into  verses.  .2902" 

Earliest  form  of  writ- 
ing  2958" 

Early  printed  texts.  .  .29(>3b 

Euphemisms 29U1:1 

External  circumstances 
of  preservation 2959b 

History  of  the  text..  .  .2901b 

Inscriptions 295Sb 

Internal  conditions  of 
preservation 2959h 

Inversion    and    abbre- 
viation   29()()h 

Jehovah  and  Baal.  .  .  .2901" 

cf    Languages    of    the 

Old  Testament 1833"  (Weir) 

Letters    and    punctua- 
tion marks 29(50" 

cfManasses,  Prayer  of  1980"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Manuscripts  and  print- 
ed texts 2903b 

Masorah,  the 29(53" 

Xew  or  Aramaean  al- 
phabet  2958b 

Old  Hebrew  alphabet  .2958b 

Palestinian  consonants, 
vowels  and  accents. .  2963b 

Palestinian      vowel 
points 29(52b 

Preservation      of      the 
text 29591' 

Scribal  alteration 29(51'' 

Scribal  errors 29Glb 

cf  Seal 2708"  (Edwards) 

Sections  in  law,  proph- 
ets, etc 2902" 

Septuagint  version. .  .  .2960" 


33SS 


GENERAL  INDEX 


.29G4h 

.2907b  (Orr) 


Porter 

. 29S3"  i  Masterman) 


Text  of  the  OT — continued 

Text    iu   th"  first,   cen- 
tury AD 2900" 

Two  Hebrew  scripts. .  .295S1' 

Types  of  error  in  text.  29(11'' 

Vocalization      of      (lie 
text 29G2b 

cf  Writing 3114"  (Richardson) 

Thaddaeus 2904"  (Kerr) 

cf  Apocryphal  Acts.  .  .  lX3b  (A.  V.  Findlay) 

cf  Judas.  .  17Gr>"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Judas,  Not  Iscariot  .  17G7;l 

cf  Judas  of  James. .     .  .  ITti?1'  CKerr  • 

cf  Lehhaeus 1SG4" 

cf    Simon     the     Cana- 
naean 27971' 

cf  Thomas 2973" 

Thahash 

cf  Tahash 29021' 

Thaniah 

cf  Temah 2929'' 

Tliamar 

cf  Tamar  (person  i 
Thammuz 

cf  Tammuz 

Thatnnatlia 

cf  Tinmah 

Thank,  Thanks,  Thanks- 
giving  29G4b  (Easton) 

cf  Grace..  .  .  .  .1290"  (Easton) 

Thank  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice  in  theOT.  .2G3S"  (Reevej 
Thara 29G.~>" 

cf  Tcrali  (person) 294Xb  (Easton) 

Tharra 29(1.1' 

Tharshish 

cf  Tarsliish 2914" 

Tliassi 29G.r>" 

cf  Simon 279  I1' 

That   Day 

cf  Day  of  the  Lord. 
Theatre 

cf  Games 

Thebes 

cf  Xo-amon 

Thebez 

Thecoe 

cf  Tekoa 

Thee-ward..  .  ...  .290.1" 

cf  Ward 3072"  (East on) 

Theft 

cf  Crimes 74X"  (Hirscli) 

cf  Punishments 2.~>04b  (  Hirscli  i 

cf  Thief 2972"  (Easton) 

Thelasar 

cf  Telassar 292.~>"  i  Pinches) 

Thelersas 29G5b 

cf  Tel-harslm 2925- 

Theocanus 296.">b 

cf  Thocanus 2973a 

cfTikvah..  .  .2981b 


Angus) 
.799-  (Doskerj 
.  ll()Sb  (Smith) 

.2\W>  (Kyle) 
,29(>.>  (]•] wing; 

.2924-'  (Masterman) 


Theocracy 29l)f)b  (McPheetei-s) 

OT  idea 29(l.r)b 

OT  passages 29(i.">b 

Origin  of  term 29(>.">1' 

Theodotion 

cf  Language  of  the  XT  1S2(ib  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf  Septuagint 272.V'  (Thackeray) 

Theodotus 2900" 

Theology 

cf  Biblical  Theology..  .409''  (J.  Lindsay  i 
cf  Johannine Theology  109ob  (Law) 
cf  Pauline  Theology..  .  22S9"  (Easton  i 

Theophilus 2900"  (Kerr) 

Theras 2900" 

Thermeleth 290H1 

cf  Tel-melah 292Sb 

Tliessalonians,  The  First 

Epistle  of  Paul  to  the. 2900"  (R.  H.  Walker) 

Analysis 29071' 

Conditions        in        the 

church 2907" 

Doctrinal  features.  .  .  .2907b 
Founding         of         the 

church 29001' 

Importance 2900" 

Luke's     narrative     re- 
garding the  church. .  2900b 
Paul's     characteristics 

as  revealed 29071' 

Thessalonians,   The  Sec- 
ond Epistle  of  Paul  to 

the 290S"  (R.  II.  Walker) 

Against  Pauline  author- 
ship  29GS" 

Arguments  for  Pauline 

authorship 29GXb 

Authenticity 29GS" 

Exhortation    to    indus- 
try  2970" 

Importance    of    study- 
ing   1    Thess   and    2 

Thess  together 290S" 

Man  of  sin,  the 2909" 

cf  Man  of  Sin 1970b  (Orr) 

Theories          regarding 

man  of  sin 2909" 

Thessalonica 2970"  (Tod) 

History 2970b 

Later    history    of    the 

church  in 297 lb 

Paul's  visit 297()b 

Position  and  name..  .  .2970" 
Thcssalonian  church.  .2971" 

Theudas 2972"  (Kerr) 

cf  Gamaliel HG8a  (Kerr) 

Thick  Trees 2972" 

cf  Myrtle 21031'  (Masterman) 

Thicket 2972" 

cf  Forest 1132a  (Masterman) 

Thief 2972a  (Easton) 

cf  Assassins 2SSa  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Barabbas 402"  (Rees) 


GEXKHAL   IXDEX 


3389 


Thief  — cotUinitctl 

cf  Crimes 745''  (Ilirsch) 

cf  Robber,  Robbery..  .2595''  (Easton) 

Thigh 2972b  (East  on) 

cf  Hip 1394'' 

cf  Jealousy l.r)72''  (Forrester! 

cf  Knee 1815"  (Easton) 

cf  Leg ISO/)'1  (Luering; 

cf  Loins 1!)1 7:i  (Luering; 

cf  Sacrifice  in  NT 2(551"  (Williams) 

<if  Sacrifice  in  OT 2(538"  (Reeve) 

Thimnathah 2972>> 

cf  Tinmah 2983"  (Masterman 

Think 2972'-  (Jacobs) 

cf  Thought 2975" 

Third 2973" 

cf  Calendar 54 11'  (Porter) 

cf  Day 797b  (Gerberding) 

cf  Time 29Slb  (Porter) 

Third  Day 

cf  Lord's  Day 1919"  (Easton) 

Thirst 2973"  (On-; 

Thirteen,  Thirty 

cf  Number 2157"  (Smith) 

Thisbe 2973:i 

Thistles 

cf  Thorns,  Thistles.  .  .2974"  (Masterman) 

Thocanus 2973" 

cf  Tikvah 29Slh 

Thomas 2973"  (Kerr) 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels. 195"  (Hutchison) 
In    apocryphal    litera- 
ture   2973'' 

Character 29731' 

In  NT 2973" 

cf  Thaddaeus 29(54"  (Kerr) 

Thomas,  Gospel  of 

cf  Apocryphal  Gospels. 195"  (Hutchison) 

Thomei 2973b 

cf  Temah 2929" 

Thorn  in  the  Flesh 2974"  (Macalister) 

cf  Thorns,  Thistles..  .  .2974"  (.Masterman) 

Thorns,  Thistles 2974"  (Masterman) 

In  Biblical  history  ....  2975" 
Biblical  references ....  2974" 

cf  Botany 505"  (Masterman) 

cf  Hook 1419"  (Easton) 

Names  for 2974a 

cf  Nettles 2140"  (Masterman) 

Plentifulness  in  Pales- 
tine  2975" 

Thought 2975" 

cf  Think 2972b  (Jacobs) 

Thousand 

cf  Number 2157"  (Smith) 

Thracia,  Thracian 2975b 

cf  Tiras 2980"  (Wolf) 

Thrasaeus 2975b 

cf  Apollonius 200b  (Hutchison) 

Three 

cf  Number 2157"  (Smith) 


Three  Children,   Song  of 

the.  .  .2S3I"  (T.  \V.  l)avies) 

Threescore 

cf  Number 2157"  (Smith) 

Threshing 2975b  (Patch) 

cf  Agriculture 75b  (Patch) 

Threshing-floor 2975''  (Patch) 

Threshold 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Throne 297(5"  (Baur) 

Biblical  references  .  .  .  .297(5'' 

cf  King,  Kingdom.  .  .  .1799"  (Press) 

Majesty  of 297(5" 

Symbol       of        Divine 

power 2977" 

Thrum 2977" 

Thummim 

cf  Integrity 1484"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf    Urim    and    Tlium- 

mim 3040''  (N.  Isaacs) 

Thunder 2977"  (Joy) 

cf  Lightning 1S921'  (Joy) 

Thyatira 2977''  (Banks) 

History  and  products.  29771' 

Location 2977'' 

Present  town 29771' 

Thyine  Wood 2978" 

Tiberias 2978"  (Ewing) 

History  of 297Sb 

Location 2978" 

Modern  city 2979" 

Tiberias,  Sea  of 

cf  Galilee,  Sea  of 11(55"  (Ewing) 

Tiberius 2979"  (Angus) 

Administration 2979b 

Character 29791' 

Early  life  and  relations 

to  Augustus 2979" 

Jews,  the,  and 2980" 

Name  and  parentage   .2979" 

NT  and 2979b 

Reign 2979b 

Tibhath 2980"  (Christie) 

Tibni 2980" 

Tiboam 

cf  Jerusalem 1608"  (Masterman) 

Tidal 2980"  (Pinches) 

cf  Amraphel 12(5"  (Pinches);  3(5(5"  (Clay) 

cf  Arioch 241"  (Pinches) 

cf  Chedorlaomer 599"  (Pinches) 

cf  Eri-aku 9(59b  (Pinches) 

cf  Hammurabi 132(5"  (Pinches) 

Name  and  its  forms. .  .  2980b 

Suggestions 2980b 

Tudhula  mentioned.  .  .29SOb 

Tidings,  Glad 1233"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Tigellinus 

cf  Nero 213(5"  (Angus) 

Tiglath-pileser 2980b        (Nicol);         294" 

(Sayce) 

History  of 2981" 

Name  and  references.  .298()b 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Tiglnth-pileser — continue/! 

cf  Pul 12,50 11' 

cf  Syria 2SS:*1  (Christie) 

Western  campaigns  of  ")70b  (Nicol) 

Tigris.  ...                         .  -29S1*  (Wright) 
cfEden S<)7"  (Wright) 

Tikvah,  Tikvath.  .         .  .29S1'« 

cf  Theocanus 2965b 

cf  Thocanus 207.'!' 

Tile,  Tiling 29S1'> 

cf  E/ekiel 1071-  (Moller) 

cf  House 14:U'>  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Tilgath-pilnosor 

cf  Tiglath-pileser 29S01'  (Nicol) 

Tillage 

cf  Agriculture ".">''  (Patch) 

Tilon 29S1'> 

Tiniaeus .  .29Slb 

cf  Bartimaeus 40(1''  (Rees) 

Timbrel 

cf  Music 20'.)  I1'  (Millar) 

Time 29X11'  (Porter) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

cf  Calendar /ill1'  (Porter) 

cf  Coins G73;l  (Porter 

cf  Day 797b  (Gerberding) 

cf  lira '.MIS1'  (Porter) 

Hebrew  divisions 2982b 

cf  Hour.  .  .  .  .I!:!  I1  (Porter) 

cf  Midnight 2().->0"  (Porter) 

cf  Money 207G"  (Porteri 

cf  Month 20Sl:l  (Porter) 

cf  Xight-watch 21 1:>:' 

No  era 29S21' 

cf  X'oon,  Noonday.  .    .'2\~)~rl 
cf  Third..  .  ...2973a 

cf  Watch 3074-  (Porter) 

cf  Week 307S1' 

Week  and  month 2'.»s2' 

cf  Year 3120" 

Year  and  seasons 2'.)S2:l 

Time,  Last.  .  .  .1840"  (Yos) 

Time,  Times  and  a  Half  .29s2b 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Times,  ( )bserver  of 

cf  Divination SGO"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Magic 1903"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Timna 29S3" 

Timnah 29S3'1  (Masterman) 

Timnath 

cf  Timnah 2983"  (Masterman 

Timnath-heres 29s:!:i  (Ewingi 

Timnalh-serah 29S3"  (Exving) 

cf  Gaash ll^O" 

Tinmitc 29S:ib 

Tinion 29S3b 

Timotheus 29S3b  (Angus) 

Timothy 2983b  (Kutherfurd  > 

Birth  and  conversion.  .2984a 
Circumcision  and  ordi- 
nation   2984" 

Father  and  mother. .  .  . 29S  l:i 


Timothy  —  continued 

cf  Lois  

.1917b  (Rutherfurd) 

NT  references  to  .... 

.2984b 

Relations  to  Ephesus. 

2985* 

Relations  with  Paul.  . 

29,84" 

Rome,  at  

.  298.51' 

cf  Titus  

.298Sb  (Rutherfurd) 

Timothy,  Epistles  to 

cf  Pastoral  Epistles.  . 

22581'  (Ruthcrfurd) 

Tin  

.  298f)b 

cf  Alloy  

99b 

Tiphsah  

.2'.)X.-)'>  (E\ving) 

Tiras  

.2986"  (Wolf) 

cf  Thracia,  Thracian  . 

.  297,-)b 

Tirathites  

.29SO"  (Wolf) 

Tire,  Ileadtire  

.  29SG:l 

cf  Dress  

.875b  (Eager) 

Tires,  Round  

2986s 

cf  Ast  ronomv  

3()()b  (Maunder) 

cf  Crescents  

744b 

Tirhakah  

2!)SG!l  (Pinches) 

Chronology  

.  2986b 

Name  and  dynasty.  .  . 

.  298G" 

Relat  ions  with  Assyria 

2986b 

Tirhana  

.  2986b 

Tiria  

.  29S6b 

Tirshatha  

.298Gb  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Governor  

.  12891'  (Heidel) 

cf  Zerubbabel  

.31471'  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Tir/ah  

.2987'1  (Ewing) 

Tishbite  

.  29S7!l 

cf  Elijah  

.<):!()'>  (Farr) 

Tishri,  Tisri  

.  2987n 

cf  Calendar  

.541b  (Porter) 

Titans  

.29S7a 

cf  Rcphaim  

.2r)59b  (Porter) 

Tithe  

.29S71'  (Lever  toff) 

cf  First-fruits  

1114»  (Levertotf) 

OT  references  

.2987'' 

cf  Priests  and  Levites 

244(>b  (Wiener) 

Relation  of  priests  to. 

.  21)87h 

Variations  in  laws  .  .  . 

2988° 

Tit  ius  Justus 

cf  Justus  

.  17881'  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Titus  or  Titius  Jus- 

. 

tus  

.29S9b  (Hutherfurd) 

Title  

.  29SS1' 

cf  Superscription  .... 

.2871a  (Miller) 

Tittle  

.  29S8b 

cf  Jot  

.  17."):;1'  (Eastonj 

cf  Yodh  

,:U2(i:i 

Titus  

.29S8b  (Rutherfurd) 

Character  

.  2989b 

Circumcised  

.  2988b 

Journeys  

.  29S9- 

Relations  with  Paul.  . 

2988b 

cf  Timothy  

.2984-'1  (Rutherfurd) 

Titus,  Epistle  to 

cf  Pastoral  Epistles.  . 

.2258b  (Rutherfurd) 

Titus,  or  Titius  Justus. 

.2989b  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Justus  

.178Sb  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Proselyte  

.24G71'  (Levertoff) 

GENERAL  INDEX 


3391 


Titus  Manias  ...  1982*  (Angus) 

Tizite .  .  2990" 

Toah 

cf  Nahath 2109b 

Tob,  The  Laiul  of 2990"  (Ewing) 

cf  Tubias 3027b 

Tob-adonijah 2990" 

Tobiah 2990"  (11.  I).  Wilson) 

Tobias 29901' 

cf  Hyrcanus Ml.")1' 

cf  Tobit,  Book  of 29901'  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Tobie 

cf  Tubias 30271' 

Tobiel 29901' 

cf  Tabecl 28871'  (Eiselen) 

Tobijah 2990b 

cf  Tebaliah 2924" 

Tobit,  Book  of 29901'  (T.  W.  Davies) 

cf  Apocrypha 17Sb  (T.  W.  Davies) 

Contents 2990b 

Date 2992" 

Fact  or  fiction  ? 2991" 

Name  and  canonicity .  2990b 

Original  language 2993" 

Place  of  composition .  .  2992b 

Relation  to  Esther. .  .  .2992" 

cf  Sarah.  .  , 2G91b  (Boyd) 

Sources 2991b 

cf  Tobias 2990b 

Versions 2992b 

Tochen 29931' 

Togarmah 2993b  (Pinches) 

cf  Armenia 24f>h  (Tisdall) 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2S9Sb  (Pinches) 

cf  Trade 3003"  (Easton) 

Tohu 

cf  Nahath 2109b 

Toi 

cf  Ton 3000b 

Token 2994a  (Easton) 

cf  Sign 2789"  (Stuart) 

Tokhath 

cf  Tikvah 2981b 

Tola 2994"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Tolad 

cf  Eltolad 939'< 

Tolaitea 

cf  Tola 2994"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Tolbanes 2994" 

cf  Telem  (person).  .  .  .2925b 

Toll 2994"  (Pollard) 

Tomb 

cf  Burial .530''  (Eager) 

cf  Seal 2709"  (Edwards) 

Tomorrow 

cf  Morrow 2083a  (Porter) 

Tongs 2994a 

cf  Snuffers,  Snuffdishes  2820"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Tools 2999a  (Easton) 

Tongue 2994b  (Easton) 

cf  Mouth 2093a  (Luering) 


Tongue — continued 

cf  Tongues,  Confusion 

of 2994b  (Easton) 

Tongues,  Confusion  of. .  .  2994b  (Easton) 
cf  Babel,  Tower  of ....  355b  (Pinches) 

Context 2995a 

Historicity 2995a 

Narrative,  the 2994b 

Religious  value 29951' 

Sources 29951' 

cf  Tongue 2994b  (Easton) 

Tongues  of  Eire 2997"  (Moorehead) 

Distinctions 2998" 

Pentecost  scene 2997b 

Qualities  imparted   by 

the  Spirit 2998a 

Sinai  and  Pentecost 

compared 2997b 

cf  Tongues,  Gift  of. .  .  .2995b  (Easton) 

Tongues,  Gift  of 299,5b  (Easton) 

Account  in  Acts  2  ....  2996b 
Description  in   1    Cor 

14 2996a 

Ecstasy,  state  of 2996a 

Foreign    languages 

barred  out 2996a 

cf  Holy  Spirit 1406a  (Mullins) 

cf  Mystery 2104a  (Edwards) 

Religious  emotionalism  2997a 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts 2843a  (Lambert) 

cf  Tongues  of  Fire ....  2997a  (Moorehead) 

cf  Worship 3112a  (Crannell) 

Tongues,  Interpret  at  ion  of 

cf  Spiritual  Gifts 2843a  (Lambert) 

cf  Tongues,  Gift  of. .  .  .2995b  (Easton) 

Tools 2998b  (Easton) 

cf  Agriculture 75b  (Patch) 

cf  Ax,  Ax-head 341a  (Patch) 

cf  Awl 341a 

cf  Carpenter 580a 

cf  Compasses 694b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Crafts 734a  (Patch) 

Cutting  tools 2998b 

cf  File 1110a 

Hammer 2998b 

cf  Hammer 1325b  (Patch) 

cf  Hatchet 1343b 

cf  Knife 1815b  (Pollard) 

cf  Line 1894a  (Orr) 

cf  Mattock 2012b 

Other  tools 2999a 

cf  Pencil 2298a 

cf  Potter 2423b  (Patch) 

cf  Reed 2544a  (Masterman) 

cf  Tongs 2994a 

Toparchy 2999a 

Topaz 

cf  Stones,  Precious. .  .  .2862b  (Fletcher) 

Tophel 2999a  (Ewing) 

Topheth 2999b  (Masterman) 

cf  Hinnom,  Valley  of .  1393b  (Masterman) 
cf  Kidron,  The  Brook.  1798a  (Masterman) 


(1EXERAL  IXDEX 


Topheth — continual 

cf  Pile 23981' 

Torah 

cf  Law  in  the  OT 1852"  (Rule) 

cf  Revelation 2573b  (Warfiel(l) 

Torch 2999b 

cf  Lamp.  .  .  .  .  .1825"  (Porter) 

cf  Lantern 183Gb 

Tonnah 2999b 

cf  Privy 245?' 

Torment,  Place  of 2999'' 

cf  Hell 1371-  (Orr)' 

Tormentor 2999b  (Easton) 

Tortoise 2999b  (Day) 

cf  Lizard 190(5='  (Day) 

cf  Reptile 256 1" 

Torture 

cf  Siege 27SS1'  (Xicolj 

Totemism 3000"  (M.  ().  Evans 

Animal  names 3000;' 

Criticism 3000" 

cf  Defilement SIS"  (Crannelli 

cf  Images 1453"  (Cobern) 

In  Israel 3000" 

cf  Israel,  Religion  of.  .1532"  (Orelli) 

cf  Sacrifice  (XT) 2051"  (Williams) 

cf  Sacrifice  (OT) 2638"  (Reeve) 

cf Shaphan 2749b  (Wolf) 

cf  Wolf 3()99b  (Day) 

cf  Zimrun 3149b  (Roberts) 

Tou 3000'' 

Tow 3000'' 

Tower 

cf  City 662"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Fortification 1  137'-  (Xicol) 

cf  Watch-tower 3071" 

Tower  of  Babel 

cf  Astronomy 300'1  (Maunder' 

cf  Babel,  Tower  of..  .  .  355b  (Pinches) 

cf  Tongues,  Confusion 

of 29941'  (Easton; 

Tower  of  David 

cf  Jerusalem 1595b  (Masterman) 

Tower     of     Edar      (The 

Flock) 

cf  Eder S99"  (Masterman) 

Tower  of  the  Furnaces.  .  1149b 
Tower  of  Ilananeel 

cf  Hananel,  Tower  of  .1333"  (Masterman) 

Tower  of  Ivory 3000b  (Christie) 

Tower  of  Lebanon 3000b  (Christie) 

cf  Lebanon 1SG21'  (Wright ; 

Tower  of  Meah 

cf  Hammeah,  Tower  of  1325b  (Masterman) 
Tower  of  Penuel 

cf  Peniel 2298"  (Ewing) 

Tower  of  Shechem 3000b 

Tower  of  Siloain 

cf  Siloam 2791a  (Masterman) 

Tower  of  Syene 

cf  Seveneh. .  . .  2744a 


Town 3001"  (Christie) 

cf  City 1562"  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Havvoth-jair 1345"  (Ewing) 

cf  Village 3049b  (Christie) 

Town  Clerk 3001"  (Dusker) 

cf  Ephesus 901"  (Banks) 

Trachoriitis 3001"  (Ewing) 

cf  Argob 240b  (Ewing) 

Description 300 11' 

Location 3001" 

Present  condition 3001b 

Trade 3002"  (Easton) 

cf  Alexandria 93"  (Cobern) 

cf  Antioch 157b  (C.  II.  Thomson) 

cf  Chapman 594b 

Early  history  of 3002b 

cf  Ethics 1013"  (Alexander) 

Exilic  and  later 30031' 

cf  Exile 1052" 

Maritime  trade 3003" 

Position  of  Palestine-.  .3002'' 

Preexilic 3()03b 

Products  of  Palestine.. 3002b 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Xicol) 

Solomon 3003" 

Terms  for 3002" 

cf  Togurmah 2993b  (Pinches) 

cf  Traffic 3004b  (Raffety) 

cf  Wine 30S8"  (Easton) 

Trades 

cf  Crafts 734"  (Patch) 

Tradition 3004"  (Williams) 

cf  Heredity 1370"  (East on) 

In  Jewish  theology. .  .  .3004" 
In  Pauline  writings.  .  .3001'' 

cf  Sin 2798>>  (McConnell) 

cf  Uncleanness 30301'  (Williams) 

Traffic,  Trafficker 3004b  (Raffety) 

cf  Canaan 549"  (Saycc) 

cf  Market 1995b  (Raffety) 

cf  Merchandise 2035"  (Raffety) 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Xicol) 
cf  Trade 3002"  (Easton) 

Tragacanth 3005" 

cf  Spice 2840"  (Masterman) 

cf  Stacte 2S47b 

Train  (noun) 3005" 

cf  Skirt 2S14b 

Train,  Trained 3005" 

Trance 3005"  (Macalister) 

Transfiguration 3005b  (Stuart) 

cf  Jesus  Christ 1649"  (Orr) 

cf  Xaphtali 2118b  (Ewing) 

Xarrative  of 3005b 

Significance  of 3005b 

Transfiguration,      Mount 

of 3006a  (Ewing) 

cf  Caesarea 536b  (Ewing) 

Jebel  Jermuk 3006b 

Mt.  Hermon 3006" 

Xot  Olivet  or  Tabor.  .3006" 

cf  Tabor,  Mount  of.  .  .2901a  (Ewing) 


GENERAL IXDEX 


Transform 300t>h 

Transgression 300(>b  (I)ungan) 

Translation 3007"  (McPheetersj 

Trap 3007"  (Stnitton-Porter! 

cf  Gin 1231'1  (Stratton-Porter 

cf  Snare 2819"  (Stratton-Porten 

Travail 3007"  (Macalisten 

cf  Birth 477b  (Eager) 

cf  Labor 18191'  (Orr) 

Traveller 30071' 

cf  Wayfaring  Man.  .  .  .3070" 
Travels  in  Palestine 
cf     Palestine,      Recent 

Exploration..  .  .  2223b  (Cobern) 

Traverner,  Richard 948h  (Hutchison) 

Tread 

cf  Wine,  Wine  Press.  .  30SG"  (East on) 

Treason 30071' 

Treasure,  Treasurer, 

Treasury 30071'  (Raffety) 

cf  Corban 7091'  (Baur) 

Hidden  riches 3007b 

XT  references 3008" 

OT  references 30071' 

cf  Riches 2r>90b  (Forrester) 

Storehouse 3007b 

cf  Temple 293S"  (Caldecott;    Orn 

Treasury  (of  Temple)  .  .  .3008b  (Cald(>cott  j 

Later  temples 300Sb 

Origin  of 3008" 

In  Solomonic  temple .  .  3008b 

cf  Temple 2938"  (Caldecott;   Orn 

Treaty 3008b  (Xicol) 

cf  Rome 2618"  (Allen; 

cf  War 3069b  (Xicol) 

Tree 

cf  Botany f>0o"  (Masterman) 

cf  Food 1122b  (Eager) 

cf  Siege 278(>b  (Xicolj 

Tree  of  Life 3009"  (Reevej 

In  apocryphal  writ  ings.  30091' 

In  Eden 3009" 

Interpretation  of  Eden 

story 3009" 

cf  Life 1888"  (Reeve) 

Poetic  simile, 30091' 

In  Revelation  of  John .  30091' 

Trees,  Goodly 1278b  (Masterman) 

Trees,  Shady 

cf  Lotus  Trees 1931b  (Masterman  i 

Trees,  Thick 2972" 

Trench 

cf  Siege 2780"  (Xicolj 

Trespass 3010"  (Dungan) 

Trespass  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice  in  the  OT .  .  2038"  (Reeve) 
Trial 

cf  Courts,  Judicial ....  72ob  (Hirsch) 

cf  Sanhedrin 2(>88b  (Levertoff) 

Trial  of  Jesus 

cf    Jesus,    Arrest    and 

Trial  of 16G8b  (Maclaren) 


(Easton) 
(Conder) 
(Pollard) 
(Hirsch) 
(Sweet) 

(X.  Isaacsj 
(Iv  I).  Isaacs) 


( Kurt/j 


(Cowan) 
(Warfield) 

A.  T.  Robertson 
Lindsay;   Dam 


Tribe..  3010 

cf  Palestine 22121 

Tribulation 3010' 

Tribute 3010' 

cf  Tax,  Taxing 2918" 

Tribute  Money.  .  .  .301  1  ' 

Triclinium 301  ]•> 

cf  Feasts  and  Fasts.  .  .1103" 

Trim 3011" 

Trine     (Triune)     Immer- 
sion  301 lb 

cf  Bapt  ism 38.V'  i 

M. 

Church  fathers,  the.  .  .3012" 
Doctrinal  argument .  .  .3011'' 
Greek  church  usage.  .  .3012" 
Historical  practice .  .  .  .3011b 
Jesus  and  early  Chris- 
tians  301 11' 

Linguistic  basis 301  lb 

cf  Lit  end  are,  Sub-apos.  1 899" 

Trinity 3012" 

cf  Baptism 38.~)b  ( 

M. 

Baptismal  formula. .  .  .3017" 
Baptismal  formula, 

criticism  of 3018" 

Christian       conscious- 
ness  3021" 

cf  Father,  God  the..  .  .1100h 
Foundation  of  the  doc- 
trine  3021b 

cf  God 1250"  (Rres) 

Hints  of,  in  OT 301  lb 

Implications      of      the 
"Son"  and  "Spirit  "  3020" 

Implied  in  XT 301. ~>b 

In       Johannine       dis- 
courses  301()b 

Manifested  in  Son  and 

Spirit 301.T" 

X"o  rational  proof  of. .  .3013" 
Xot  mentioned  in  OT  .  3014" 
In  other  XT  writings.  .3019b 
In  Pauline  writings.  .  .3018b 

cf  Pauline  Theology  22901'  (Easton) 
Presupposed  in  XT.  .  .301  lh 
A  revealed  doctrine.  .  .3012'' 
Question     of    .subordi- 
nation  3020b 

Supported  by  reason.  . 30131' 
In  teaching  of  Jesus .  .  .3010" 

Term,  the 3012' 

Triads  of  gods 3012b 

Variations    in    nomen- 
clature  3019b 

Various  arguments  for  3013" 

Tripolis  (Apoc) 3022b  (Ewing) 

Triumph 3022h  (A.  W.  Evans} 

cf  Josephus  Flavius.  .  .  1742"  (Wenley) 

cf  Savor 270()b  (Edwards) 

Troas 3023°  (Banks; 


3394 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Troglodytes 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 2232"  (Cobern) 

Trogyllium 3023a  (Banks) 

Troop 

cf  Army 254b  (Nicol) 

Trophimus 3023b  (Rutherfurd ) 

Cause  of  Paul's  arrest  .3023b 

Description  of 3024" 

AnEphesian 302*' 

At  .Miletus 3023'- 

Trough 

cf  Bread 514b  (Eager) 

Trow 3024" 

Trov,  Archaeological  Evi- 
dence of 280"  (White) 

Truccbreaker 3024" 

Trump,  Trumpet 

cf  Music 20941'  (Millar) 

Trumpets,  Feast  of 302411  (East  on) 

Description 3024" 

Later  history 30241' 

Origin 3024>> 

Ritual 30241' 

Significance 3024h 

Trust,  Breach  of 302')" 

Truth 302r>"  (Carver) 

Aspects  of 3025b 

cf  Authority   (in  Reli- 
gion)   333"  (Roes) 

cf  Ethics 1013"  (Alexander) 

cf  Faithfulness 108Sb  (Hodge) 

In  God 3026" 

In  man 3026b 

cf  Philosophy 23S3"  (Rees) 

In  religion 302(ib 

cf  Right 259 1"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Sin 2798b  (McConnell) 

Special  features 3026" 

Standards  of 30251' 

Terms 302:," 

Tryphaena 3027"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Trypho 

cf  Literature,  Sub-apos  1904a  (Cowan) 

Tryphon 3027"  (Angus) 

cf  Antiochua  VI 159b  (Harry) 

cf  Demetrius 826"  (Kinsella) 

cf  Maccabaeus,  Macca- 
bees  1947a  (Hutchison  i 

Tryphosa 3027" 

cf  Tryphaena 3027"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Tsadhe 

cf  gadhe 536a 

Tubal 3027b  (Wolf) 

Tubal-cain 3027b  (Wolf) 

Tubias 3027b 

cf  Tob,  The  Land  of .  .  2990"  (Ewing) 

Tubieni 3027b 

Tumor 3027b 

cf  Emerods 940b  (Macalister) 

Turanian  Armenians ....  247b 
Turban 

cf  Dress 87ob  (Eager; 


Turpentine  Tree 

cf  Terebinth 2949"  (Masterrnan) 

Turtle-dove 

cf  Dove 872"  (Stratton-Porter) 

Tutor 3028" 

cf  Schoolmaster 2702b  (Easton) 

Twelve 

cf  Apostles 202b  (Lambert) 

cf  Number 2157"  (Smith) 

Twelve  Apostles,  Gospels 

of  the 198"  (Hutchison) 

Twelve  Patriarchs,  Testa- 
ments of  the 

cf  Apocalyptic  Litera- 
ture. . 161b  (J.  E.  II.  Thomson) 

Twelve  Stars 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Twenty 

cf  Number !  .  .  .2157"  (Smith) 

Twilight 302,8"  (Joy) 

Twin  Brothers 

cf  Dioscuri 851"  (Maunder) 

Twine 3028" 

cf  Linen 1894"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Two 

cf  Xumber 2157"  (Smith) 

Tychicus 3028"  (Rutheri'urd) 

Character  and  career.  .302Sb 

cf  Laodiceans,  Epistle 

to  the 1836b  (Rutherfurd) 

NT  references 3028" 

Paul's  relations  with .  .  302S1' 
Type 3029"  (Moorehead) 

Classification  of  types. 3029b 

Definition 3029" 

Distinctive  features  of 
types 30291' 

InOT 3029b 

Tyrannus 3030"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

Tyro 3030b  (Porter) 

History 3031" 

cf  Phoenicia 2391"  (Porter) 

Physical  features 3030b 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2775b  (Nicol) 

cf  Sidon 2785"  (Porter) 

cf  Siege 2787"  (Nicol) 

Subjection    to    Sidon, 

Egypt,  etc 3031" 

Tyre,  Ladder  of 3032"  (Christie) 

Tyropoeon,  The 

cf  Jerusalem 15991'  (Masterman) 

Tyrus 

cf  Tyre 3030'-  (Porter) 

Tzaddi 

cf  Qadhe 536" 

Ucal 3032"  (Roberts^ 

cf  Ithiel Io43b  (Genung; 

Uel 3032" 

Uknaz 3032" 

cf  Kenaz 1791b 

LTai..  3032"  (Pinches) 


GEXEHAL  IXDEX 


Ulam 3033" 

Ulla ..3033" 

Umma -30")"  (Clay) 

Ummah .  .  3033" 

Umpire 

cf  Daysman  .  .  .799"  (A.  W.  Evans) 

Unbelief.  .  .  .  .3033"  (Dunelm) 

Unbeliever.  .  3033" 

Uncertain,  Uncertainty.  .3033" 
Unchangeable,  Unchango- 

al)leness 3033"  (1  lodge) 

cf    Faithful,    Faithful- 
ness  108H1'  (,  Hodge) 

God  as 3033b 

cf  Immutability 1461b 

Knowledge     and     free 
will. 3034'' 

In  natural  theology.  .  .3033"' 

Xot  immobility 3034" 

Relations  to  men 303")" 

Relation  to  world 3034'' 

In  Scripture 30331' 

Unchastity 

cf  Crimes 7  IS"  (Ilirsch) 

cf  Lewdness l<S80b  (Raffety) 

cf  Marriage 1990b  (Eager) 

cf  Punishments 2504b  (Ilirsch) 

Uncircumcised 303  5b  (Easton) 

cf  Circumcision 056''  (T.  Lewis) 

Uncle 3035b 

cf  Relationships,  Fam- 
ily  2554"     (X.     and     E.      1). 

Isaacs) 
Unclean 

cf  Seed 2712b  (Easton) 

Unclean  Foods 

cf  Abomination 10"  (Eager) 

Uncleanness 3035''  (Williams) 

cf  Crimes 745b  (Hirsch) 

cf     Filth,      Filthiness, 

Filthy 1110b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Food 1121''  (Eager) 

Israel's  laws 3030" 

cf  Leper 1807"  (Macalister) 

In  XT 3030'' 

XT  terms 3030" 

OT  teaching 3030" 

OT  terms 3035'' 

cf  Punishments 2,">04b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Separation 2721b 

cf  Tradition 3004"  (Williams) 

cf  Unwashen 3038''  (Williams) 

Unclean  Spirit, 

cf  Demon,  Demoniac;.  .827''  (Sweet) 
Unclothed 

cf  Clothed  Upon 070a  (Clippinger) 

Unction 3037" 

Undented 3037" 

Undergirding 

cf  Ships  and  Boats. .  .  .2774"  (Xicol) 

Underneath 3037" 

Undersetter.  .  .  .3037" 


Undertake 3037" 

cf  Sure 2871b  (Easton) 

cf  Surety 2872"  (Reeve) 

Unequal ...  .  .  3037'' 

cf  Yoke 3120''  (Easton) 

Unfeigned 3037'' 

Ungodly 3037''  (W.  Evans) 

Unicorn 3037'1 

cf  Rhinoceros 2589" 

Union  with  Christ, 

cf  Faith 10871'  (Dunelm) 

Unity 30371' 

University 

cf  Tarsus 2910"  (Tod) 

Unknown  God 3037''  (Easton) 

cf  Athens 319''  (Harry) 

Unlearned 3038" 

Unleavened 

cf  Leaven 1802"  (Eager) 

cf  Passover 2250"  (X.  Isaacs) 

cf  Sacrifice  in  the  OT.2G38"  (Reeve) 
Unnatural  Vice 

cf  Crimes 748"  (Hirsch) 

cf  Punishments 2504''  (Ilirsch) 

Unni 3038" 

Unno 3038" 

Unpardonable  Sin 

cf  Blasphemy 485b  (Rees) 

Unquenchable  Fire.  .     .  .3038"  (Orr) 

cf   Punishment,    Ever- 
lasting  250 lb  (Orr) 

Unternpered 3038b  (Patch) 

cf  Whitewash 3083b 

Untoward 303Sb 

Unwalled 

cf  Village 3049b  (Christie) 

Unwashen 303Sb  (Williams) 

cf  Purity 2500b       (W.   L.  Walker); 

2507b  (Caverno) 

cf  Uncleanness 3035b  (Williams) 

Unworthily 3038b 

Unwritten  Sayings 

cf  Agrapha 72"  (Smith) 

Upharsin 3038'' 

cf  Mene,  Mene,  Tekel, 

Upharsin 2032"  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

Uphaz 3038b  (Weir) 

Upper   Chamber,    Upper 

Room 3039"  (Orr) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

Upper  Garment 

cf  Fisher's  Coat 1110" 

Ur  of  the  Chaldees 3039"  (Clay) 

Identifications 3039" 

Search  for 3039" 

cf  Shinar 2773"  (Pinches) 

cf  Table  of  Nations.  .  .2899b  (Pinches) 

Various  views 3039b 

Ur  (person) 3039" 

Urbane 

cf  Urbanus 3039'' 

Urbanus 30391' 

Uri..  ..30391' 


339(> 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Uriah   I  rijah 

3039b  (East  on) 

Vainglory 

30441'  (W    L    Walker) 

cf   Vliikain               .    .  . 

S4"  (Beeeher) 

cf  Vanity  . 

304.V'  (W    L    Walker,) 

of  Altar  
cf  Bathshcba  
cf   Marmot  li    (Mere 
mot  h) 

.  !()(>''  (Wiener) 
41(>:l  (Breslich) 

1996" 

Vaizatha,  Vajezatha.  .  . 
Vale  of  Siddim 
cf  Ad  mah  
Vale,  Valley 

.  30441' 

.  r>6>>  (Wright  ) 
304"yi  (Day) 

Urias 

3040" 

cf  Brook 

")23b  (Dav) 

cf  Uriah,  Urijah 

.3039''  (East  on) 

cf  Champaign 

r>92b  (Dav) 

Urias  
Uriel  (archangel)  
Uriel  (person) 

.304O 

.3010"  (Angus; 
3040a 

cf  Jerusalem  
cf  Lowland  
cf  River 

.  l.r)99"  (Mastennan) 
.1934b(Day) 
2")9")!l  (Dav) 

Urijah 

cf  Uriah    Urijah 

30391'  (East  on) 

cf  Shephelali  
cf  Stream 

.  27(52:i  (Ewingj 
2S()li1>  (Dav) 

Urmi  and  Thuininim 

30401'  (N.  Isaacs) 

Valiant,  Valiantly  . 

.304.51'  (\\    L    Walker) 

Crit  ical  view 

3041=' 

Valley 

Definition 

30401' 

cf  River 

'>.->9">:i  (Dav) 

Etymology  
cf  Integrity  

30  II1' 
11X1"  i\V.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Vale,  Valley  
Yallev  of  Decision  

.304fr'  (I)ayj 
.304.-)'' 

cf  Priests  and  Levites. 
Traditional  view  
Use  in  OT  
Urununa 

24.">2"  (Wiener) 
3041" 
3040b 

3(>.->'>  (Clav) 

cf  Jehoshapliat  ,  Valle_ 
of  
Valley  (late  
cf  Jerusalem  (  lates.  .  . 

y 
loS3M  (Mastennan) 
304.V1  (Mastennan) 
.  I")!).")1'  (Masterrnan) 

Use 

cf  Abuse  
Usury 

2t>>' 
304  I1'  il'ollard) 

Valley  of  (liants 
cf  Rephaim,  Vale  of.  . 
Yallev  of  Hinnom       .  . 

2.->tH):i  (lowing) 
13931'  (Masterman) 

cf  In!  crest                      .  . 

14SS1'  (Reeve) 

cf  Topheth  

29991'  (Masterman) 

Uta     . 
Uthai 

3042" 
3042" 

Valley  of  Jehoshaphal  .  . 

\allev   Jordan 

1  ")S3:i  (Masterman) 
17:!."):1  (Wright) 

Utlii  

30421' 

Vallev  of  Ke/.iz 

Ut  ilitarianism  
Utmost,  Uttermost  Sea 
cf  Mediterranean  Sea 
Ut  termost 

101!)'  (Alexander; 
202C)1'  (lleideli 

3042" 

cf  Emek-kcziz  
Valley  of  Slaughter.  .  .  . 
cf  Hinnom,  Valley  of. 
cf  Topheth 

940b 
2815" 

13931'  (Mast(>rman) 
•_'()!)(.»h  (Masterman  > 

Uz  (person) 

3012"  (Reeve) 

Vallev  of  Sorek             .  . 

2S3I;1'  (Maslerman) 

Hz  (place)  
cf  Jerusalem 

304  21'  (Weir) 
I.")!).")1'  (Masterman) 

cf  Vine  
Vallev  of  Vision 

30491'  (Mast<>rman) 
3045b 

cf  Sheba  

27r)2'>  (Weir) 

'  Vampire  

3045b 

Uzai 

3042b 

cf  Horseleach        .... 

1421'  (Dav) 

Uzal 

304-)h  (Fulton) 

Vamali  

3045b 

U/za,  Uzzah  
TJzzen-sheerah 

3013"  (Roberts) 
3013' 

Vanity,  Vanities  
cf  Vainglory  

304.-)''  (W.  L.  Walker) 
304  I1'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

U/zi 

304  3;1  (Robert- 

Vapor      

304I1"  (Dav) 

Uzzia 

3043b 

cf  Mist 

2()()7"  (Jov) 

Uzziah  (Azariah) 

3043'1  (CaldecottJ 

Vashni 

3046a 

Accession  and  reign.  . 
Chronology  of  
Leprosy  of 

3043h 
3044" 
3043b 

Vashti  
Vat  (fat  vessel;  
Vault                             .    .  . 

3()4()b  (Uniuhart) 
1  KM)" 
3046b 

Name  the 

30431' 

cf  Divinat  ion  

S(50"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

(;f  ()/l;ls 

2206b 

cf  Witchcraft  

3097"  (T.  \\.  Davies) 

cf  Pekahiah. 

2290"  (Caldecott) 

Vault  of  the  Earth 

Uzziel        

301  I'1  (Roberts) 

cf  Astronomy  

300''  (Maunder) 

cf  -Vzarel 

342a 

Vav 

I'VW"  (Roberts) 

cf  Waw  

3075b 

cf  Oziel 

2206b 

Vedan  

304(i''  (Fulton) 

Vegetable  Eoods 

112  11'  (Eager) 

Vagabond    

3044" 

Vegetables 

Vaheb 

30  II'1 

cf  Meals  

2014-  (Eager) 

cf  Suphah  
V-iil 

28711'  (living) 

Vehement,  Vehement  ly  . 
Veil 

304(i''  (W.  L.  Walker) 
3047"  (East  on) 

cf  Veil  
Vain 

3047"  (Caldecott) 
304  4!l 

cf  Dress  
cf  Marriage  

S75b  (Eager) 
199()b  (Eager) 

cf  Van  it  v  .  . 

304.-)''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Muffler.  . 

2093'' 

GENERAL  INDEX 


3397 


Veil  (Vail; ....  ...  3047- 

cf  Tabernacle 28871'  (Caldecott;   Orr) 

cf  Temple.  .  .  .  .  .2930-  (Caldecott ;   Orr; 

Vein 3047'' 

Vengeance 

cf  Avenge 340-  (Breslieh) 

cf  God 1272>>  (Breslich) 

cf  Retribution 2570-  (M'Caig) 

cf  Revenge 2587-  (Breslichj 

Venison 304  71' 

Verdigris 

cf  Scum 27()(i l 

Verily,  Verity 30471'  (\\ .  L.  Walker) 

Vermilion 

cf  Colors <>74b  (Patch) 

Version,  The  Old  Latin.  .  1841-  (Xicol) 

Versions 

cf    American     Revised 

Version 1  !<)"  (Easton) 

cf  Arabic  Versions.  .  .  .221:l  (Weir) 
cf  Armenian  Versions. . 249b  (Tisdall) 
cf  Coptic  Versions.  .  .  .70S1'  (Tisdall) 
cf  English  Versions.  .  .945''  (Hutchison) 
cf  Ethiopic  Versions. .  .  103U"  (Weir) 
cf  Latin  Version,  The 

Old 1841-  (Xicol) 

cf  Manuscripts 1984-  (Richardson) 

cf  Septuagint 2722:i  (Thackeray) 

cf  Syriac  Versions 28831'  (Xicol) 

cf  Targum 2910-  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Text  and  MRS  of  the 

XT 2950b  (Sitterly) 

cf  Text  of  the  OT 29f>71>  (Weir) 

cf  Vulgate 3058''  (Angus) 

V  e  r  s  i  o  n  s,  G  e  o  r  g  i  a  n, 

Gothic,  Slavonic 3048-  (Easton) 

cf  Armenian  Versions.  249b  (Tisdall) 

cf  Septuagint 2722:i  (Thackeray) 

Very 3048''  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Vessel 3049"  (Easton) 

cf  Potter 24231'  (Patch) 

Vestments 

cf  Dress 875''  (Eager) 

Vestry 3049- 

Vex,  Vexation 3049-  (W.  L.  Walker) 

Vial 3049- 

Vicarious  Expiation 

cf  Sacrifice,  OT 2050-  (Reeve) 

Vice,  Unnatural 748-  (Hirsch) 

Victuals 

cf  Food 1121b  (Eager) 

Vile,  Villany 3049-  (W.  Evans) 

Village 3049b  (Christie) 

cf  City <>(>2-  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Havvoth-jair 1345a  (Ewing) 

cf  Hazar-addar 1346b  (Ewing) 

cf  Hazor 1347b  (Ewing) 

cf  Town 3001-  (Christie) 

Villany 

cf  Vile 3049-  (W.  Evans) 

Vine 3049b  (Masterman) 

cf  Agriculture 78a  (Patch) 

cf  Eshcol  (place) 997'1  (Masterrnan) 


. 1293" 
.3050" 
.24.38'' 

.282 11'  (Masterman) 
.2830'-  (Masterman) 
.3051-  (Easton) 
.2153- (Patch) 


Vine — continual 

cf  Grapes,  Wild 

Hebrew  words 

cf  Press .  . 

cf  Sodom,  Vine  of. 

cf  Sorek,  Valley  of . 
Vinegar 

cf  Xitre 

Vineyard 

cf  Vine 3049b  (Masterman) 

Vineyards,     Meadow     of 

the 

cf  Abel-cheramim -V1 

cf  Meadow 2013-  (Day) 

Vintage 

cf  Vine 3()49b  (Masterman) 

Viol 3051- 

cf  Music 2094''  (Millar) 

Violence,  Violent 3051-  (Easton) 

Viper 3051'' 

cf  Serpent 2730-  (Day) 

Virgin,  Virginity 3051''  (Easton) 

cf  Immanuel 14571'  (A.  W.  Evans) 

cf  Maid,  Maiden 19G7b  (Pollard) 

cf  Virgin-birth  of  Jesus 

Christ 3052-  (Sweet  j 

Virgin-birth       of      Jesus 

Christ 3052-  (Sweet) 

Apostles'  Creed 3057- 

Critical  question 30531' 

Discrepancies,  Biblical  3054- 

Doctrinal  question. .  .  .  3055" 

cf  Genealogy  of  Jesus 

Christ,  The 1196"  (Sweet) 

Historical  question. .  .  .3052b 

cf  Immaculate  Concep- 
tion  1456b  (Sweet) 

cf  Immanuel 1457b  (A.  W.  Evans) 

cf  Innocents,  Massacre 

of  the 1471-  (Sweet) 

«f  Jesus  Christ K)30b;    K>33b  (Orr) 

cf  Luke,  Gospel  of.  ...  19381'  (A.  T.  Robertson) 

cf    Mary,     Mother    of 

Christ 200 lb  (Sweet) 

Objections 3056b;   1(533''  (Orr) 

cf  Quotations,  XT        .2518''  (Sweet  ) 

Sources  of  documents .  3054b 

Textual  question 3052- 

cf  Virgin 3051b  (Easton) 

Virgins,  Foolish 

cf  Marriage 199Sb  (Eager) 

Virgin's  Fountain 

cf  Jerusalem 15971'  (Masterman) 

Virtue 3057-  (Edwards) 

Vision 3057b  (Stuart) 

Vision,  Valley  of 3045b 

Visitation 3058-  (Edwards) 

cf  Punishments 2505b  (Hirsch) 

Vocation 

cf  Calling 545''  (Trever ) 

Voice 

cf  Bath  Kol.  .  .  .415''  (Van  Pelt) 


3398 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Void 3058" 

cf  Open  Place 2196b 

Volition 3085a 

Volume 3058a 

cf  Roll 2597* 

Voluntary 3058a 

Vophsi 3058a 

Vow 3058a 

cf  Jephthah 1587" 

cf  Nazirite 2124a 

cf  Oath 2172b 

Voyage    and    Shipwreck 
of  St.  Paul 
cf  Paul,  the  Apostle.  .2264b 

cf  Phoenix 2391a 

Vulgate 3058b 

Jerome's  work 3060a 

Later  history 3061a 

cf  Latin 1840b 

cf  Latin  Version,  The 

Old 1841a 

Name  and  history ....  305Sb 

Origin 3059b 

cf  Septuagint 2727b 

Vulture..  ..30G2b 


(Easton) 

(W.  L.  Walker) 

(Richardson) 


(Levertoff) 

(Schenk) 

(Christie) 

(Levertoff) 


(A.  T.  Robertsom 

(Caldcr) 

(Angus);  462"  (Orr) 


(A.  T.  Robertson) 
(Nicol) 


(Thackeray) 
(Stratton-Porter) 


Wafer 

cf  Bread 514b  (Eager) 

Wages 30G3a  (Raffety) 

Wagon,  Waggon 

cf  Cart 581"  (Patch) 

Wail,  Wailing 

cf  Burial 529a  (Eager) 

Wait 30G3b  (A.  W.  Evans) 

Walk 3064a  (Miller) 

Wall 

cf  Architecture 234a  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  City 662a  i^A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Fortification 1137b  (Nicol) 

cf  House 1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Jerusalem 1602b  (Masterman) 

cf  Village 3049b  (Christie) 

Wallet 

cf  Scrip 27051' 

Wandering  Stars 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

Wanderings  of  Israel ....  3064a  (Conder) 

Arabah 3065a 

cf  Alush 112b 

Difficulties 3065b 

Exodus 3066h;  3069b 

Final  journey 3068b 

First  journey 30G6a 

cf  Haradah 1337a 

cf  Hashmonah 1342a 

cf  Hazeroth 1347b 

cf  Hittites 1395b  (Conder) 

cf  Hor-haggidgad 1421b 

cf  Kadesh-barnea 1788b  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Kehelathah 1791a 

cf  Libnah 1881b  (Masterman) 

cf  Makheloth .  .          ..1969a 


Wanderings  of  Israel — continued 

cf  Marah 1984b 

cf  Moseroth 2083b 

cf  Moses 2088"  (Kyle) 

cf  Numbers,  Book  of.  .21G3a  (Whitelaw) 

cf  Oboth 2177b 

cf  Punon 2506" 

Regions  included 30G4b 

cf  Rimmon-perez 2594" 

cf  Rissah 2594b 

cf  Rithmah 2595" 

cf  Shopher 27G3" 

cf  Shur 2782"  (Conder) 

Sinai  and  Kadesh 3067" 

cf  Sinai 2802b  (Conder) 

cf  Terah 2949" 

Thirty-eight  years.  .  .  .3068" 
War,  Warfare 3069b  (Nicol) 

cf  Army 254b  (Nicol) 

cf  Fortification 11371'  (Nicol) 

cf  Fray 1145" 

NT  references 307  lb 

Operations  of 3070" 

cf  Praetorian  Guard.  .2427''  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Rearward 25341' 

Treaties  of  peace 3071b 

cf  Treaty 3008b  (Nicol) 

Ward 3072"  (Easton) 

cf  Watch 3074"  (Porter) 

Wares 3072"  (Raffety) 

cf  Fairs H)S7b 

cf  Merchandise 2035"  (Raffety) 

Warfare 

cf  War,  Warfare 30G91'  (Xirol) 

War,  Man  of 3072" 

cf  God,  Names  of 12G4b  (Mack) 

cf  Lord  of  Hosts 1919" 

Warning  Stone 

cf     Partition,     Middle 

Wall  of 22531'  (Rutherfurd) 

Warp 3072" 

cf  Weaving 3077"  (Patch) 

Wars  (jf  Jehovah,  Book  of 

the 

cf  Bible,  The 459b  (Orr) 

Wash,  Washing 3072h  (Ka.ston) 

cfSoap 2S20b  (Patch) 

Washing  of  Feet 3072b  (Anderson) 

According  to  belief  of 
Church  of  the  Breth- 
ren  3073"  (Kurtz) 

c  f   Lord's    Supper 

(Dunkers) 1928b  (Kurtz) 

Washpot 3073b 

Wasp 

cf  Hornet 1422b  (Day) 

Watch 3074a  (Porter) 

cf  Midnight 2050a  (Porter) 

cf  Morning-watcli 2083a 

cf  Night-watch 2145a 

cf  Ward 3072"  (Easton) 

Watcher.  .  3074"  (Christie) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


3399 


Watchman  

.3074"  (Christie) 

cf  Gardener  

.1175a 

Watch-tower  

.3074- 

cf  Fortification  

.  1  137b  (Nicol) 

cf  Mizpah,  Mizpch  .  . 

.2068"  (Ewing) 

Water  

3074*  (Jov) 

cf  Cistern  

057b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Fountain  

.1141b(Day) 

cf  Pit  

.2401b  (T.  Lewis) 

cf  Pool  

.2419b  (Dav) 

cf  Well  

.3081*  (Dav) 

Water  of  Bitterness 

cf  Adultery  

63a  (Margolis) 

cf  Heifer,  Red  

.  13G7b  (Easton) 

Water  of  Jealousy 

cf  Adultery  

63*  (Margolis) 

Water  of  Separation 

cf  Defilement  

S18*  (Crannell) 

cf  Separation  .  .  . 

.2721b 

cf  Uncleanncss  

.3035b  (Williams) 

Water  of  Uncleanness 

cf  Defilement  

.818"  (Crannell) 

cf  Separation  

.27211' 

cf  Uncleanness  

.  3035b  (Williams) 

Watercourse  

,3074b  (Day) 

cf  Brook  

.523b(Day) 

cf  River  

.259.5*  (Dav) 

cf  Stream  

.2SG6b  (Day) 

cf  Waterfall  

.3074b 

Waterfall  

.3074b 

cf  Watercourse  

.3074b  (Day) 

cf  Waterspout  

.3075-  (Day) 

Waterpot  

.3075* 

Waters  

.3075"  (Day) 

Waters  of  Mcrom  

.2037*  (Wright) 

Waters  of  Strife 

cf  Massah   and    Mer 

bah  

.2007*  (Ewing) 

Waterspout  

.3075a  (Day) 

cf  Dragon  

.873*  (Day) 

cf  Sea-monster  ...... 

.2707*  (Day) 

cf  Waterfall  

.3074'- 

Wave  Offering 

cf  Sacrifice  in  the  OT. 

2638*  (Reeve) 

Waw  

.3075b 

cf  Alphabet  

.  103b  (Richardson) 

Wax  

.3075b 

cf  Writing  

.3114*  (Richardson) 

Way  

.3075b  (Morro) 

cf  Path,  Pathway.  .  .  . 

.2203*  (Edwards) 

Way,  Covered  

.733*  (Hirsch) 

Wav,  Little  

.3070* 

Wayfaring  Man  

.3076* 

Waymark  

.3076* 

Wealth,  Wealthy  

.3076*  (W.  Evans) 

cf  Riches  

.2590b  (Forrester) 

Wean  

.3076b  (Easton) 

Weapons 

cf  Armor,  Arms  

.251*  (Nicol) 

Weasel  

.  3076b  (Day) 

cf  Lizard  

.  1906*  (Day) 

cf  Mole  

.2074*  (Day) 

Weather 3077*  (Joy) 

Weaving 3077*  (Patch; 

cf  Agriculture 78*  (Patch) 

cf  Camel's  Hair.  .        .  .548*  (Patch ) 
cf  Goatskins.  .             .  .  12191' 
of  Hair.  .                        .  .1320*  (Lucring) 
cf  Silk,  Silkworm  .  .     .  .2790b  (Day) 
cf  Tent.  .                       .  ,2947b  (Patch) 
cf  Warp 3072' 

Web 

cf  Spider 2840'*  (Day; 

cf  Weaving 3077*  (Patch) 

Wedding 

cf  Marriage 199G1'  (Eager) 

Wedge  of  Gold 3078b  (Porter) 

cf  Money 2076*  (Porter) 

cf  Pound 24201'  (Porter) 

Weeds 307S1' 

cf  Cockle 672b  (Masterman) 

cf  Flag 1117'' 

cf  Red  Sea 2538>>  (Wright) 

Week 307Sb 

cf  Astrology 295b  (Maunder) 

cf  Astronomy 300b  (Maunder) 

cf  Time 2981b  (Porter) 

Weeks,  Feast  of 

cf  Pentecost 2318*  (Dosker) 

Weeks,  Seventy 2744*  (Orr) 

Weeping 

cf  Burial 529*  (Eager) 

Weight 3079*  (Porter) 

cf  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures  3079*  (Porter) 

Weights  and  Measures .  .  3079*  (Porter) 

cf  Fathom 1101b 

cf  Finger  (measure) .  .  .  llll1' 

cf  Firkin 1113* 

cf  Ilandbrcadth 1334b 

cf  llin 1393* 

cf  Homer 1418* 

cf  Kab 1788* 

cf  Lethech 18G8b 

cf  Line 1894*  (Orr) 

Linear  measures 30791' 

cf  Log 1910* 

cf  Manch  (Mina) 1981*  (Porter) 

Measures  of  capacity. .  30S()b 

cf  Measuring  Line.  .  .  .2016*  (Porter) 

cf  Mile 2051b 

cf  Money 2076*  (Porter) 

cf  Omer 2188b 

cf  Pound.  .  .  .2420''  (Porter) 


cf  Reed,  Measuring .  .  .  2545a 

cf  Sabbath  Day's  Jour- 
ney  2634*  (Porter) 

cf  Seah 2708" 

cf  Shekel 2758*  (Porter) 

cf  Shekel  of  the  King's 
Weight,  or  Royal 
Shekel .  .  2758b 

Weights  ..3080* 


:;ioo 


GEXERAL  IXDEX 


Well               

30X1"         ('Dav);           r>.~>X'>       Wild  Beast 

30«S4a  (Day) 

cf  Cistern  

(A.  C.  Dickie 
(>57b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 

cf  Jackal  

.      1548a  (Dav) 

Wild-ox 

30S4b  (Dav) 

cf  Fountain  
cf  Pit  
cf  Pool  
cf  Water  

1141b  (Day) 
2-K)lb  (T.  Lewis  i 
2419b  (Day) 
3074"  (Joy 
3082" 

cf  Antelope  

.  .  .143b  (Dav) 

cf  Cattle 

583b  (Day) 

Wilderness 
cf  Desert 

83  lb  (Dav) 

cf  Wellspring.  .  .  . 

Well  of  I  Lire*  1  
cf  Gilhoa,  Mount 
Well,  Jacob's  
Wcllspring    

13401'  (Ewiug) 
12291'  (Ewing) 
1  ;">56b  (Ewing) 
30S2" 

cf  Xegeh  
cf  Wanderings    of 
rael  
Wilderness  of  Paran.  . 
Will 
cf  Providence  
cf  Testament  
Will,  Volition  
'U  ill-worship 

.    .2  130"  (Masterman) 
1s- 
.  .301)4"  (Conder) 
.  .  .2247"  (Ewing) 

.  .  .2482"  (Tillett  ) 
.  .  29.r)0" 
.  .  .308o-  (W.  L.  Walkei 
.  .  3()85b 
507b  (Masterman) 

cf  Well      

30X1"  (Dav  ) 

Wen 

.  30X2" 

Wench  30X2" 
Wesley,  John 
Doctrine  of  sanetifica- 
tion  2(>8.">b  (Steele) 
West                                        30X2"  (\):i,\-} 

Willow  

Willow  Tree  .  . 

.  .  .  308ob 

Whale 

.30X2"  (Dav) 

Willows  
Willows,  Brook  of  the 
cf  Brook 
cf  Zered 

.  .308,r)b  (Masterman) 
.  .  30S5b 
.  ,r,23b  (Day) 
3147-1  (Ewing) 

cf  Dragon  

X73"  (Dav) 

cf  Fish 

1114b  (Dav) 

cf  Jackal.  . 
cf  Sea-monster  .  . 

Wheat 

1  .1  IS"  (Day) 
2707"  (Day) 

30S21'  (Masterman) 

Wimple  
cf  Dress  
Wind  
cf  Whirlwind  
Window 
cf  House  
Windows  of  Heaven 
cf  Astronomy  

.  .  30S.-)b 
.  .875b  (Eager) 
.  .  30S.-)b  (Joy) 
.  .3083"  (Joy) 

.  .  1434b  (A.  C.  Dickie) 
.  .300''  (Maunder) 

cf  Corn 

720h  (Masterman) 

cf  Food  
Wheel 

1122"  (Eager) 

30X2b  (East  on) 

cf  Agriculture  .  .  . 
cf  Course  

.  ,75b  (Patch) 

724b  (Ileidel) 

cf  Potter 

2423b  (Patch) 

Whelp 

.  .      .3083"  (Dav) 

Wine,  Wine  Press.  .  . 
cf  Blood. 

.  .30S(i"  ilviston) 
488b  (Clij)pinger) 

cf  Dragon  

873"  (Dav) 

cf  Lion  
Whirlwind 

1895"  (Day) 
.  .    .  3083"  (Jov) 

cf  Crafts 

734"  (Patch) 

cf  Drink,  Strong.  .  . 
cf  Drunkenness.  .  .  . 
cf  Feasts  and  Fasts 
cf  Flagon  

.  .  S79b  (Edwards) 
.  .  S80b  (Edwards) 
.  .1103"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 
.  .1117h  (Hovev) 

cf  Wind 

30X.V1  (Jov) 

White 
of  Colors        .... 

6741'  (Patch) 

1424° 

3083b 

cf  Food  

.  ,1121b  (Eager) 

•'(IX'-i"  (C)rr\ 

cf  Cnth  

.  .1177"  (Porter) 

cf  Untempered  .  . 
Whole,  Wholesome 
Whore,  Whoredom 

.  .3()3Sb  (Patch) 
.  .3083''  (Easton) 

7  l">h  (HitxcM 

cf  Honev 

1418b  (Patch) 

cf  Liquor 

1896" 

cf  Lord's  Supper. 

192o"  (Dosker) 

cf  Press  

.  .2438b 

cf  Harlot 

133()b  (laager) 

cf  Sacrifice  (OT)  .  . 

.  .  2038"  (Reeve) 

cf  Punishments 

2.")()4b  (Hirsch) 

cf  Sickle  
cf  Spice,  Spices.  .  .  . 

.  .2784"  (Patch) 
.  .2840"  (Masterman) 

">()83b  (Dungan) 

cf  Sin  

.  ,279Xb  (McConnell) 
3084"  (F'i"'er 

cf  Trade 

3002"  (Easton) 

Use  of  wine  

.  .30S7b 

cf      Literature, 

Sub- 

1  S()(ib  (Cowan) 

cf  Vine                .    .  . 

.  .3049b  (Masterman) 

Wine-making  

.  .30S6b 

cf  Woman  
Wife 

cf  Family  

.  .  .3103''  (Pratt) 

1094b  (Caverno) 
1996b  (Eager) 

cf  Wine-skins 

3088"  (Christie) 

Winebibber          

.  .  3088" 
.  .  73Gb  (Patch) 

Winefat,  Winevat 

cf  Craft  s           

cf  Relationships, 

iiy  

Wife,  Brother's 
cf  Marriage  
cf  Relationships, 
ilv  .  . 

Fam- 

.  .  2r>54"  (X.  and  E.  D.  Isaacs) 

199(i1'  (Eager! 
Fain- 
.  .  2oo4"  (X.  ::    d  E.  D.  Isaacs  ) 

cf  Vine 

3049h  (Masterman) 

cf  Wine 

3086"  (Easton) 

Wine;  Press                  .  . 

.  .3086"  (Easton) 

cf  /Agriculture 

78"  (Patch) 

cf  Crafts 

.736b  (Patch) 

cf  Oil.  . 

.  .2181b  (Patch) 

GENERAL  INDEX 


3401 


Wine  Press  —  contin  ncd 
Terms  used  
cf  Vine  
cf  Wine  
Wine-skins  
of  Wine               

3086" 

30491'  (Masterman) 
30X0"  (Easton) 
30XX"  (Christ  ie) 
30X0"  (Easton) 

7301'  (Patch) 
30491'  (Masterman) 
30X0"  (Easton) 
30XX1'  (Stratton-Porter) 
30X81'  (A.  W.  Evans) 

77''  (Patch) 
1097b  (Patch) 
297~)1>  (Patch; 
30S9a 
27  10'-  (Joy) 
30X9" 
2X70" 
30X9"  (Easton) 
000"  (Petrie) 
1124"  (W.  L.  Walker) 
3089b 

Witch,  Witchcraft  
Biblical  usage  

.3097"  (T.  W.  Davies; 
3097" 
XOO"  (T.  W.  Davies  i 
944"  (Orr) 
1091"  (Pollard; 
3097b 
1903"  (T.  W.  Davies) 

30981' 
30401' 

3097"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
.3098b  (A.  W.  Evans) 
.309Xb  (Masterman; 
3099"  (LevertofT; 

cf  Divinat  ion 

cf  Eridor,  Witch  of. 
cf  Familiar  
Magic'.  . 
cf  Magic  .  . 
Spread     and     persecii 
t  ion  
cf  Vault  
Witchcraft 
cf  Witch,  Witchcraft  . 
Withered  
Withes,  Withs,  (ireen.  . 
\\  it  ness 

Winevat 

cf  Crafts 

cf  Vine 

cf  Wine  
Wings  
Wink                 

Winnowing 
cf  Agriculture  

cf  Fun  

cf  Threshing          

\\'itness  of  (lie  Spirit  .  .  . 
Witnessing,  False  
Witty 
cf  Wist,  Witty,  Wot  . 
Wizard 
cf  Astrology  
cf  Divination  

.3099"  (Dunelni) 
.  74X"  (Hirsch; 

.309!ib  (Easton; 

.295b  (Maunder) 
XOO"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
.1094"  (Pollard) 
1903"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
.3097"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
3099b  (Day) 
loll"  (Day) 

Winter                        

cf  Seasons  
Winter-house  
cf  Summer-house 

Wisdom          

cf  Egypt  .  .  . 
cf  Fool,  Folly  

History  

cf  M-i'-'ic 

Ideals  30901' 
cf  Light  lX90b  (Pratt) 
cf  Logos  191  11'  (Alexander) 
cf  Mediation,  Mediator  2021"  (Edwards) 
XT  ideas  3001- 

cf  Witch,  Witchcraft. 
Wolf 

cf  Island 

cf  Jackal 

.  1548"  (Day) 
3000"  (M.  O.  Evans) 
3100"  (Pratt) 
49b  (Gcnung) 
144b  (Marais) 

cf  Philo  Judaeus. 

23X0"  (Wenley) 
23X4''  (Rees) 
2472b  (Genung) 
24XGb  (W.  L.  Walker) 
3092"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
3092" 

2X001'  (T.  W.  Davies; 

2413b  (T.  W.  Davies) 
2XOOb  (T.  W.  Davies) 
30X9"  (Easton) 

3092"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
3095° 

30921' 
3095b 

3()9i>" 
19  1  11'  (Alexander) 
3092b 
2X()Ob  (T.  W.  Davies) 
3093b 
3093b 
3089"  (Easton) 

30X9"  (Easton) 
3090b  (Easton) 
29ob  (Maunder) 
XOO"  (T.  W.  Davies) 
1902"  (Tisdall) 
309Gb  (A.  W.  Evans) 
3090b  CEaston) 

Woman  .                

cf  Philosophy  
cf  Proverbs,  Book  of  . 
cf  Prudence  
cf  Wisdom  of  Solomon 
Wisdom  of  God          .  -  . 

cf   Vdam  in  OT 

cf  \nthropologv 

Creative  plan 

3100a 

cf  Deaconess 

XOO"  (Heidel) 

Later  times 

.3103b 

Wisdom  of  Jesus 
cf  Sirach,  Book  of  ... 
Wisdom  Literature 
cf  Poetry,  Hebrew  .  .  . 
cf  Sirach,  Book  of  ... 
cf  Wisdom  
Wisdom   of   Solomon 
The    

cf  Male 

.  1971b  (Luering) 

cf  Marriage 

199Gb  (Eager) 

XT  ideas                .... 

.3102'' 

OT  ideas          

.3100b 

cf  Polygamy  2410"  (Cavcrno) 
cf  Susanna,  History  of.2X72b  (T.  W.  Davies) 
cf  Widow                           .30X4"  (EaLrer) 

Wonder,  Wonderful.  .  .  . 

Wood 
cf  Botany  
cf  Forest  
Wood  of  Ephraim 
cf  Ephraim,  Forest  of 
Woof  
cf  Warp 

.3104b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

.50.")"  (Masterman) 
.1132"  (Masterman) 

963b 

.3104'' 
.  3072" 

Aim  and  author  
Canonicity    and    con 
tents.         

Date  
Language  and  versions 
cf  Logos  
Name 

cf  Sirach,  Book  of  ... 

Wool  

.3104''  (Patch) 

Unity  mid  integrity.  . 

cf  Fuller  
cf  Tanner  

.IMS"  (Patch) 
.2908b  (Patch) 

Wise  Man 
cf  Wisdom  
Wise-Men 

Word 

.3105"  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Logos  
cf  Person  of  Christ.  .  . 
cf  Speech  

.19  II1'  (Alexander) 
.233X"  (Warfield) 
.2X391'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Astrology  
cf  Divination  
cf  Magi,  The  
Wish 

Work   Works 

.31  Of>b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

cf  Justification    

.  17X21'  (Faulkner) 

cf  Labor  

.1X19''  (Orr) 

Wi«<     Wittv    Wot 

Worker.  . 

.3105b  (W.  L.  Walker) 

3402 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Workfellow    

310ob  (W.  L.  Walker) 
310f>b  (W.  L.  Walker) 
3100"  (Or) 
144b  (Marais) 

30Sh  (Rogers) 
3107" 
738"  (J.  Lindsay) 
10431'  (Zenos) 
3106a 

979'-  (Vos) 
13f>3"  (Vo«) 
31  OS1'  (Dunelm) 
13521'  (Orr) 
1704"  (Law) 
3109"  (Day) 
674b  (Patch) 
20911'  (Dav) 
31091'  (Mastermaii) 
3110"  (Orr) 
30()b  (Maunder) 
3110"  (Crannell) 
106b  Opener) 
1301"  (Fairbanks) 
3111" 
1390"  (Easton) 
3110b 
22:>0"  (N.  Isaacs) 
2429"  (Lambert) 
20S61'  (Wiener) 
2SS71'  (Caldecott;    Orr) 
2930"  (Caldecott;   Orr) 

Writing  —  continued 
Instruments  

.  .  .3119" 

World  (Cosmological)  .  . 

cf  Josiah 

.  1753a  (Genung) 

cf  Libraries  

.  .  .  1882a  (Richardson) 

cf   Babylonia  and  As 
syria,  Religion  of  .  . 
Cosmogony  of  Gen  1. 
cf  Great  ion  
cf  Evolution 

cf  Manuscripts  .... 
Materials 

.  .  .  1984a  (Richardson) 
3119b 

Alethods 

3118b 

cf  Money  
cf     Nineveh,     Libr 
of 

.  .  .2076"  (Porter) 
ary 

.21f)lb  (Sayce) 

Hebrew  ideas  
World,  End  of  the 
cf  Eschatology  of  NT. 
cf  Heavens,  Now  .... 
World  (general)  
cf  Heavenly  

cf  Ostraca  
cf  Palestine 

.  .  .2202b  (Goodspeed) 
2216b  (Condor) 

cf  Papyrus  
cf  Parchments  
of  Pen 

.  .2242b  (Goodspeed) 
.  .  .2248a  (Rutherfurd) 
.  .  .2297b  (Patch) 
iri- 
.  .  .23131'  (J.  E.  H.  Thomson) 

cf  Johannine  Theology 
Worm,  Scarlet-worm..  . 
cf  Colors  

cf  Pentateuch,  Sam 
tan      

Picture  writinir 

3117" 

cf  Moth      

2455"  (Richardson) 

•Wormwood  

cf  Roll 

2597"  (Richardson) 

Wormwood,  The  Star.  . 
cf  Astronomy  

ef  Septuagint  

.  .  .2722"  (Thackeray) 
2773b  (Pinches) 

Worship  
cf  Altar  

Symbols.              .  .  . 

.  .  .3115" 

cf  T'iblct 

°900"  (Richardson) 

cf  In  Ancient  Greece. 
Christian  worship.  .  .  . 
cf  High  Place  

of  Text  of  theOT. 

.    .29571'  (Weir) 

cf  Wax   

.  .  .  3075b 

Writers 

3123" 

OT  worship  
cf  Passover 

Wycliffe,  John  

.  .  .946b  (Hutchison) 

Xanthicus 

3126" 

cf  Praise              

cf  Sanctuary      

cf  Calendar            .  . 

.  .541b  (Porter) 

cf  Tabernacle 

cf  Time  
cf  Year 

.  .  .2981b  (Port(>r) 
.  .  .3126" 

Terms                 

.3110" 

.299.V1  (Easton) 

14.12"  (Coboni) 

3110"  (Crannell) 
3113" 

.  30961'  (Easton) 
.3113"  (\\'.  Evans) 

Xerxes        

.  .  .3126"  (Easton) 

cf  Tongues,  Gift  of.  .  . 
Worship,  Image 

cf  Images                    .  . 

cf   Vhasuerus. 

.  .  ..SO1'  (R.  D.  Wilson) 

cf  Persians  

Yarn 
cf  Linen  

.  ,2336b  (Tisdall) 
.  .  .  1894"  (E.  D.  Isaacs) 

Worshipper 

cf  Worship                  .  . 

Wot 

cf  Wist,  Witty,  Wot. 
Wrath  (Anger)  

cf  Spinning  
cf  Weaving         .  .  . 

.  .  .2841"  (Patch) 
.  .  .3077"  (Patch) 

Yea 

.3126"  (Hirsch) 

cf  Fury  

1150b 

1844"  (M'Caig) 

.20.30"  (M'Caig) 

Year 

3126a 

cf  Law  in  NT 

cf  Astronomy  
cf  Time 

.  .  .300b  (Maunder) 

.  .  .2982"  (Porter) 

cf  Reconcile,  Reconcil 

iation  

OT  lib 

cf  Retribution.          .  . 

.2r>70"  (M'Caig) 
.3113b  (Gerberding) 

^  ears,  Seventy  
Yellow 

fi7_lt>   fP-itcM 

Wrest  

Wrestling 
cf  Games 

110Sb  (Smith) 

Yodh 

.  .  .3126" 

cf  Vphabot 

.  .  103b  (Richardson) 

cf  Jacob 

.  i:>49"  (Boyd) 
.2118b  (Ewing) 
.3114* 
.3114a    (Richardson);    103b 

cf  Jod 

.  .  .  1688" 

cf  Naphtali  
Wrinkle 

cf  Tittle   

.  .  .  29881' 

Yoke 

.  .3126''  (Easton) 

Writing        

cf  Unequal  
cf  Yoke-fellow 

.  .  .3037b 
.  .3127"  (Rutherfurd) 

cf  Alphabet  
cf  Book 

(Richardson) 
.  106"  (Richardson) 
49ob  (Richardson) 

Yoke-fellow  

.  .  .3127"  (Rutherfurd) 

Definition  
Forms 

.3114a 

.3122" 
.3124" 
1409"  (Richardson) 

cf  Syntyche  
cf  Synzygus  . 
cf  Yoke  

.  .  .2880"  (Rutherfurd) 
.  .  .2880" 
.  .  .3126b  (Easton) 

cf  Ink 

Young  Men  

.  .  .3127'-  (W.  L.  W'alker) 

<>f  Tnk'-lmrn 

I4f>rtb  CT?icli!i.rHsi 

Yoiinir  Women  .  . 

.  .31271'  (W.  L.  Walker) 

GENERAL  INDEX 


340:5 


Zaanairn 

cf  Zaanannim  .  .  .  .3128"  (Ewing) 

Zaanan 3128" 

Zaanannim,  Plain  or  Oak 

of 3128a  (Ewing) 

Zaavan 3128" 

Zabad 3128"  (Roberts) 

cf  Nathan 2121-  (Roberts) 

cf  Sabanneus  (Apoc)  .  .2G29b 
cf  Sabathus  (Apoc) .  .  .  2fi29b 

Zabadacans 312S1'  (Easton) 

Zabadaias 

cf  Zabadcas 3128'' 

Zabadeas 3128" 

Zabbai 3128" 

Zabbud 3128" 

cfZaccur 3129-  (Roberts) 

Zabdeus 3128" 

cf  Zcbadiah 3133b  (Roberts) 

Zabdi 3128"  (Roberts) 

cf  Zichri 3149a  (Roberts) 

cf  Ziniri 3149''  (Roberts) 

Zabdiel 3128b 

cf  Zcbadiah 3133"  (Roberts) 

Zabud 3128b  (Roberts) 

cf  Priests  and  Levitcs.2446b  (Wiener) 

cf  Rhebna 2753b  (Roberts) 

cf  Zaccur 3129-  (Roberts) 

Zubulon 3129" 

Zaccai 

cf  Zabbai 3128" 

Zacchaeus 3129-  (Kerr) 

Zacchur 

cf  Zaccur 3129"  (Roberts) 

Zaccur 3129a  (Roberts) 

cf  Zabbud 3128b 

cf  Zabud 3128"  (Roberts) 

cf  Zechariah  (general)  .3135b  (Easton) 

Zachariah 3129" 

cf  Bercchiah 439b 

cf  Jerusalem  Tombs. .  .  lGllb  (Masterman) 
cf  Zechariah  (general)  .3135"  (Easton) 

Zacharias 3129b      (Angus) ;       3 1 2<)> 

(Easton) 

cf  Abijah 10"  (Bccchcr) 

cf  Temple 2930"  (Caldccott ;   ( )rrj 

cf  Zaraias 3132" 

Zachary 3129" 

Zachcr 

cf  Zecher 3140" 

Zadok 3129"       (Whitelaw) ;        x< 

(Beecher) 

Chronicles 3130" 

Critical  views 3131a 

cf  Ithamar 1543"  (Whitelaw) 

cf  Priests  and  Levit.es.  2446b  (Wiener; 

cf  Sadduk 2661" 

In  Samuel  and  Kings.. 3130" 

Zaham 3131b 

Zain 

cf  Zayin 3133" 

Zair..  ...3131b 


Zalaph.  .3131" 

Zalmon.  .  .3131"  (Ewing  j 

cf  Ilai .1449- 

cf  Salmon,  Sahna 2663"  (S.  K.  Hunter) 

Zalmonah..  .3131" 

cf    Wanderings    of    Is- 
rael  3064"  (Cornier) 

Zalmunna 

cfZebahandZalmunna3133b  (Roberts) 

Zambia  (Zambrij 3131" 

Zambri.  3131" 

Zamoth...  3131" 

cf  Zathui 3133" 

Zamzummim 3132" 

cf  Rephaim 2559"  (Porter) 

Zanoah 3132"  (Ewing) 

Zaphenath-paneah 3132" 

cf  Joseph 1736"  (S.  E.  Hunter) 

Zaphnath-paaneah 

cf  Zaphenath-paneah.  .3132" 

Zaphon 3132-  (Ewing) 

Zara 3132" 

cf    Zerah      (the    Ethi- 
opian)  3146"  (Cobern) 

Zaraces 

cf  Zarakcs 3132" 

Zarah 

cf  Zerah  (general)  .  .  .  .3146"  (Roberts) 

Zaraias 3132' 

cf  Zacharias 3129"  (Angus) 

Zarakes 3132" 

Zardeus  (Sardeus) 3132" 

Zareah 3132" 

cf  Zorah 3157"  (Masterman) 

Zareathites 

cf  Zorathites 3157" 

Zared 3132" 

cf  Zered 3147-  (Ewing) 

Zarephath 3132"  (Ewing) 

cf  Misrephoth-maim.  .2067"  (Porter) 

cf  Sarepta 2692" 

cf  Sidon 2785"  (Porter) 

Zarctan 3132" 

cf  Zarethan 3133"  (Wright) 

Zarethan 3133"  (Wright) 

Zareth-shahar 

cf  Zereth-shahar 3147" 

Zarhites 

cf  Zerah  (general).  .  .  .3146"  (Roberts) 

cf  Zerahites 3147" 

Zartanah 3133" 

Zarthan 3133" 

cf  Zarethan 3133"  (Wright) 

Zathoes 3133" 

cf  Zattu 3133"  (Roberts) 

Zathui 3133" 

Zatthu 3133" 

cf  Zattu 3133-  (Roberts) 

Zattu 3133"  (Roberts) 

Zavan 

cf  Zaavan 3128a 


:u<)4 


GENERAL   INDEX 


Zayin 

.3133" 

cf  Alphabet    

103''  (Richardson) 

Zaza  

3133" 

Zealot,  Zealots      

3133b  (Heidel) 

cf  \ssassms 

288"  (S.  F.  Hunter) 

cf  Josephus  Flavins.  . 

.  17-12"  (Wenley) 

cf  Simon,  the  Zealot  . 

.2797''  (Kern 

Zebadiah  

.3133''  (Roberts) 

cf  Zabdeus  

,3128b 

cf  Zabdi  

.312S1'  (Roberts) 

cf  Zabdiel    . 

.312S1' 

Zebah  and  Zalmunna.  .  . 

.3133''  (Roberts) 

Zebaim 

cf    Pocheret  h-hax/i 

- 

bairn  

.2110" 

Zebedee  

.3134" 

cf  James,  S  >n  of  Zelx 

- 

dee 

1560"  (Kerr) 

cf  Salome  

.2664"  (Orr; 

cf  Zabdi  

,312sb  (Roberts) 

Zebidah 

3134"  (Roberts) 

Zebina  

.3134" 

Zeboiim  

.3134" 

cf  Siddim,  Vale  of    .  . 

.2784"  (Wright) 

Zcboim  

.3131"  (Masterman) 

cf  Hadid 

.1315'' 

cf  Xeballat  

.2126'' 

Zebudah 

cf  Zebidah  

.3131"  (Roberts) 

Zebul  

.3134b  (Roberts) 

Zebulonites 

cf  Zebuhmites  

.3135'' 

Zebulun  

.3135"  (Ewing) 

cf  Numbers,  B.>ok  of. 

.2163"  (Whitelaw 

Zebuhmites  

.3135b 

Zechariah,  Book  of  

.3136"'  (  Robin>:m 

Contents  and  analysis 

3137" 

Critical  questions.  .  .  . 

.3137'' 

Prophet,  Zechariah  .  .  . 

.3136'' 

Quest  ion  of  unity.  .  .  . 

.3139'' 

cf  Zechariah  (general  i 

.313.5''  (East  on) 

Zechariah  (general;  .... 

.3135''  (Easton; 

cf  Jahaziel  

.  15581'  (Roberts1) 

cf  Joshua  (son  of  Jehox 

- 

adak) 

1748"  (Roberts; 

Tomb  of 

236b 

cf  Zaccur  

3129'  (Roberts) 

cf  Zachariah  

.3129" 

cf  Zechariah  (king   .  . 

.3136"  (Caldecott  ) 

cf  Zechariah,  Book  of. 

3136''  (Robinson) 

cf  Zecher 

3140b 

cf  Zichri  

3149"  (Roberts) 

Zechariah   (king)  

.3136"  (Caldecott) 

cf  Chronology  of  <)T. 

.635"  (Mack) 

Zechariah,    Son    of    Bai 

- 

achiah 

cf  Jehoasli  

1576"  (Caldecott) 

Zecher  

3140b 

cf  Zechariah  (general) 

3135''  (East  on.) 

Zechrias 

3140b 

Zed  ad 

3140b  (Christie) 

Zedechias  .  . 

3141a 

of 


.573''  (Xicol) 
.31  II1' 
.31-11" 


Zedekiah  (general) 3141"  (Lees) 

Zedekiah  (king) 3141"  (Genung) 

Downfall  of  Judah. .  .  .3142b 

cf  Jehoiachin 1577"  (Genung) 

cf  Jeremiah 158Sb  (Orelli) 

cf  Pharaoh  Ilophra  .  .  .  2359b  (Nicol) 

Rebellion  and  si,' 
Jerusalem 

Reign  of 

Sources 

Zeeb 

cf  ( )reb  and  Zeeb  . 
Zela,  Zelah.  . 
Zelek  .  .  . 

Zelophehad 3143" 

Zelotes 

cf  Simon,  the  Zealot  .  .2797b  (Kerr) 

cf  Zealot,  Zealots 3133b  (Heidel) 

Ze.l/ah 3143"  (Ewing) 

Zemaraim 3143"  (lowing) 

Zemarite 3143"  (Ewing) 

Zemira  (Zemirah) 3143b 

Zemirah 31431' 

Zenan 

cf  Zaanan 312S" 

Zenas 31431' 

Zend-avcsta 

cf  Persian  .Religion..  .  .2331''  (Tisdall) 

cf  Zoroast rianism 3157"  (l^aston) 

Zephaniah  (general) 3144"  (N.  Isaacs) 

cf  Zephaniah,  Book  of  3144"  (Eiselenj 
Zephaniah,       Apocalyjise 

of.  .  .  .  .  .3114" 

Zephaniah,  Book  of 3144"  (Eiselen) 

Author 3144" 

Contents  and  integrity  3145" 

Date 311  I1' 

cf  Eschatology  of  <  >T.  972"  (Orr) 

cf  Scythians 2706"  (Porter) 

Teaching 3146" 

cf  Zephaniah  (general)  3144"  (N.  Isaacs) 
Zephath 

cf  Hormah 1422"  (Ewing) 

Zephathah,  \'alley  of.  .  .  .3146" 

Zephi,  Ze])ho 314(i"  (Roberts) 

Zephon 

cf  Zi])hion 31. 52'' 

Zephonites 31461' 

Zer 31461' 

Zerah  (general) 31461'  (Roberts) 

cf  Zohar 31.54'' 

Zerah  (The  Ethiopian) .  .3146''  (Cobern) 

cfZara 3132" 

Zerahiah 3147" 

Zerahites 3147" 

Zered 3147"  (Ewing) 

cf  Willows,  The  Brook 

of  the 30S5b 

Zerodah,  Zeredath,  Zere- 

datha,    Zererah,    Zere- 

rath 

cf  Zarethan.  .  .  .3133"  (Wright) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


Zcrcsh .  .3147" 

Zcrcth 3147'' 

Zereth-shahar 3147b 

Zcri 31471' 

cf  I/ri 1545'' 

Zeror 3147'' 

cf  Zur 3159" 

Zeruah 3147'' 

Zerubbabel 3147''  (11.  I).  Wilson) 

cf  Joshua  (sou  of  Jehoz- 

adak) 17  IS-  (.Roberts) 

cf    Sanabassar,     Sana- 

bassarus 2GS1-  (Angus  j 

cf  Temple 293G"  (Caldecott ;  ()m 

cf  Tirshatha 29SGb  (It.  D.  Wilson; 

Zeruiah 31  IS-  (Roberts) 

cf  Abigail 91'  (Mack) 

Zetham 31 48- 

Zethan 31 48" 

Zethar 3148" 

Zeus 3148-  (Angus) 

cf  Jupiter 1781-  (East  on) 

Zia 3148'' 

Ziba 314S1'  (Roberts) 

Zibcon 31481' 

Zibia 3148'' 

Zibiah 3148b 

Zichri 3149"  (Roberts) 

cf  Zabdi 3128b  (Roberts) 

cf  Zechariah  (general)  .3135*'  (East  m) 

Ziddim 3149" 

Zid-kijah 

cf  Zedekiah  (general).  .3141"  (Lees) 
Zidon,  Zidonians 

cf  Sidon,  Sidonians. .  .  .27*5"  (Porter) 
Zif 

cf  Ziv 3153" 

Ziha 3149- 

Ziklag 3149-  (Masterman) 

cf  Negeb 2130"  (Masterman) 

Zillah 3149" 

Zillethai 3149b 

Zilpah 3149b 

Zilthai 

cf  Zillethai 3149b 

Zimmah 3149b 

Zimran 3149b  (Roberts) 

cf  Totemism 3000"  (M.  O.  Evans) 

cf  Zimri  (general) 3149b  (Roberts) 

Zimri  (general) 3149b  (Roberts) 

cf  Baal-peor 34Gb  (Saycc) 

cf  Balaam 378b  (Baur) 

cf  Poor 2319b  (Ewing) 

cf  Zabdi 3128b  (Roberts) 

cf  Zimran 3149b  (Roberts) 

Zimri  (king) 3150a  (Mosiman) 

Zin 3150"  (Ewing) 

Zina 

cf  Zizah 3153a 

Zion 3150b  (Masterman) 

cf  Gezer 1224a  (Masterman) 

cf  Gihon 1228b  (Masterman) 


Zion — con  tin  tii'il 

Jebusite  city 3 ISO1' 

cf  Jerusalem  .  .  .  .1G011' 


.219G1' 
.3151'' 
.280G- 
.31521' 
.31521' 
.3152'' 


(Masterman) 
(Masterman) 


cf  Ophcl 

Prophet i<;  I'dcre 

cf  Sion 
Zior 
Ziph  (person) 

Ziph  (place) 31 521'  f.Mastennan) 

Ziphah 31521' 

Ziphim.s 

cf  Zij)h  (place) 3152b  (Masterman) 

Ziphion 3152b 

cf  Zaphon 3132"  (Ewing) 

cf  Zephonites 314G1' 

Ziphites 

cf  Zij)h  (j)lace) 31 521'  (  Masterman,, 

Ziphron 

cf  Sibraim 2783- 

Zippor 31521' 

Zipporah 31521'  (Kyle) 

cf  Shiphrah 2774- 

Zithri 

cf  Sithri 2813" 

Ziv 3153" 

cf  Calendar 5411'  (Porter) 

Ziz,  Ascent  of 3153" 

Ziza 3153- 

Zizah 3153a 

Zizath 

cf  Ziza 3153" 

Zoan 3153"  (Conder) 

cf  Goshen 1280"  (Conder) 

cf  Hittites 13951'  (Conder) 

Location 3153" 

Monumental  dat a.  .  .  .3153'' 

cf  Pithom 2401b  (Conder) 

cf  Raamses 2520"  (Conder) 

Zoar 3154"  (Wright) 

cf  Dead  Sea SOI"  (Wright) 

Zobah 3154b  (Christie) 

cf  Syria 2880b  (Christie) 

Zobebah 3154b 

Zodiac,  Signs  of 312b 

Zodiacal  Tablet 

cf     Palestine,     Recent 

Exploration 22331'  (.Cobern) 

Zohar 3154b 

cf  Zerah  (general;  .  .  .  ,314Gb  (Roberts) 

Zoheleth,  Stone  of 3155"  (Mastermanj 

Zoheth 3155" 

cf  Benzoheth 439" 

Zoology 3155"  (Day) 

cf  Gazelle 1179"  (Day) 

cf  Goat 1248b  (Day) 

cf  Jackal 1548"  (Day) 

cf  Pygarg 2511"  (Day) 

Zophah 3156b 

Zophai 3156b 

cf  Zuph 3158b  (Roberts) 

Zophar 3156b  (Genung) 

cf  Bildad 473b  (Genung) 


3401) 


GENERAL  INDEX 


1976b  (E\vin»;) 
31.")7:l 


Zophim,  Field  oi'  .......  3157a 

Zorah  .................  3157-1  (Masterman) 

Zorat  kites  .............  3157a 

Zorcah  ................  3157a 

cf  Zorah  ............  3157a  (Mastorrnun) 

Zorites  ...............  3ir>7* 

cf  Manahath  ........ 

cf  Zorathites 
Zoroaster 

cf     Persian     Laii 
and  Literature  . 
Zoroastrianism 

cf  Antichrist 

cf  Astrology 

cf  Brunch 

cf  Exorcism 

cf  Cod  ..............  12.~)0l  (Rees) 

History  .............  3ir>7b 

cf  Magi,  The  .........  inr>2»  (Tisdall) 

cf  Messiah  ...........  2039a  (Criehton) 

cf  Parousia  ........  2249:i  (East  on) 

cf      Persian      lieli^ion 

(Ancient)  ..........  233  11'  (Tisdall) 


Zoroastrianism  —  continual 

cf  Rab-mag  

.  .  2522fl  (Clippinger) 

Relation  to  Israel.  . 

.  .3157b 

cf  Resurrection.  .  .  . 

.  .25G5a  (Easton) 

cf  Salvation  

.  .2665a  (Easton) 

cf  Satan  

.  .2696a  (Sweet) 

cf  Son  of  Man  

.  .2828''  (Stalker) 

Special  features  .  .  . 

.  .31.58" 

Zorobabcl  

.  .3158b 

Zorzellcus  

..31581' 

cf  Barzillai  

.  .410''  (Rees) 

Ziuir  

.  .31.581' 

Zuph  

.  .3158b  (Roberts) 

cf  Zo])hai  

..315G1' 

Zur  

..3159a 

cf  Zeror  

..3147b 

Zuriel  

.  .3159n  (Roberts) 

Zurishadclai  

.  .3159b 

cf  God,  Names  of.  .  . 

.  .1264b  (Mack) 

cf  Zuriel  

.  .3159"  (Roberts) 

Zu/im  

.  .3ir>9'' 

Zwingli 

cf  Lord's  Supper.  .  .  . 

.  .  192()»  (Dosker) 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 

NOTK  —The  following  illustrates  the  met  hod  of  arranging  this  Index:  :515  (3)  =  reference  will  be  found  on  page  315 
near  box  heading   3.     145'-  =  right-hand  column.     148  =  left-hand   column.     10952  =  tho  reference!  is  found   twice  on 


GEX  1                                            GE.V  4  —  continued 

GE.V  11 

1  -140  (HI);  10-10;   1915 

7  —  5 

1—  2995s 

2  -3074 

8—539 

3—521;  2817b 

3—1411 

9—1887  (4) 

5—1128;  1467  (4);  1533b 

0—315  (3) 

10—489  (2);  703 

6—  1129b 

9—310  (7) 

12—1042  (2) 

7—3014  (5) 

14—302;  3108 

13—2570  (4) 

10—140 

10—  299b 

15—057  (2);  2393;  3124 

31—910  (2);  19291' 

21    -150  (5) 

19—1095  (4) 

GEX  12 

20  -49;  51  (3);  1040  (2);  1270  (1); 

23—  1823b 

1—973  (1) 

1407;  1450  (b)',  3014  (5)              21—  2504>> 

3—458  (4);    1022  (b);    1212  (2); 

27—1095  (2);  1400  (M;  1  100                                     G(,n  5 

1460  (3);  2517b;  2574 

28—145 

2—52  (0);  140  (b) 

6—2303 

31—  2G33  (3) 

24—975  (1);  1460  (II)2 

7—2019;  2642  (6) 

GK.V  2 

29—1824 

GEN  13 

2—2632  (1) 

GEN  6 

2—2076  (1) 

4—146  (b) 

1—608  (1) 

4—2642  (6) 

7—49;  973  (2)s;   9X0'';   2195  (2) 

2—145;  2835 

8—  1930b 

8—147(3) 

4—  143b;  2133b 

10—807  (1) 

9—51  (5);  420;  3009 

5—2798  (2) 

15—  2519b 

14—152 

6—2558;  3034  (1) 

GEN  14 

16—51  (4);   1463  (1);  2575  (1) 
17—51  (5);   811  (1);    1460;   2  H)8 

7—1467  (4) 
8—1460  (3) 

1—119;   126;  327  (7);  365;  550 

(10) 

9—2799  (5) 

(3);  919 

18—51  (3);  1040;  2416 

11—  722b;  2800  (8) 

3—809 

21—3100 

12—1042  (2) 

(')—  2232  (a) 

23—1095 
25—  1040b;  2111 

17—973  (2) 

15—2168  (4) 
18—1207  (3);  3088  (2) 

GEV  8 

22—2028 

GEV  3 

20—1484    (1);     2019;     2444    (2); 

GEN  15 

1—492  (:»;        S2X;        2096  (4); 
2798  (4) 
3—51  (5) 

2642  (4) 
21—1534  (6);    2575  (2);    2700l> 

4—2642  (6) 
5—306 

5—3089  (2) 

GEV  9 

6—2517 

6—51  (5);  3101  (7) 

1—2575  (2) 

9—727  (2);  732  (G) 

7—  2111b 

6—146  (3) 

13—911  (G);  112Sb;  1515 

8—  G()3b;  703;   1128;  2574;  2575 

12—3124  (3) 

15—2725  (1) 

(2) 

13—309;  2527;  27S9b 

16—764 

14—309  (3) 

22—2112 

17—1533  (b) 

15—52(6);    477(2);    G20b;    1281; 

23—  877b 

GEV  16 

1353(4);  1307 

20—435 

1—1331  (1) 

10—1040  (1);  1403;  3100 

27—1376  (2) 

3—2300  (3);  2302  (3) 

18—1095 

GEN  10 

5—504 

19—515;  811  (1) 

6-2690b 

22  -51    (5);     52    ((>;;     300!)    (1); 

5—2899  (2) 

7—2021 

3014  (5) 
24—  308b 

9—1440  (1) 
10—312  (11);   359  (3);   574  (16); 

12—1510  (5) 
13—1267  (5) 

590  (12) 

GEV  4 

11—2148  (5) 

GEN  17 

1—477  (2) 

19—2304  (4)                                              4—2574 

3—  3110b 

21—1513  (2) 

0—1800  (3) 

4—1400  (3);  2040  (1);  2042  (4) 

22—918;  2305  (2) 

8—  2519b 

3407 

3408 


IXDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


GKN  n—rontiiiiinl                               GEN  25  —  continual                                         GKN  38 

10     489:1531    61                                    32  —  1550(6)                                               15-2211(4) 

17—2117"                                                 34      1866" 

IS—  49S  (6);  735  (3);  270S  (1  i 

18-1509"                                                                        GKN  26 

21—2682  (1) 

25  -2(542  (S) 

24—2305  (3) 

(;KN    18                              34     2300  (3) 

GKN  39 

1  —  1022(6);   1132(2!                          35-  -255(5 

20—1739 

4-414";   1125                                                               (i,,v  27 

r-           i  «>  -  i           > 

(  i  K  N    40 

4—487 

6  —  516  ((5)                                              12  97  11' 

1(5—413 

12—2117"                                               13—2912 

17   -510  (5) 

14-2189  (4)                                            27-435- 

GKN  41 

IS—  458  (4);  2574                                  41—2302" 

14—403  (2) 

19—583                                                       4(5—2300  (3) 

25—1739  (4) 

21  —1407  <  1 

22-2019                                                                          (1':v28 

41—2708  (2  > 

1  0  —  1  (53  1 
2:>  —  9/2  (1);    l.->34;  2;>92  (3) 
27—269                                                  13—1553(3) 

43—911 
45—913  (23);  3132 

32     ">7:>(/,>                                            16-1531(6) 

50—2444  (3) 

18—1454  (5);  2042  (9);  3124  (3)       54—824  (11) 

I  20—2430"                                                                            ,,_..    tn 

2—414"                                                     21      2302  (2) 

V  IK  N     <iZ 

8—1432  (4);  255(5" 

21—2504" 

28     304(5                                                                             (":N'29 

22—2571  (1  i 

It  —  IS, 

23—2210  (1) 

(JEN  20                              31     -1933  (b) 

37—2305  (3) 

3—  SOI    (/)                                                                                                  ,.,.„.    on 

(  i  !•:  N    60 

7   -24(51" 

GKN  43 

10—488  (b) 

11—100  (4);  291  S" 

0-2523  (2) 

21  —  535 

(lKN  21                               20-1801  (6) 

34—  SSO  (6) 

8—1310  (3)                                            37—100  (6) 

9—1108  (6);   1509  (3) 

v  i  r,  N     O  J. 

GKN  44 

10  -478;  2(590"                                       ?_155()b 

3—331  (2) 

14-2300  (3);  2302  (3.                          19-1532(6);   1551 

20—438  (1  ) 

19  -.)!()"                                                    ()i    _1()7,, 

GKN  45 

21-  370(2)                                            -3_1442 
23-  -1011   (2);  3034 

13—123(5 

GK\  32 

GKN  46 

GKN  22                               9     1142 

2—2642  (0)                                            13   -2918" 

4—529  (4) 

12      1113                                                     21    -1551                                                     34-1739(3, 

14—1583                                                  30—131(5  (2)                                                                   GKN  47 

IS—  020  (VI);  2574                                                       GK\  33                               4.27—911(5,9) 

GEN  23                            10    -2918'-                                               11—1054;  2520" 

18  —  173S 

1—2304                                                                             GKN  34 

S-533  (2)                                                1  —  1551  (b) 

GEN  48 

16—2081                                                     3  —  1SI5S" 

5—255(5" 

GKN  24                            25  -2793(1) 

S—  59S  (2) 

20—3110  (2)                                                                   GKN  35 

13—1334 

31—1819                                                    2—1532";  2523  (2)                                                      ('KN  49 

40—20                                                        5—1551  (6) 

1—1552 

53—1331"                                                 22—2410" 

3—137(5  (2);   2453  (3);   2572  (1) 

00—487  (3  i                                              28—  2302" 

4—310 

07—2091"                                                                              ..   ofi 

V  i  r>  .\     OU 

0—1230" 

GKN  25                             31—2303 

10—020  (VI);   1858";   27(58" 

12  —  2052 

8—974  (4)                                                                  GEN  37 
19—2554  (1  i                                              2—1738" 

18—1553  (3) 

23—1114                                                    3—878  (3) 

GKN  50 

20—2302"                                                   9—310  (6) 

2—530;  974  (4) 

30—144"                                                  27—2301 

3—911  (5) 

31—2453  (3)                                            28—2416" 

5—970  (1) 

IXDKX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TKXTS 


3409 


(  !K\  60  —rontinin'il 

KX  9 

Kx  1&—  continued. 

17—  1133  (2) 

1      2405  (5) 

21  -12S7b;   1(575  Ct) 

20-2484  (0) 

3   -2094'' 

26—208 

•20—1)11   (0) 

10     2  1001' 

Kx   19 

27     2559 

1      SS51';    1858;  2(543  (1  ) 

MX   1 

Ivx   10 

5      1922  (3);  20S2  (1) 

1      105.-) 

7-  -2400  (1  i;  28191' 

0      1800  (Ij;  2439 

8—3154 

8—2643 

8     2019  (3) 

11    -520;    1001;    2()Sli;    2539'' 

23—  1S91 

15      1003  (7) 

15—  2  Hid1' 

24—2405  (9) 

10     2997  (2  > 

16—  28621' 

Kx   11 

Ivx  20 

KX  2 

1      112S1' 

1      2(>;    1020(f/);   1332(1);  2090 

3—242;     73(1    (13);     20X4    (2); 

2      1  257 

2-    2005 

28171' 

:     3—1007  (2.) 

3—202 

5—1053  (3);   23001' 

Kx   12 

4—1535  (4) 

10—  20S4  (2)- 

2—541 

5—137(5;  1858 

15—  20S5 

0—1103  (2) 

0—1933  (2);  2940  (41 

KX  3 

7—1929  (2) 

8—  2632b 

2—532- 

21-2022'';  22571' 

10—2469  (4j 

5—404  (2);   1  125  (b\ 

34-S771' 

12—1095  (5j;  2944  (I) 

8—76 

36—2086 

13—20(57  (5) 

10—2085  (5) 

37—105(5;   10(55  (5>;  25391' 

1  7—  733h 

13      10SS  (1);    120(5  (5);  3034 

41—1055 

20—110 

!  1      12541';   1535 

43  —  1853   (b) 

22-2201 

18—2643 

48—  656b 

24  —  109;  839(7);   1539;  2(543(2) 

19—  112S>>;   11291' 

]]x  13 

2044  (7);  28971' 

Kx  4 

2—1114;  2453  (4);  20S2  (1) 

25—110(1)                          V 

(5—2257  (7) 

Kx  21 

4  2449h 

('»—  1SG7 
10—  1007  (2) 
1  1—2093 
19—  2085b 

7—2167 

9—  127'1;  2393  (3; 
14—2532  (h) 
19     97(5  (1);  2591h 

2—1331  (1);  2(535  (2) 
(5—341;  1270  (2);  2301  (5) 
7—863 

S—  2555b 

22—009    (5);      1515    (b);     2403'-; 

Ivx   14 

12—2305  (3) 

2820  (2j 

2   -9131';    2050;    208(5'';    2390  (1) 

15  —  1331  (1) 

24—2912 

19  -395 

20—704 

25—490;  (i57 

21—2539  (4);  2540- 

22—1418 

25—  24551' 

Ivx  5 

Kx  15 

3—2043 

4—  2086b 

Kx  22 

0—  1SS3  (9) 

S—  2540;  2841  (1) 

7.10—1332  (1) 

21—  270()h;  2S1S 

11—  1535'-;  20S2  (1) 

18—1904 

18—1800  (1  ) 

20  -1858 

Ex  6 

27—  20S7  (5) 

20—2409;  2917b 

3—1535;  2300  (2) 

27—421'';   877  (ft) 

7—  2039b 

Kx  16 

12-1007  (2) 

1—2087  (5) 

Ivx  23 

30—057  (4) 

12—2015  (3) 

10—74  (1) 

13—2301  (4) 

11—2090'';  2035 

Kx  7 

14  -11  471' 

14  -542;   1255  (n) 

4—  1128'- 

22  -2(532'' 

16—3024  (2) 

11     942(1) 

27    -2034 

19—  2052'  ' 

10-2043 

Ivx   17 

29—  21471' 

19—524  (3);  2311  (0) 

2—2943 

32  -7(54;  30081' 

Ivx  8 

7—  2301'1;  2303  (4) 

Kx  24 

9—1239  (.3) 

8  -100(5  (1) 

3     -185S;  2(553  (2);  2055  (1) 

15—  133S 

11  -912 

4—  108;  403  (16);   2(543  (1) 

IS—  942  (1  ) 

14—2109 

0—284(5'' 

19—1111'' 

Kx  18 

7—556;  731  (3) 

22—2477  (1) 

11—1535 

8—2022;  2025;  200S1' 

24—1120 

12—108;   1(574  (3);  2<i!3  (11) 

17—  28021' 

3410 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


],;x  25                                                          1'vX  34                                              LKV  11  --continual 

5—2S14                                                    5—1237                                                  35—2530 

8—883";  1079                                         8—3110  (2)                                            44—1404 

9     234  (1);  22641'                                  9—2129 

LKV  13 

22—1852  (2);  2303                                12—3008'' 

10—2515'' 

33—100  (h\                                              17—244                                                    13—1867  (3) 

18—  22571' 

45—1890 

22    -3021  (2) 

47—2449 

0—234  (2)                                              26—2052 

LEV  14 

20—  2181b;  21S2                                       29     3005" 

14—886  (D 

Ex  28                                                       Kx  35                              33—2449 

1—2440  (1);  2144  (3)                           25     736  (10);  2841                                  ;u    -1S08  (2) 

3—2841  (1  )                                            35—  30771' 

LKV  15 

4—902                                                                             Ex  38 

11  L  -t 

12—2439;  2445  (2)                                  s  -2X94 

18—1003 

20-3041  (3)                                                                     Ex  39 

29-2020                                                    .,    ,„;., 

LKV  16 

30-2019  (4)                                                                            4Q 

1—327 

;:^,(:"                *:»«» 

''»»                —  t/V/V                                                                                                                                                                                    .>     .                   -     ,,-.  ,, 

40-495  (b) 

2—671  (9);  1079 
4—  320'' 
12—112  (2i 

21—828 

Ex  29                                                          LKV  1 

29—327 

1—2643    :;                                               2—1857                                                  33—326'- 

2—5152                                                        3—2644  (5) 

LEV  17 

9—495  (b)                                            14—476                                                    3—758 

18—  28  IS                                                                            LKV  2                                 7—828 

20-2441                                                     4_5i6  (3)                                              10-1857 

44—2682(1)                                            14—2247" 

18 

45—1079                                                                                v  ~ 

LE\    3                             19—2111" 

Ex  30                               11    -1857                                                  21—2074(2) 

6—245                                                                              LKV  4 

LKV  19 

9—112                                                       1—2645  (c) 

2—1404- 

11—322  (1);  2080"                                   3-2439  (2) 

15—488  (b) 

12-2022;  2531                                                                LKV  g 

17—1351  (2) 

1G~291S  ®                                               1-2666  (5) 
35-736  (14)                                            1?_1309 

18—1022  (In;  1029;  2133* 
19—2712'' 

Ex  31                                                       L,,;v  6 

23—657  (4) 

18—  llll1'                                                      1—2(560  (.5) 

26—2400  (1) 

27—1320  (2) 

Ex  32                                                       LKV  7 

28—057;  1127(b);  24551' 

1—2643  (4)                                            12—1857                                                  .'51—944 

2-127(1)                                              38   -1870(2) 

LEV  20 

5—544  (5)                                                                       LKV  8 

7—  7221'                                                     8—2019  (b) 
9—2129;  2854                                         9—29001' 
12-2019'-                                               10-343  (2; 
14—2727(11)                                        23—886(1) 
26-244!)''                                                   20    -.510 

2—2074;  2390 
0—2400  (1) 
10—1090  (8);  2508  (1) 
22—2592  (3) 
27—090  (2) 

29-1333                                                                           LEV  9 

LEV  21 

30—  2019h 
32-2310b                                                 22     2440(4) 

5—3801'2;  1320  (4) 
18—2156 

LEV  10 

Ex  33 

LEV  22 

in-  •>iiX'^l> 

1—  2665b 

i  -•)() 

10—  2556  (4) 

3—  2129b 

4_9202                                                    9—881;  28641'                                                               LEV  23 

7—2303;  2449  (III)                                                  LEV  11 

5—1103 

11—2462                                                    4—2864 

8—2257 

18—1237                                                  5—1339 

10.23—1103 

20—  1316b;  2723  (3)                               13—  885b                                                   14—  2247b 

INDKX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TKXTS 


:'A  1  1 


LKV  23  —  continnai 

Xu  5                                              Xu  13—conlinueri 

15—2257  (7) 

11  —  1572;  21(59'';  259  11'                           0-2020 

34—1854 

14—2842                                                     19—  2550'  • 

40—2236  (3) 

Xu  6                              21-757 

LKV  24 

1—1320(3);  21  2  1>> 

11—  3017b 

3—  S81                                                                          Xu  I9 

14—  2S53  ((>) 

18—2645                                                    :1     -1W' 

16—1858 

22-2440  (4)                                              s  -3W' 

19—  2504b 

23—1913  (2)                                             I'      -K'-'1' 

LKV  25 

XL  8                                 '  '    -1**' 

1—  1S70 

5—  3901'                                                                            NI-'  20 

2—  26351' 

7  -21091'                                                      1—21(50;  2303  (4) 

6—74  (1)                                                 19—2020                                                     5     2109 

8-512                                                                              Xu  9                                U    -2S4:; 

o     '^0^  (  4-^t                                                                                                                             1'^     ')('w*>i. 

1  —  216(5  (1) 

12-74  (2)                                                                           ,                                       22—1421  (3) 

15  -1750  (2)                                                                                                               L'x-2300  (b, 

IS—  1757 
23—  1468b 

3—2168 
10—1103  (1)                                                                     Xu  21 

25—2427(4)                                           14-2168(3)                                            8—1455(6) 

26—2541 

35—245;  2190  (5j                                   9—2789" 

32  -7571' 

v                                       14—2169 

r\  u  11 

1  7—  2S301' 

34-75  (7) 
39     2301  (5) 

1-3034  (1)                                            27-120;  2470 
5—1514  (3);  2311  (Oj                          -'9—1255 

47—1272                                                   10-3113(1) 

48—2555(3)                                          25—2842 

51—2022 

5—293  (ft) 

LKV  26 

-Nl    12                              34—2559  (2) 

1—709:  2550:  3152b                                                  ,,     „ 

1—1454  (ft) 

3-2090 

4—505  (3);  2526  (3) 

6—2462:     2577    (1):     257s    (             °     3/S  (2) 

5—3051                                                        2.-)S1b                                               10—975;  1023 

11—  2837'-                                                   s     1237                                                   13—2108  (2) 

16—78;  487                                                                                                                19—  2337'-;  3034  (3) 

22—  2M71'                                                                                                                   22—  30S5 

23-2545"                                               22~2169"                                               23-2400  (2) 

31—  2S1S 
34—2035  (4) 
38—2164  (// 
41—1079 
42—75  (6) 

23—1123 

Vi-    O/l 

28—662  (2j 
29—120                                                       2—310  (S);  378  (2);  2400  (2) 
33—84;  143  (3;                                       5—103 
7-311  (9);  2109 
S—  3085 

46—2023;  1S70 

18—1021  (a)                                            17—308;  629  (3);  2702;  2848  (o) 

LKV  27 

on      ooo 
JU  —  o££                                                                    9  j  213Sh 

14—2082  (1) 

29—323 
X  u  25 

1(5—75  (4) 
17—1756  (2) 

42—243  (ft) 
45_2302b 

31—  25301' 

Xu  15                                                     Nu  27 

34—  1S70 

30—1292(3);  2651;  20(56  (5)                8—520;  2554  (1) 

32—21(59                                                   14—  2682b 

Xu  1 

37—  2917b                                               10—2495  (4);  2497  (4) 

1  s     2295 

Xu  16                               17—  27(53b 

20—010'" 

Xu  28 

3—2019  (4) 

XL   3 
11—  1113b 

12—2082  (1  ) 

10—839                                                     19—2257  (7) 
22—2497  (4j                                                                     XT-  29 

40—2531- 

Xu  17                                7-322(3) 

43—  21071' 

2—244  (4)                                                                       Xu  31 

51—2022;  2541                                        10—3116                                                   10—1770 

Xl;4                                                      Nil  18                             49-2168(4) 

S—  2S14                                                     2—1868  (ft)                                                                     ^'r  32 

19-  -2019  (4)                                                3—  2307'-;  244S  (1)                                 10—  322  (ft) 

341: 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


Xu 

33                                              DT  11  —  continued 

DT  20 

2—2164  (2) 

1  1      505  (3)                                                  1—256  (6) 

7—2050 

16—202                                                       10—764 

38—2;  2300  (3); 

2302h                         20-29001'                                                 16—35;  1536;  230(5  (S 

55—2974 

DT  12 

DT  21 

Xu 

35                                '•>  --'212 

1—2651  . 

5—  20341' 

5-1265 

i»—  2645  (IV) 

19-764;  2555  (3)                                                                                                12-418  (6) 

31—2697 

8—211)7  (3i 

15—478  (b) 

32—254(5  (3) 

10  -838;  S391' 

1  7—2453 

33—322  (b) 

23—2837'' 

22—1662  (1  ) 

30    -7(54 

23  -25(57  (4j 

IVi 

!                                                        DT  13 

Dr  22 

28—234  (7>);  550 

(2);  662  (2)                      87°                                                  :     6—  213S1' 

DT 

17    --3034  (1 
4 

9—2712'' 

7  2574 

DT  14 

12-2917'' 

19—  2081  b;  251  1 

1    -3801' 

19—864  (4) 

30—  2558b 

2  —  2294'1 

22—2508  (1  ) 

32—2065;  2311   < 

12—  S851' 

23—1998 

21      2052 

DT  23 

D-i 

5                               22  -757 

1   -1020  («);  216S  <2)                           28  -2427(4) 

15—2944  (Ii 

18—271  (6);  2682  (1) 
1)T  15                               19  -1257:  '2133 

16—747 

1  —2635  (2 

IS  —  10951' 

DT  24 

1      2120 

24—12:57  (4J 

11  —  101  (//) 

1—8(54  (b);  2592  (3) 

DT 

6                                12     2127  (4);  200(5  (4) 

12—2409 

4—741;  10SS;  1 

933                               15  —  2541 

1  3-42  I'- 

5—1029 

17—341 

ll—  1022 

6—2303 

DT  16 

16—36;  838;  2665  1,2) 
20     2181'';   2185  (2>2 

7—2104  (2) 

1   -542 

8—  127b 

s    -2257  (7) 

DT  25 

9—  2900b 

18—720 

2—185(5 

14—202 

19—  4ss  (b 

1      1022;   13671';  2102 

16—  2301h 

21  —  108  (b);  2013  (2) 

5  —  52(5 

25—  259  11' 

22     2231;   1454b 

9—1125  (b);  2779'' 

DT 

7                                                         DT  17 

DT  26 

2—1536;  300s1 

2-1S5S                                                     12—2427  (4) 

3—  1129b 

(i—  613  (4);  1922 

3—  2514b 

(3)                              7-2853  (Oj 

DT  27 

24—2112 

8—208 

5—  839'1;  289(5  (4) 

25—  29421' 

14—1800  (3);  2:100                                11—890 

DT 

g                                10-1423(3-                                                                     ,)T  28 

3—  2943'  ' 

DT  18 

1  -973  (1);  2065 

4—1125  (l» 

6--24491';  2150                                     13—2903'' 

9—  2044b 

s  -2264                                                  22  —  4861' 

DT 

9                                 9     296;  942;  944                                 27—301  (V) 

2—84  (b) 
6—2854 
10—1111'' 

10—1963  (ft);  2460  (1);  3098              28—1961  (1) 
11—  2761h                                                35—1104 
15—617      (III;;      2022;      2040'-;     37—2470  (3) 
2462    (3;;    2517'';    2578    (3);  :  49—  885h 

DT 

10                                      2921  (S)                                            58—3017'' 

6—2300  (l» 

18—2093;  257s                                      59—1370 

12—1933  (2> 

21-2461                                                                            |)T29 

16—  657h 

I)T  19                                2—2168  (2) 

DT 

11                                  1  -2546  (3)                                                5—837 

S    -973  1  1  ) 

6—2555  (3)                                            23—522"'- 

10—1126;  149:; 

14     2212 

27—3113  (Ij 

11—  2525b 

15-1670  (Ij                                            29—2104  (2);  2312 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


DT  30 

JOSH  9                                                       Jc 

s  8 

0—057  (3) 

4—  510h                                                     2—1234" 

11—2000(4)                                          >  23—  1220                                                   14—  463  (cj 

DT  31 

JOSH  10                             22—1517" 

9-403;  555-  836  (6)                        12~44S  <*>                                            f~2^' 
10-2635  (3)                                        ?i~l^;,?12°                                   l~l-"'  291S" 

19—2093 
22—840 

27—075;   1450- 

JOSH    11 

24—1854  (4) 

1  -1750  (b)                                                                    Jo 

s  9 

20—1880(14)                                          21-2229(2)                                              7-29(111);   1085;   1754 

DT  32 

JOSH   13                               8-2184";  2243 

(1) 

2—505 

5  -2708                                                   '     9—1534  (0) 

4—1200  (b) 

-,  -;«)()()'.                                                    13—3088  (2) 

0—008  (2);  3089  (2) 

1  ,                              37—2033 
JOSH  15 

7—2310  (3)                                            44—2227                                                  53—2052 

11—  885b 

JOSH   16                                                     J(lS 

10 

13-2184''                                               10-1223":  2232  (<l)                               l-MV;  1775 

14—1790" 

15—1023;  3035  (5) 

JOSH   17                                                        J«^ 

11 

22—978;  2701"                                        14-500  (b)                                             24—1255  (a) 

34—2709 

1Q                              30—1250 
JOSH  18 

DT  33                                7—2450                                                  QQ     JKR? 

2—2998                                                     10—1884  (11) 

3—1125" 

JOSH  20 

14 

12—2780"                                                      ...     .,-.--                                                       0—2842 

JOSH  22                             1S~24°'  '   13'i7" 
9-108"                                                                           Jos 
29-838                                                         3-212 

15 

27—975;      1011     (2);      1100     (3); 

JOSH  24                               8~1394b 

_l*14b                                                 15—000;  2108  (4) 

I  )T  34 

20—2089  (1);  2920  (2;                                                  Jcs 

16 

7  -911  (7> 

4  —  2(>70 

10     2402;  2577  (2);  2578  (3) 

Jos  1                                 21—  2450  (Oi 

1—3040"                                                   31  —  1518 

JOSH   2 

J«is  2                                                          Jcs 

17 

1      2525                                                       .-, 
10    -2212" 

—3008"                                                     0—1770 
-1427                                                     7—2449" 

JOSH  3 

J(.s  4                               13—2450 

15—1745  (2);  2212  (2.;                             <s 

--3  100"                                                                         j,,s 

18 

18 
JOSH  4 

—  1557";  2550"                                    19  2093 

Jcs  5                               27—2044" 

3-1745  (b) 

-  1  0  Y") 

~ 

Jos 

19 

JOSH   5                               l-j 

—  3110 

2    -050"                                                      i.-, 

_271()                                                 10-1432  (4) 

3—057"                                                   1  7 

-087  (2  ,                                                 19-3088,2, 

11—2247"                                                 19 

-2229  (2,                                                                     Jcs 

20 

15—404  (3);   1125"                                23 

—2037'"                                                 l(i—  1109  (2) 

JOSH  6                              24 

—  1558;  2550"                                     20  1099" 

1-2780"                                                 3» 

-735  (5);  884 

10—2525 

Jcs  6                                                       RTTH  1 

20-722  (lj;   1389;  2713                        4 

-1055                                                     1-2214  (3) 

JOSH  7                                                                                                                       RUTH  2 

34 

—2842                                                                    _( 

5-3075 

-332                                                         ~224'  ' 

20-2559  (2) 

17   -2214  (3j 

21—087  (1s);  2070;  2231 

J<;s  7 

20--2005" 

—2082                                                                              HfTK  3 

2—1227  (5)                                              3    -877" 

•)oslt  8                              13—405;  2570                                           7—2214  (3) 

30—890;   1858                                        22—2108  (4;                                            13—1272" 

3414 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


RI-TH  4                                                     1   S  12 

1    S  28 

4—2541 

11—4 

1—296  (1) 

6—2556 

1   S  14 

3—690  (2) 

7—2779 
11—2524 

4—  51  2b 

7—598;  30971' 
9-2466  (1);  2819b 

8  —  332 

9—2466  (1);  2819b 

1  S  1 

14—38 

15—  2761  b 

18—85;  2894 

1     o    on 

3—  2893b 

20  —  478;  2677 

41      331  (3);  518;  3041  (4) 

I    !>   29 
4—2536 

24—  245()b 

1   S  15 

I   S  30 

1  S  2 

3—2(598  (5) 

6—2489 

1—2093;  3100b 
18—8;  1455 
19—  2450b 

11—3034  (1) 
22—1538  (2);  2175 
24—2559  (2) 

I   S  31 

10     2377  (2) 
11—530  (3) 

27  —  670 

25—2019  (1) 
27—  2450>>;  2451;  3131 

29—  2337b;  2558;  3034  (3) 
30—2700  (3) 

2  S  1 
IS  —  512 

1  S  3                               •«  7<\-A 

19—2700  (4) 

1—2462   (3) 

1    S  16                               23-885'' 

19—2461  (6) 

1—2462  (5) 

2  S  2 

1  S  4 

5—  83S 

1  1      1  109  !_') 

1—2891  (4) 

6—2020 

3—  245b 

14—66  (2);  26SO 

2  S  3 

8—1255  (a) 

20—3088 

35—1099 

20—2050 

1   S  17 

2  S  4 

1  S  5 

7—2231 

9—  2535b 

2—2377 

17—  2247b 

2  S  5 

6—2403 

25—289  (2) 

2—2921  (9) 

1   S  6 

31—2680 

6—1614  (4);  1S231' 

1—2231  (3) 

49—1169  (2) 

8—1609  (3) 

8—377  (6) 

1   S  18 

20—3075 

9—593;  1336;  2189  (5) 

5—2093 

2  S  6 

21—12 

20—  2555b 

7—3113 

1  S  7 

21—  2819>> 

1  1     S;   1170 

1   S  19 

20—2048 

5—  20191' 
6—4 

18—2462  (4) 

23—2034 

2  S  7 

17—838 

1    S  20 

1—2120 

1  S  8 

()     1442 

3—2460  (4) 

6—2462;  2698  (5) 

27—541 

5—2020  (5) 

7—  256b 

1  S  21 

7—2940 

10—2918  (3) 

1—2894 

11—2040  (1) 

11—1800  (3) 

5—1003  (7) 

12—1458  (4);    1537  (5);  2464  (2) 

15—289  (2);  2093 

13—1961  (1) 

14—  2042b;  2827 

1   S  9 

14—418  (4) 

2  S  8 

4—2215  (2) 

1   S  23 

11—  2941  h 

6—2462   (3) 

10—  1129b 

17—3131  (5) 

9—2019  (3);  2713;  2921  (7) 

19—1334 

2  S  9 

11—1391 

28—2699  (11)                                            7—  289Sb 

1  S  10 

1  S  24 

11—  2556b 

6—2579 

3—  1125b 

2  S  10 

10—2841  (1) 

13—2470  (2) 

4—418;  2751h 

11—2700 

1  S  25 

2  S  11 

12—2470  (2) 

25—1884  (12);  2551  (1) 
27—  2918b;  2919 

13—2757  (4) 
18—  510b;  2247b 

2  —  30391' 
15—2521 

41—  1125b;  3072b 

2  S  12 

1  S  11 

6  —  2699b 

1  S  26 

1—  22431' 

14—  2557b 

20—  1118b;  2254 

8—  504b;  1129b 

IXDKX  OK  SCRlITrRK  TKXTS 


2  S   12  —  continual 

K   4                                               IK   16     continiu 

13—2799  ((i)                                              4—3130  (0) 

31      1075 

15—27X3''                                                 21-291X'' 

31      12;    13X9;  2075;  2713 

10—  10991'                                                 23—1124 

1      K     17 

27—2521-                                                 25—3051 

1      2101 

2S—  2112                                                  29     21701';  30S 

9  (2)                               21      976 

30—2074  (2)                                                                     i 

K   5                                                       IK   18 

31—118;  703                                           ,._,.S7  (2, 

19     2x<)s>' 

2  S  13                                                       j 

K   g                                21       1255  (i);    15X3  (7) 

IS—  X7X  (3)                                                1—1  7751' 

26—1964  ((\) 

21—2555  (3)                                               If)     2930  (3) 

2x    -1X57;  2-1(52  (4) 

2S—  30SX                                                                                1 

10  -7.53 

14-070;  30X5  (2j 

2  S  14                                  9     527 

1    K   19 

3      209:;                                                                                    I 

K   o 

1  1  —  2555  (3  i                                                4—2X93  (1  )  ; 

2S94  (3j                           U      1:>:!S     ' 

20      1320-                                                    21  2441' 

10  -934  (1  > 

2  s  15                              27—310  (S);  2 

190,,                                '-'I    -1183 

(13     2449 

1    K   20 

7-57(1) 

K  9                               :'>1     -1313 

30—  4031' 
7     2470  (3) 

31  -570   (1  j;    (5X7   (3);    X57   (16); 

"'  r>  16 
11—3003  (2/2 

2192  (3i 

(i"11U                                                   10-  -551  (5) 

37—2462  (4) 

23—  219Sb 

1\    91 

1 

K   10 

2  S  17 

29—  240  11' 

41-1,                                                     1—1170  (7) 

1    K  22 

'           '  '                                                    15—0X7  (2) 

'                                                                IS     30001' 

20  -06  (-2) 

25—2109                                                  ^     ' 

29—  SO 

2<  -^_b                                             25-2918* 

34—2106 

27—2793 

Is    -OS7  (2) 

•'  S  18 

1 

K  11 

21—768 

2  K  1 

,  .,   1Q                                5  —  1255  (i) 

2  S  19 

2     340  (o);  34X 

24—203-1                                                   ^     AQfi 

S—  730;  S77  (4) 

2  S  21                             41-1885 

9    -579 

1—1226 

K   12                                                       -    K   2 

10—1111 

9    -935  (3) 

14—  2551b 

11—975  (1);    1400    11 

2  S  22                              16—1593  (3) 

12  -590  (7) 

10—594                                                    21—2462  (5) 

2    K   3 

2  S  23                             25~124 

11—412  (3) 

26—1255  (it) 

13—1580 

4-671  (9);  2464  (2)                            28—109  (9) 

15   -2400  <2i  2579 

2  S  24                              30—1594  (6) 

2   K  4 

1—  315X  (4)                                                                    1 

K   13                                S—  1182 

2—2919                                                    2—744 

19    -28791' 

17—1021  (a)                                                4—  309X>> 

23—2462  (5j;  2910  (2j 

24—2641  (6)                                            11—  21  S31' 

34    -970 

25—109  (5)                                                                      j 

K   14                                                      2   K   5 

3-516  (5) 
7-2462  (5) 

7—1X07  (.1.) 
17—  108b 

9—954;  3155                                         25  912  (15); 
50—109  (4) 

IS—  1255  (i);  2594 
K   15                             20—  11S21- 

1    K  2                                2-10 

2   K  6 

19—2514                                                       3—3102 

12     2161 

27—  24501' 

1    K   16                             25     2S7  (4) 

1    K  3                                 1—2462  (5i 

2   K  7 

4—2X23  (1);  2S941'                              25—2193  (4) 

2—315  (4) 

3416 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


2   K   8                                            2  K  20—  continued 

1  Ch  13 

11—267                                                     12—367 

3—85;  2894h 

16—932(7)                                            IS—  2030 

5—2768 

2   K  9                               20—1609  (4);  2225  (3) 

8—1112 

11—1961  (1)                                                                    2   K  21 

10—3043 

22—1964                                                       3—  208  1>> 

1   Ch  14 

27-2229  (2.i                                              6—  345h;   19631' 

7—1255  («) 

7  —  1455  (4) 

-    '^   1U 

1    Ch  17 

15—2535  (2) 

2   K  22 

1—2120 

18—1585  (8) 

8—4(54  (</);    556;   838  (9);    1853; 

21—2541 

20—2(582  (  1  . 

1  S83 

1   Ch  19 

22—601 

13—839 

4—  275  1'1 

2    K   11 

2   K   23 

1    (  'li   91 

4  --23791' 
12     24161' 

2   1\   13 

2—464  (g);  1753  (3) 
4—1258  (4);  2040  (1);  208  1'- 
5—298  (3);  299 
7—1336 

1       V     1  1      ft  J. 

1—3158 
1(5—308'' 

I    Ch  23 

5-—  570  (2,i;   1346  (2);    1577 

8—2234 

27  —  1885 

14    -332;  59(5;   1576  (2-                          10—  '>63S>' 

1    (  'h  24 

19—2666  (3) 

11—  1454  >' 

14—2918'' 

2    K    14 

15—2184  (3) 

1    Ch  26 

9-  -1085;  2213  ,1  > 

2   K  24 

10—1239 

13—1687 

24—143  (lj 

11—115;  2231   (3) 

15—2514 

1   Ch  27 

22—115  (G) 

20—573  (10) 

24—  18S5 

25—  1221' 

28—2182 

2   K  25 

2   K   16 

7  -764 

1   Ch  28 

3—  345h;  2(538 

12—574  (14) 

3—  29401' 

6—25,88 

16—3079 

11—234  (1);  2264  >' 

8—841   (3) 

27  -15771' 

19—  289  V' 

2   K   17 

1    Ch  29 

3—  2747b 

1    Ch  2 

IX  129'' 

4     912  (17);   1  42S    /,                             1(5—2109;  3118 

(5—2693                                                      18—1185  (6) 

20—3111 

9—2234 

22—3130  (6 

16—298  (3);    25  14'' 
26—1428;  2869  (3; 

1    Ch  4 
21—736 
23—2233 

24—2453 
29-1884 

27—1255  (<t) 

30—299  (5);  2869  il  i 

1    Ch  5 

2   Ch   1 

31—  2638b 

5—2893  (  1  ) 

3—2894  (3) 

37—679 

2(5—570  (2) 

7—2823  (r,, 

2   K   18                                                      i    <'h  7 

1(5—687  (2) 

4—839  (7);   1386  (2);     1455  (6);        5 

2  Ch   2 

2132;    2234;   273S1' 

6-  -2  190  (3) 

9—  27471'                                                     ~")04 

2  Ch  3 

17—  2522h                                                                          1    Ch  8 

26—361   (8)                                                33—346 

1      2930  (4);  3152  (5) 

2   K   19                                                      '    ('l'   9 

2  Ch  5 

8-2523                                                   11-2443 

3  -2894  (3) 

9-912  (17  i                                                -2021  (7 

•>   Ch    fi 

13—231  (17);  2722  (2                           39—346 

-J      V.  >  1  1      \J 

7-2941 

28—2155'' 

1    Ch  11 

29—3051 

6  —  1(509  (3) 

2  Ch   9 

2    K   20                               17   -3074 

4—841   (3) 

7—1109  (6.                                                                       1    Ch   12 

2  Ch   10 

8—1388                                                       8—11(59  (2) 

10—1111 

9—2981''                                                 18—2460  (2) 

2  Ch  11 

11  —  841                                                     32—1542  (4) 

11—  663'1;  2182;  3088 

IXDEX  OF  SCKIPTt'HK  TEXTS 


3417 


2  Ch  12 

E/.it  3                                            XKH 

10  -cnntu 

2-912(15)                                               13—960                                                       32    -291S" 

3—913" 

KZH  4                               34-1104 

2  Ch  13                               7-260";  3.51   (8)                                   38-1857" 

5—255(5"                                                 10—21 

51 

NKH   12 

2  Ch  14                             13-2919  (2)                                            •>-,     2131   (5) 

14      7'' 

Ob-    i  12:5-  2556" 

9—912  (16) 

NKH   13 

2  Ch   16 

I'-/K  5                                       .,,i--    . 
3  —  20.)  /     2 

17—  1SS6"                                                      -     >)lv 
7—2921  (7) 

8—912  (16) 

Kzu  6                                   |  -,  -.-,;$.-,!. 

9—1128"                                                    '•"'     ^ 

">  (19)                                              22-26X2  (1  ) 

12—262;  2(56(5  (3) 

]•'//.]{  7 

14-529";  530;  744                               ,()     ()() 

2X-556  (2) 
>  (5) 

2   Ch   18                              27—2430" 

KST  1 

3—2047 

1<;/u  8                                  5-100S  (S) 

2  Ch  19                             23-2430"                                                  ,()  _^  (2) 

10—2921   (6) 

EZR  9 

KST  2 

2  Ch  20                                  "''" 

•>  (20) 
20  —  2o;>(>" 

1  1  —  1  3 

76  (2) 

24  —21  OS  (4) 

KST  3 

3(5—687  (2) 

K/K  10                             10-2709  (3) 

6—10 

)9" 

2  Ch  21                             iq  _72 

s' 

KST  5 

IS—  511 

1—1009 

19—884" 

NKH   1 

KST  7 

2  Ch  24                              9-25 

")X"                                                        S  —  108(5 

7—318  (4) 

NKH  2                           i    9-1337 

20—2460  (2);  3129"                                 1  -2430 

KST  9 

2  Ch  28                             6—2131"                                               24—1957  (1) 

13—15 

38" 

3—2453  i4) 

NKH  3 

JOB   1 

2  Ch  29                               5-2129"                                                    1-1679";   1» 

5X1 

25-2096;  2462(5)                                                         NKH  4 
1-856(10.) 

2(542    7 

2  Ch  32                                       .,.._.„,,                                                      0--2694  t  1) 

2695  (2,i 

28—2182 

30—1009  (4);  2225  (3) 

NKH   5 

JOB  / 

31—1386  (4);  841  (2)                              7—2606  (4)                                              •L-HIX^ 

ti         o  •"  i  i                                                                                                            Uo-  ) 

S  —  2541 
2  Ch  33                           17-2898"                                                 4~2SU 

-JO.7*  '                                                                                                                      .    1             1    ,),,,-) 

(5-1903"                                               18_495                                                   11-1682 

11—1978  (1);   1979  (4) 

Jon  3 

Xi:"   6                                  5—  485 

•>  pi-,  34 

7—2433(5)                                            s—  310  (5) 

S  —  1  1  .)2 

14—1883" 

NKH   7                                9-308(7) 

61—27 

,.„,                                                 23—1082  (4) 

-  Ch  36                            04-2295                                                   24-3075 

13—2854 

J  i  >  ii  4 

NKH  8 

21  —  /.">  (l  } 

3—1082  (  1  ) 

\  —32 

7;  2104 

EXR  1                               8—556;  1834  (11);  2911  (4)               0_2S4i  d 

1—368 

NKH  9                               14—495" 

K/.K  2 

78                                                     21—  29  IS 

3—  010" 

!  (4);  2477  1  1  ) 

Jon  5 

30-1070(8,                                                                                                                 1-1682" 

•J9—  2712"                                                                                                                   27-934 

02—2295 

NKH   10 

.](»!!     6 

05—2805                                                '  28—57(5                                                       5-514" 

09—535                                                     i  31-2035  (4)                                                6-1(5X2  (2) 

2204 

3418 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


JOB  6  —  continued 

JOB  19  —  continued 

JOB  32 

10—2X19'' 

23—1083'';  1885'- 

3—  930b 

25—2560'' 

21     2297'';  2900 

19—10X4  (1);  30X7  (4) 

30—2348 

25—67  (III);  970  (3);  1200'';  1100 

JOB  33 

Jon  7 

17—  1082'1  ;  2050 

(3);     2499     (12);     2503. 
27  -10X5  (2) 

4—2495  (2);  2497  (7);    2X38  (3) 
14—10X4  (1) 

10—2840 

Jon  20 

24—1400  C3i;  2531'' 

21—1782 

5  -67 

20—3157 

JOB  34 

13—2479 

0—315  (2j 

Jon  21 

37—1686 

7—301  ('/) 

5—10X4  (2) 

JOB  36 

9—311  (10);  313- 

1  7  —553 

16—523 

2  1  -  188'' 

Jon  22 

27—315  (5) 

2,-)  —  900  (4) 

32—1083  (4) 

6—2409 

Jon  37 

33—  799'-;  2018  (1  |;  2019     ! 

12   -307 
23—1083'' 

5—090 
9  -313  (1);  30X3 

Jon   10 

Jon  23 

10-315  (0) 

8—2497 

3    -1200'' 

17—3086  (3) 

Jon  11 

10  -07  (2);   10X4  (3) 

Jon  38 

7—1816;  3033'' 

8—307;  002  (4) 

Jon  24 

2—1085  (2) 

0—2010 

2  —  10X7 

7—308- 

3   9      2109 

9—2874 

10  —  3075 

10     2752 

12-302'' 

Jon   12 

•)T  1  ') 

Jon  26 

14--2708  (1) 

t)  _.  1  l-> 
•)  1  ~O 

0—  27011' 

22     314'' 

,7  —  _  1  1  \  i 

12  -209 
17—1087 

25—8X1  (IVj 

7—3152 
12-2144  (4) 
1  3  -309  (  1  i 

31—311  (10);    312:i 
32-299-;  3132 
33—301'' 

Jon   13 

Jon  27 

Jon  39 

8—2530 

3—10X3  (I) 

3-2497  (4) 

26—  30X8'' 

23—17X2 

X—  10X4  (3) 

27—  885b 

27-21551' 

Jon  28 

A  A 

JOB  40 

2X  —  1X1  is 

1  -2044 

Jon   14 

7      1091'' 

2—1085  (2) 

7—10X3  (3) 
13—2503 
14—970  (3) 
10—377  (4; 
17—2709 

12-108  (4) 
22—3 
23—1913  (4) 
20—1130 
28—1686  (3) 

3   -920 
4—2093 

10—2202 
10-19171' 
21—2544  (2) 
24—2155'' 

Jon  15 

Jon  29 

Jon  41 

4—  10X31' 

2  —  1XXX  (11) 

2—1115;  2155b 

12—  3088'  - 

3—553 

5—470;  1108 

19—10X7 

7—2474  (3) 

18—2130 

27—10X0 

9.10  -2093 

24  —  2052 

33—1122  (4   ;  21X5    2 

12     2494 

Jon  42 

1  C 

17  —  1  572 

JOB   lo 

1  —  1085 

4—  1  0X3'' 

Jon  30 

5—2559 

10—2093 

4—17X1 

6—2558 

12—1109  (2) 

19—209 

7—934;    10X5h;  2042  (7) 

15—2093 

25—  2X371' 

8—2019  (2) 

Jon   18 

JOB  31 

10—1087;  1093  (a) 

(i—  553 

1—25  (5) 

13—2814 

13—2494 

Ps  2 

15—522'' 

20—  191  7h 

1—25  IX 

Jon   19 

20—314;   1X91;  20X1 

7—2042'';  2464;  2826 

9—  1230'- 

35—27X0 

X—  282'' 

20—2X14 

40—930 

9—  2420'  ' 

INDKX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TKXTS 


3119 


Ps  4 

Ps  24 

Ps  42 

5—2649  (2) 

2—316  (7) 

2—2837 

6—1460  (3) 

3—1404  (2);  2508 

4—3110  (2) 

Ps  6 

4—2494 

9  -3035  (5) 

5—2494  (8) 

8—1267  (4) 

I's  44 

Ps  7 

10-1129  (3) 

14—2470  (3) 

3—2493 

Ps  25 

17     2193 

12—2558'' 

7—2019  (1) 

23  -1259  (3) 

Ps  8 

14—728  (1);  2104  (2) 

Ps  45 

1  —  1205 

10—3020'' 

1    -2297'' 

3—  llll'1 

22—2541 

Ps  49 

4—2829 

Ps  26 

3—2476  (3) 

Ps  9 

0     219 

7—2531;  2555  (3) 

17—975;   1251 

Ps  28 

8  -2837  (2) 

Ps  10 

1  —  1206  ((>) 

14—976  (2);  2502 

11—2192  (0) 

4—3084 

1  5  -  2563 
Ps  50 

I's  11 

Ps  30 

3  —  23371' 

5—2049  (2) 

6—  522'1  ;  2S19h 

9  -2494  (S) 

1  1  -470'' 
13-18572 

I's  13 

Ps  31 

23—2430  (3) 

1  —  10SO 

1  —  10891' 

Ps  51 

I's  14 

Ps  32 

3—  2559^;  2591'' 

1—319;   1251 

1—1464  (3) 

5—2798  (3) 

Ps  15 

2  -1462 

6—2192 

1—1404 

5-2019  (1) 

7—  667'' 

2—  30261' 

Ps  33 

10—2550 

Ps  16 
2—1460  (3) 

6—1474;  2021;  3014  (5) 
15—2495  (4) 

16—2649  (2) 
17—  2559b;  2842  (3);  28-15 

7—1797'' 

18—1782 

Ps  53 

8—976  (2);  251  S 

1—1251 

I's  34 

9-1906 

Ps  56 

10-015;  188S'1;  23371' 

8—  29171' 

5     3114 

11—975  (2);  2503 

11—  11021' 

S—  510'';  2923'' 

24—1089'' 

Ps  17 

Ps  57 

1—2493 

Ps  35 

8—2430  (3) 

15—970  (2);  2499  (12);  25(53 

11—2493 

13—1099'- 

Ps  58 

Ps  18 

17—1918;  3020'' 

4  —  8S6  (2) 

2—1537;  3035(5) 

20—  251  5b 

Ps  59 

5-2819h 

21—2093 

5—  43  11' 

20  -2493 

i  j  ,     f*e 

1)         O£ 

IS    DO 

28—553;  952  (2) 
31  -1258b 
34—  416b 

's  36 
5—  1089b 

6—3034  (3) 

4  -613'' 
5—2189  (6) 

Ps  19 

9—1891  (c) 

Ps  66 

10     2793 

1—2574   (2);  3124  (1) 

Ps  37 

Ps  68 

4—1894 

23—2482  (3);  2483b 

12—2192  (0) 

35—  977h 

1  1      2  133  (5) 

13—  2493b 

37—975 

13-871'';  308Sb 

Ps  22 

Ps  38 

Ps  69 

1—2433  (3) 

7—  1917b 

11—2470  (3) 

15—2093 

13—882 

22—  2898b 

21—  3020'' 

Ps  39 

Ps  71 

27—322  (3);   l()22b 

2—882 

3—3035  (5) 

Ps  23 

13—2494 

Ps  72 

2—  2763b;   3075 

Ps  40 

2     2494 

5—1321  (7) 

6—2019  (1);  886  (I)2 

4—2020  (5) 

3420 

Ps  72      rniiliniiril 

5  3021' 

(i     2526  (01 
18-2189  (6 1 

I's  73 

3—67  (I) 
11—  2571  (10) 
18—977'';  2502 
21—17117 

24 — 976  (2j;  2499  i!2i;  '2 
25—1537 

Ps  75 
5—2129 

I's  76 
2—2663 

I's  78 

18—2943 

60     2769;  2X91  (!) 

I's  79 

3—3075 

6  3113  (1  i 
12— 5()4b 

I's  80 

1—310  (X);  2440  (3) 
17—2X20 

I's  81 

3— 303b 

6—413  (1  ) 
12— 29X  (2) 
13—2167  (e.) 

I's  83 


INDKX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TKXTS 
Ps  98 


14— 506 

3—2X311 

4— 2558b 

7     309s1' 
19— 30571' 

1      1  167  (3) 
2—1012  (lOj 

3— 2819h 

6— 234  X1'- 
11—133  (1 


Ps  84 
Ps  85 
I's  87 
Ps  89 
Ps  90 


X  6651' 

'.)  9771' 

3  24  !>'_' 

7  -2S551' 


I's  99 
P-  101 
I's  102 


7—1270  (1) 
10—1933  (2);  3113  (4 


4  -309S'1 

6  2206;  2297K 

7  2X3!) 

•     8-1961  (1) 
26    -3034  (4) 

Ps  103 

1     -2430  (3) 
.">     XS51' 
X     2019  ;1 
12      1134  (6) 

Ps  104 

15  —  1351   (2);  30XS'1 
lit     303>> 

23   1X91 

29  2197  (4);  2562  (2) 

Ps  105 

1 1  -2264 
22  27 19'- 
33   1123 

I's  106 
10  3034 

I's  107 

9— 2X371' 

16  514 
20     2021 
37     3051 

Ps  110 

1     265    (IX  •;     147X    (7); 

25 IX 
3     2202 

I      202X'< 


1    9      1323 


1       1323 
17 -2494  (X) 

1  —  1029  (a) 
15     -243  41' 

1 1      21X9  (6) 
22  -722  (2) 

I 

30—3026 
15— 1881b 

67     21X4  (5) 
S3     30881' 
96     517;  523 


115 


116 


119 


I's  11,9— continued 

100-131 
130—1X91   (n) 
1 33  -2493 

I's  121 
li  302  (5 1 

Ps  122 

3      (191 

Ps  124 

7      I  1431';  2X191' 

Ps  125 

2  I59X  (1  . 

PH  126 

-1    -2X3S1' 

Ps  127 

5  -25 15'- 

Ps  129 

3  -38;  2109'-;  2704 

6  -1293'' 

Ps  131 
2  30761' 

Ps  133 
2  24  H 

Ps  136 

6  311)  (7) 

15  -1516;  20X61' 

Ps  137 

2  -30851' 

3  -2095'1 

5    -2492  (4) 

li     2093'' 

X  -763 

Ps  139 

5—2190  (6) 
2129;        8— 27611' 

9     304;  30XX1' 
13    -1797'' 
21—2494  (7) 
23—2192  ((>;;  24931' 

Ps  140 

5-2X1!)'' 

Ps  141 

!)  -2X19'' 

Ps  142 

7  2-156    7 

Ps  143 
11— 10891' 

Ps  145 
3—  3033'  • 
18—2574 

I's  147 
4—307 
5— 3033b 
10—1865 
19—2574 


INDEX  OF  SCKIPTUIK  TKXTS 
PKOV  15 


13 

21 

3 
14 

20 
23 


1  1 
•'•> 


4- 
20 
25 
31- 

2- 

4- 

19- 

21- 


12- 
14- 

15- 

10- 
14- 
15- 
30- 


X  -  304(1 

PKOV    1 
6—2471 
7— 4201' 

1271' 
3091 

PKOV  2 
-24781' 

PKOV  3 

3009  (2);  31 14'- 
-2478'-;  2482  (3) 
-2478  (4) 

PKOV  4 
—249(1  (6) 

PKOV  5 
3075 

I'KOV   6 
-2S72 

1111;   11251' 
1271' 


3 

(1 
21 

23 
15 


PKOV  7 
-3114 
-2666b 

303'' 
— 2819h 

PKOV  8 

-2798 

-2474  (3) 

-2021;  2472'';  3091   (7) 

PKOV  9 
-24721' 
3075 

PKOV  10 


PKOV  12 


I'KOV  11 
-101'' 
-3034 

-1SS1 
-2474  (2) 

-247X 
-4951' 
-302(1'' 
-2-1X2  (3) 
-3034  ( 1 ; 

-3009 

-2X19'' 
-1337 

PKOV  14 
-14X9 

-37(1'' 
-2798 
-495'' ;  813 


I'KMV  13 


4    -30091' 

19  2975 

1      24 7X  ( 
33     593 

X      127'' 
1  1  -  300(1' ' 
1 2     4 1  7'' 

1      2174 

7     2X19'' 

20  2093 

15— 281 71' 

21  3034  (3) 


PKOV   16 


I'KOV  17 


i>KOV   18 


PKOV  19 


PKOV  20 


PKOV  21 

13—886  (2) 
20—2182 

PKOV  22 
6—903  (4) 
19—2476  (3) 
23  —  1486  (8) 
28—22 1 2 

PKOV  23 
10  --22 12 

23—3025  (1);  302(1'' 
29    -SSI 
31—1918 

PKOV  24 
18—3090'' 
20—553 
31—2975 

PKOV  25 

3—307;  27 101' 

4—2545 

6—3091  (5) 
13—2210  (7) 
21  —2526  (5);  308(1  (  I) 
28—2842 

PKOV  26 

1—2820 

2—2839;  2874'' 

7—1X65 
13—2471 
18—1961  (1) 
23—2545'- 

PKOV  27 

PKOV  28 


2     334  i  I 
IS     3057'' 


PKOV   29 


PKOV   30 


i      7S 
17     SS5'-;  2533 


PKOV   31 


]•:<•(•,,  i 


2     S95  (2) 

7—315  (6) 

9-2546  ( 1  , 

17—1961   (1  i 


Kcci.  2 


1     -S95  (2 1 
6      1  193 


KCCL  3 

1  -895  (2);  247X'- 


Km.  5 

1  -11251' 

IX  -X951' 

Km,  7 
6— 50X1';  2975 
17—3090'- 

Km,  8 
4   -2833  (3) 
12  — 8121' 

Km,  9 

2  -593'';  3090  (5) 
7  -3088  (2) 

Km,  10 
19— 30XX  (2) 

4     -670  (6 1 


CANT  1 

7     2S371' 
14     -4321';  X07  (2.) 

CANT  2 

1—1X93'';  2750'- 
1     3X41' 
7     2508  (4  ) 
11—2526  (4) 

CANT  3 

2     250X'- 
6— 24271' 

CANT  4 

1-1249'' 

5  —  1179;    1X931' 
11—2052 
12—2709 


3422 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


CAXT  5 

ISA  6  —  continued                                             ISA  15 

1     3si" 

8—2019  (3);  3014  (5)                           2—418  (5) 

3—  S7S 

9—2517  (2) 

7—  3085b 

CAXT  7                              10-SS6  (2) 

ISA  16 

o—o79;  1320  (5)                                      ~9"  .                                                  2—259 

IsA  7                              14—1395 

CANT  8 

4—2461;  25SS 

6-2708  (1);  2709                                (;___s,    4) 

ISA    I/ 

S—  255.-,  (3)                                              9—2465  '                                                  6-2185  (2) 

10-2040;  27S91'                                     10—303.) 

14-478;     145S    (2);     2464    (3);      13-2975(21) 

6—1676" 

2518-';  2725(3);  3051";  3053" 

ISA  18 

10—  25S1  (2)                                        '  is—  1121;  1423 

2—736  (13);  3122 

11—1020;  1538(2);  2559";  2648";     20  —  1321  (8);  27.-)ll> 

4—  214" 

2052";  2683  d  i 

13-341                                                                        Isv  8 

ISA  19 

16-1042  (1)                                            1-1885";  2297" 

1—1454  (4) 

18—1292  (3j;  2405;  2547                      5—2791  (2) 

(5—524 

19—  2175b 

8-2040 

7—736 

22-2793;  30S71'                                      13—2082" 

9—  3077b 

°3       1SS1'                                                            "'  —  -  '*'•> 

10—1117 

25—  251:,'' 

19—296";   612;    (590;   2102;   2166 

14—881  (IV) 

Isv  2 

(1);  2562  (3) 

18—302  (2);      912  (20);       1491; 

U  \   9 

292(5" 

1—2459" 
2—  977*;  2046                                      6—31;    1458(4);    2040;    2453b; 

25—009  (5) 

3—1690";  25S1  (2) 

24(55  (8);  2780                                                         ISA  20 

4—2109" 

10—521"                                                     1—2693 

6—  GS7  (3) 

12—1294" 

2—403";  2112 

10—1236 

ISA   10 

ISA  21 

IS—  1454  (4) 

3—1236 

3     2207 

22—  21551';  21S9 

5—292";   1257  (5) 

6—1311  (I) 

ISA  3                                 10—1454  (4; 

ISA  22 

2—  1964                                                   14—612 

1  3—  2G661' 

6—1518  (4)                                          17-1891  (3);  2975  (21) 

15—2891  (1) 

10  -2",()2                                                   -()  ~2592 

18—1168" 

11-812                                                                          Isv  11 

22—1793;  2780 

1  —  1(523  (4);  2020  (5j;  2123 

23—123(5" 

16-127(1)                                                2_2Q40 

ISA  23 

21-2155"                                                   ;_20Q3 

3—2768 

ISA   5                                   5—  S77  (4);    19171'                                   IS—  3003  (4) 

1—  7S;   10S5;  2213    2                            9—2665 

ISA  24 

2—  30S7  (2)                                            10—  3S4  (2);   123S 
8-2592(3)                                            11-1458" 

is     315  (4) 

10-38                                                       11  --2465  (8) 

ISA  25 

11—881 

ISA   13 

6—976  (4);  3087  (4) 

12—880" 

8—2207 

7—3047 

14—1236 

10—  312s 

ISA  26 

16—1258  (3);  2682" 
20—308  1 
22—3087" 
23—  4ss" 

20—2948 
21—828 
ISA   14 

4—3034  (3);  3035  (5) 
19—97(5    (4);     986    (1);      1888b; 
2499  (4);  2563;  2(565" 

25—3113  (1) 

4—2470  (3) 

ISA  27 

26—384  (2) 

5—2702 
9—2761" 

1—309  (2);  311  (9) 

ISA  6 

12—299  (5) 

ISA  28 

1—61  (4);  264S" 

13—701 

1—881 

3—1129 

14—  (571  (9) 

2—3075 

4—1466" 

15—975 

4—1109  (4) 

5—1404                                                  23—484" 

9—3076 

6—2684"                                                 30—2557"                                                 14—1387" 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


3423 


ISA  28     rnntiniifd                                              ISA   38 

ISA  47 

10—  25  191'                                                   8—841;  29X1  b 

2—1805 

23—2409;  2470  (3)                                 12—2948;  2977 

8—  1929b 

24  —  1341;  22  1  3  <  2  i                                 14—  2X72 

9.11—1904  (4) 

29     2474  (3) 

17—1134  (0)                                            13-303  (3);  332  (G) 

ISA  29 

21  —1109  (0);    1122b 

ISA  48 

22—494 

4  —  012;  090 

4—514;  2129b;  2804  b 

8—1440 

ISA  39 

10—2545 

10—  281  7b 

1—307 

21—1932  (2) 

11—  2709'  ' 

ISA  40 

ISA  49 

15—2192  (G) 
10—  242G1' 

1—678 

1  -322  (3);  1258 

23—  2G821' 

5  —  1238 
11—  5041';  125X  (G);  2701 

2—2020  (G) 
4—017 

ISA  30 

13—2050 

0—2235 

1—2000  (3 

22—315  (3) 

10—2247 

8—  18851' 
10—2921   (7) 

27—  1781b 
28—1011  (2);  21X9  (4);  3033'1 

ISA  60 

3—485 

14—  2425'-;  242G1' 

ISA  41 

4—2020  (G);  2578  (4);  2740b 

15—13X0  (3);  2105 

4—3034 

0—418  (G) 

24—  24691' 

7—737                                                     1  1  —978  (3) 

28—1572 

8-2020  (0);  2740  (G) 
10—  1089b 

ISA  51 

33—  522b 

02—1129                                                 10—1353  (G) 

ISA  31 

25—  2424b                                               17—881  (IV) 

20—144 

1—1257  (o) 

ISA  42 

3—2189  (3) 
7  -1454  (4) 

1—013    (5);     1258    (4);     25  Is; 
2579 

ISA  62 

11—323;  2507b 

ISA  32 

4—977  (2) 

12—  2479b 

1  —13X7 

0—  10S9'1;  2020  (G);  2592 

13—  (57  (4);  2041 

2  -3075 

8—1238  (7);  1258  (4) 

1  5—2547 

11—2924 

9-1129 

ISA  53 

22—  28191' 

3—  37b 

ISA  33 

25—3113  (1) 

4—  G7  (4) 

13—2479 

14—  28G41- 
17—  1387b 
21—523;  524  (3) 

ISA  43 

2-2479'-;  3075 
9—1129 

!()  -2020  (G) 

5—  017;  1021;  1404 
0—72 
7—882;  1GG2  (r);   2023;   2025 
8—  1577b 

ISA  34 

10—2039;  2051  (11) 

4—308  (SJ 

11—1300 

7  -30S41' 

1—2020  (0) 

12—1063 

11—  484'-;  2145  (5);  2297'- 

0—3034 

ISA  54 

13—828 

8—1258  (4);  1200  (G) 

14—  24791' 

14—309;  2144 

24—  1507b 

15—  273Gb;  2737  (3) 

25—300  (3) 

ISA  55 

I                A  C 

1—  510b;  2052;  3088  (2) 

SA  45 

ISA  35 

11—2021 

7—  20GG;  22471' 

5—2484  (2) 

12—  G05b 

8—  2479b 

7—  GO  (I);     1()42>>;     24X5;     2095 
(2);  3158  (8) 

ISA  56 

ISA  36 

9—  2426b 

1—  2632b 

3—289  (1) 

13—  1089b 

3—2408 

10—527  (4j 

15—739 

10—882 

ISA  37 

21—1782;  2005 

11—  2763b 

10—310  (8) 

22—013  (5) 
23—1258  (4) 

ISA  67 

22—2401 

2—975 

27—  1293b 

ISA  46 

4—2093 

29—  2155b 

1—299  (5);  418 

8—2150 

30—3051 

4—  2479b 

15—  1012b;  2547b 

38—2750 

11—477;  3034  (3) 

19—  546b 

3424 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


ISA  58                                                       JKK  3 

JKK  13 

3—24                                                        3—1128 

11—877  (4) 

8—1238  (7)                                              8—  376" 

13—881  (IV) 

9—1111                                                   14—  2558" 

18—2514 

ISA  59                              Iti—  327" 

21—2207 

3—2348                                                                           JER  4 

23—2547 

4-3020                                                     ^2^5 

25—  20  1C, 

19- 

-3017"                                                   3-1307(5, 

JKK  14 

20-2519"                                                 11-1597" 

4—2409" 

ISA  60                              21—384  (2) 

7—  376" 

1- 

-1892  (4)                                            22—3089  (2) 

14—2579 

5— 

-2542"                                                 25  —  477 

19—2019  (3) 

7      1230                                                                               .li.-»   fi 

JKK  15 

8- 
21- 

-2395"                                                   5_3127 
-2547  (1)                                          16—  2515b 

1—2019  (4) 

ISA  61                               17—1123 

JKK  16 

1—618;    2020-  ;    2433   (5);    2456     24—  505  (3) 

11  —  15X9  (l>) 

(7);  2518;  3014  (5) 

16—1115 

3- 

-1321  (7)                                                                     JI:H  6 

19—1258  (3j 

8- 

-2648"                                                   1—2924  (1) 

JKK  17 

ISA  62                                10—657" 

1—1885";   2297"-;   2900";   3114"; 

4-2508  (4)                                            l4-1349 

3119- 

11- 

-1932  (2)                                              20-2559" 

0—  22  171' 

28—514 
ISA  63                               .>()     o^j.">b 

10—2710" 

_j,  7  ^.)-tt> 

11—2254 

1- 

-1089";   2592;   3087  (2)                                           JKK  ? 

18—2032" 

9-1932  (2);  3014  (5)                                                                                  j  23_28g4 

10~2842b                                                 16-1589 

26—2649 

ISA  64                               is     2514" 

JKK  18 

6—  252  I1'                                                 21—2643  (I);   2648  ( 
8—  2426"                                                 22—1538:  2666" 

2—89;  2424";  2426";  240  11' 

5  2484  (  2  i 

ISA  65                              28—3026" 

-1803 

1-609(5)                                              31-1113"-   1256(C); 

2000" 
22—2819" 

4—861  (it)                                                                      JKK  8 

5 

-2155";  2666"                                      6—2558 

JKK  19 

11—  299  (4);   593;   1152                          7—  2863";  2874" 

2  -89 

16- 

-115"                                                  8—1082  (2);  1590:  : 

,0X9  (2)                5—1113";  2075  (4) 

17- 

-977  (2);   1354  (<))                            11  —  1349 

11  -2426b 

21-3051                                                                            JEK  9 

,!KK  20 

ISA  66                                  3—3026" 

2—2456  (5) 

1- 

-2190  (3)                                            17—530 

7-2460 

7—2207                                                  25—657  (3) 

9—2433  (X) 

18- 

26—418;  657  (4) 

JKK  22 

22—977  (2)                                                                       ... 

24- 

-723;  978 

13—1022 

1—1590  (l>) 

23—2207 

2—300  (b)  ;  303  (//) 

30—1577  (3) 

13—315  (6) 
5-2495  (M                                            17-2788" 

JKK  23 

9-2093                                                  2Q__294S 

2  -2921  (9) 

11     308"                                                   04  —  2113  fi) 

5—2020  (5);  2040" 

18—2897" 

6—2465 

0                                                       JKK  11 
JKK  2 

9—881  (IV);  2047" 

2_997"                                                     6-2433  (5) 

13—2672'' 

13—659  (3)                                              13—1256 

16—2459;  2579 

18-2768                                                  15-2897" 

23—2192  (6) 

22-2820"                                                 20-1589 

24—2190" 

28—1256  (Hi)                                                                 JEK  12 

25—2460  (3) 

32—2201"                                                   2—1797" 

29—706 

33—3011                                                  9—1444 

33—528 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


JEU  24                                                    JKK  36 

LAM  3  —  continued 

1—573;   1577  (3)                                     1—2463  (6) 

27     3127 

2—1109  (4)                                              2—2248 

29—2093 

7—  2547b                                                 23—  2900'-;  3122:; 

L\\i  4 

9—2470  (3)                                            30-31471' 

2—242(1'' 

JKK  25                                                      •l";ii  37 

5-2559(3)                                              5-573(11) 

EZK  1 

10-553;  2052'-                                      15-2456  (5) 

2   -1071'' 

12—1590  (())                                                                    JKK  38 

3  -2460  (2i;    2578  (4);    25 

1"'—  1074                                                   21—2578  (4) 

K/K  2 

25—922  (17) 

10-376  (3);  3122'- 

JKK  39 

JKK  26 

3—1962  (1);  2522 

EZK  3 

6—2769 

14—2460  (2);  2579 

10—2933 

JKK  41 

24—1072 

18—2409'' 

5—1510  (b) 

26     2578'' 

JKK  28 

JKK  43 

K/K  4 

16—2461 

7—912  (IS) 

1—2900'1;  3120 

8—2359  (3) 

9—417'' 

JKK  29 

9—2903 

12—882'' 

1  —  1577  (3) 

JKK  44 

14  —  16 

5  —  1071  (b) 

1—2050;  2239'' 

EZK  5 

JKK  30 

6—3113  (1) 

2—1074 

2—2463  (6) 

15—913  (22) 

K/K  7 

9—2040'' 

17—2081  (b);  2514'' 

12—  75b 

13—2026 

30—912  (19j;  2903 

22—2711'' 

JKK  46 

EZK  8 

JKK  31 

1  1—2020 

3.11—1455  (4) 

5—3051                                                   14—2050'' 

12—592;  1452;  2192 

9-609  (5)                                          20-1367" 

14—2908 

15—2517 

.Tvij    d.7 

16—  25U'> 

9->  9S'}71>                                                                                                       ""'"    *" 
-,  •>.&] 

17—2156 

29—977    (h);     1824'-;     2470    (2); 

2665  (2)                                                                     jKlt  48 

KZK  9 

3  —  2455 

31—468    (2);     925    (III);     2022;      1  1  -2818;  30X7  (4  > 

9  -2192 

2517;  2066  (4)                                28—2395'' 

32-729                                                                          JER  49 

EZK  11 

33—2547                                                   24—2207 

5  -2460  (2) 

34  —  26651'                                                 31  —  2947'' 

EZK  12 

35-  -301  (fe)                                               32—1320  (2) 

S.I  1—2401 

37—307(6)                                               35—922(17) 

22—2470  (2) 

38—2666  (6) 

JKK  51 

EZK  13 

JKK  32                              20—575  (18) 

1—2047'' 

2-2456  (5)                                            59—573  (10) 

2—1080;  2459  (1) 

14—4886  (14);    2228'';    2900''                                       ,,,K  52 

3—2578  (4);  2579 

35-2453  (4) 
38-2547''                                                   4-2.8,   ,2) 

10—  3038b 

18—1793 

•)]  —  i  ]  ]  ] 

39-468(2)                                          .„_,„_,. 

EZK   14 

JKK  33 

1—2878  (2) 

LAM   1 

6—2558'' 

11—2649 
15—2020  (5) 

14—  16791';    1687  (3);  2563; 

(2) 

16—2465 

LAM  2 

\w  ' 

18—2041                                                 11—1236  (3);  1900 

EZK  16 

22—306  (6)                                              12—3088  (2) 

4—2874 

25—301  (b)                                              14—  1824>>;  2578  (4) 

10—377;  220  lb 

12—  11271' 

JKK  35 

LAM  3 

31—1395 

6—881;  2535  (2) 

15—484;  3110 

44—2470 

16—2554  (1) 

25—2180 

61—1080 

3420 


E/.K  17 


17 
18 
22 
23 


247  lh 
2243  (1  1 
27S7  (2) 
728 
1079 
1080 

E/.K  18 
0771.;  mxi  ;  2470  (2); 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 

E/.K  29 
19—2903 


-2400 


1 

26 
41 
49 

10 
21 
26 


E/.K  19 


E/.K  20 

2878  (2) 

2453  (4);  26061' 

2682h 

1072 

E/K  21 

223(ih 

296''-;  331   (1);  2466  <]  i 

1080 

2040h;  276s1' 


E/.K  33 

1—2921  (8) 
11  —  1042;  2559'' 
1 o     2  109 
20—2665  (2) 
22—2093;  2570 
32—1072 

E/.K  34 

6— 27631' 
23—2040'' 
26—1080 

E/.K   36 
13—2164  (ii 
23  —  1081;  2(182'' 
25—390  (3);  2547  (1);  25  IS1' 


E/K  22 

31—2(1(1(1     I 

18—514;  2011;  25(5'' 

E/.K  37 

26—2451 

28—3038'' 

1      076  (4);  2579 

15—  10741' 

E/.K  23 

24—2040 

1—1292 

E/K  38 

3—517'';  2923 

11—1140 

4    -2181 

12     (175 

25—  S86  (1);  2155'' 

1(1—  26S21' 
17—  10S01' 

33—881   (IV) 

22     522 

41  -2015  (III) 

K/.K  39 

E/.K  24 

4—1080'' 

2-2461 

21  —  123S 

11—  26271' 

27—  20X2'- 

15—  10711' 

E/K  40 

17—  1125h 

1—2579 

25—1072 

2—1078  (,l) 

E/K  25 

3—2545 

16—2378  (III) 

38—2640 

KZK  26 

K/K  42 

5—1  1  1  5 

16—2545 

K/.K  27 

E/.K  43 

7—884 

1—1078 

12—  2044lj 

2—1237  (6) 

13—535 

E/.K  44 

17—2237 

22—2520 

4—1075 

6—2451 

EZK  28 

9—  656b;  1077  (d) 

13—603  (3) 

15—2875 

25—2682'' 

20—403  (5) 

26—3051 

21—881 

-327 

-2050  (4) 
-22571' 
-1080 


-1078  (,/) 
-HIT) 
-2020 


1 

3 

4 

X 

11 

21 

1 

3 
ID 
35 
41 

I  1 


21 


10- 
13- 

14- 
25- 

1- 
5- 

7- 


E/.K  45 

E/K  46 
E/.K  47 

E/K  48 


DM.  1 

-785  (5) 
-2030 

-27021-;  300(>'> 
-8X1 
-2030 
-78(1 

DM,  2 

-2576 

-875 
-296 
-514 
-242(1'' 
-977;   1021)  (1);   1X05 

DM.  3 

-878  (4) 

DNL  4 
-1012  (10) 
-223 
-1042 
-2128  (5 1 
-2180  (5);  2179'*;  24X3  (4) 

DM,  5 

-368  (40) 
-155'' 
-4331' 
-2032 

DM.  6 

-2430b 

-786 

DM.  7 
-786  (2) 
-28291' 
-1541' 
-301  (1; 
—162'-;    977;    1630;    2041    (/>); 

2346 

—1026  (1);  1805  (3) 
-306 


DNL  8 

-786 

-91  (1);  92  (b) 

-93  (7) 


INDEX  OK  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


DM,  8—  continual 


Hos  6  —  roniinnnl 


8—450  (2)                                                0—1020    (c);     1538    (2);     2559'-;        1-2401 

9—151'-                                                           2048'-;       2(552'';       2(583      (1);       2-7(54 

13—30(5;  982'-                                                  2845                                                     5-2702 

15—  258  11'                                                                          II  os  7 

17—  2829'-                                                   1—2072''                                                                           AM  2 

21-45(5  (3)                                                                        llos  8                                 7—1448 

25  —  2453''                                                      -  i  ^<s                                                       8  —  880'';  2109 

DNL  9                               12-1430;    1538  (2; 

1-S1                                                                                II()S  9                                                         AM  3 

2-400  (1);  550;   1882  (1)                     j   ()  __?22                                                   2     (513  (5;;   977;   20(55(2;;  3113 

2-1    -2709''                                                   7-257<T 

(1) 

25—2039                                                   10—1109  (4) 

0—00  (1);  2G95  (2) 

27  -982" 

7—124  (5);  1130 

DNI.  10 

Hos  10 

8—24(50;  2719  (2j 

5—542;  1448 

10—545 

1      '™                                                    11-009";  2102";  2409"                         12-121   (4; 

.';;:;.  •                         12-102";  1307  (5)                 13-123" 

14—2748                                                   15—79  (7) 

1  ,-)  —882 

10     2207 

Hos  11 

AM  4 

20-450(2)                                                 1-2(583(1)                                              4—121" 

21—2453"                                                   2—545                                                       0—505  (3) 

1-1572                                                   11—123" 

DNL  11 

12-1090 

AM   5 

28—450  (4)                                                                      I1()S  12                                0—123" 

31—37(5;  982"                                              1—2183 

8—311   (10;;  313  (2) 

DNL  12                               2—1554  (4) 

15—2000  (4) 

1—723;  787;  97(5  (5);  978    (3j;       0—  2558" 

10—530 

2499  (12);  2502;  2503;  2005"      11—545 

18—977;  24(55 

4-2709"                                             :  12-102" 

21—124;     1391     (3;;      1594    (3); 

0—300  (7)                                                                      Hos  13 

2052";  200(5";  2(584  (5) 

11—982" 

2—542";  5152 

24—3075 

8—417";  584  (2) 

25—298  (I)2;   1020  (c);  2897  (5) 

Hos  1 

14—970  (4) 

20—372  (10) 

~ 

AM  6 

»)"       "•)  1  — 

Hos  14 

1—123 

Hos  2 

2—54(5";  3112 

0—880" 

1  —2404 

3—1428 

7—381" 

3—2112 

4—  370b;  2547";  3034  (1) 

12—2109" 

0—1428 

13—122  (3; 

s     1250 

,]()  10  1,    1 

AM  7 

12  —  1  12)5 
14—99" 

2—1088  (2) 
7—1123 

1—2093 
2—2019  (3) 

15  —37 

8—3051" 

3—3034 

II  os  3 

13—1099" 

12—124  (5) 

1  -2527- 

14—2082  (1) 

13—542";   1537  ((5) 

4—1450 

JOKI,  2 

14—125;  2400  (4);  2877 

5—2040 

2—  (571  (S) 

15—125 

Hos  4 

13—2202;  2(548";   3034  (1) 

10—123" 

1-1420;   1427";  302(5" 

17—1093  (f/);  2020                                                          AM  8 

12—2(59  (4);  331  (1);  2842 

20—1690  (3)                                              5—124 

14      1391   (3);  20(5(5" 

28—2517  (3);  2518";  2579 

10—418" 

30—309 

AM  9 

Hos  5 

32—321  (1) 

2—2189  (5) 

3    <.) 

,]<)KI,    3 

0—315  (0) 

Hos  6 

1—1693 

9—977 

1-122";  24(55 

0—1305 

11—122";  2040;  2104  (3) 

2—97(5  (4) 

10—2409" 

12—2112 

3—215;  505  (3) 

14—1694  (/) 

13—2409 

4—545 

18—2052;  2778  (2) 

14—3051 

3428 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


OB                                                         NAH  3 

ZKCH  6 

1—2878  (4)                                            1—  292b 

1—3031  (3);  3137b 

10—2174  (3)                                              5-2112 

9—1748 

8—295;  2110 

11—2041 

Jox   1 

13—1748;  2443 

2—2433  to)                                                                        HAH   1 

ZKCH  7 

l7-3082b                                                 1    -2578(4)                                          u_2780b 

J(w3                               13-1782                                                   12-556;  2579 

3—540  (4)                                                                           119 

8—25580                                                         .,._  ,                                                                          ZK('H  8 

10—2558 

6—2189  (4) 

4—1313;  2465;  25191' 

8—  1089b 

11  -1238;  2605b 
MIC  1 

23—1258  (3) 

Is      1577 

1—2578  (4) 

ZKCH  9 

16—885                                                                             HAH  3 

9  -20401';  2348;  2404  (3) 

MIC  3                                5~494h 

10—233  (3):  410b 

3—614                                                                                                                       13—1305;  2465  (S);  313Sb 

5-2093;  2466b 

17—2703;  3088 

8-2579                                                 17-11  OS" 

ZKCH  10 

ll—488b 

12—2040                                                                          ZKPH  1 

4—233  (3) 

11—2702 

MIC  4                                2  -1753  (3) 

1-20460                                                    -3144                                                                      ZECH  11 

2-2581  (2)                                           12-17520 

12—1766  (4) 

3-2409'1                                               15—671  (S; 

ZKCH  12 

4—1109;  3051                                                               yjK1Ml  2 

1—2495  (4) 

5-1255  (a)                                              5-2378  aiD 

3—1109  (2) 

8~2107                                                 11-3146(2) 

4—1901  (I) 

1  3-5  14                                                   14—485 

ZKCH  13 

MIC  5 

ZKPH  3 

0—2402  (4) 

1~2464(3) 

2-2040 
3-1458  (4) 

7—2519 

9—2545 

11—20460 

ZKCH  14 

MIC  6                                                     "'«'  1 

5—121  (0) 

5—2778  (1)                                              ]  ~1078  (c)                                             Hi—  609  (5);  977b 

0—2019  (1);    203S;    20521';    26X4                               uA(i  2                                20—2666  (6) 

(5) 

(i—  629;  833;   131  S  (4) 
8—1257;    26  IS1';    2666  (4);    2799        -     8o9b                                                        '  --41() 
9  -2020 
10—1318 

9—  10S9b;  2476  (3)                              23—2040                                                                        Mu'  3 

15—  21Slb                                                                                                                            sr.>.   , 

~ooo  j    1  UO  1 

16—2193  (4) 
ZKCH  1 

2—  25471';  2820b 

MIC  7 

5—1022;  1395;  1904 

1—3137  (3) 
1-1109(4)                                            6-24610 

4—2975 

6—303  I 
10—315  (4) 

6-2556                                                                       ZK™  3                            16-16940 

11—2046                                                     1    -1748  (1);  2095  (2)                                                  MAL  4 

16—2093                                                          -107S  (c);  2040;  2041                       2—  301 

18—1292  (3)                                              9—327                                                       6—2562 

10  -1109  (2);  3051 

XAH  1 

8—2151                                                                           ZECH  4 

Mr  1 

15—2111                                                     6—  2S421' 
v        o                              14—2443 

16—3052 
18—3016;  3055  (1) 

NAH  2                                                                                            19—1632  (3);  1998 

5—  27871'                                                                         ZKCH  5                             20—  1410b 

6—2151                                                     1-3137  (.3)                                            21—  618b;  1134  (10);   1265 

11  —  2921'                                                     9  —  3088b                                                 22  —  2479  (2);  25181' 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


3429 


MT  1 — continued 

23— 251S 
24—1741 
25—519;  2003 


1   -2S4S 

2—1633  (3) 

5—2479;  25 IS 

G— 2453 

7—1134  (10);   1633b 
11— 618b 

16—1741  (r);  1962  (2) 
17—1291  (5);  2517 
19— 13811' 
23—2123 

MT  3 

2— 2558b;  2657 

3— 2479b 

4—736   (17);   87(5   (2);    S77   (.4;; 
1909  (5) 

6— 3SS 

7— 396>>;  1635;  2571  (J>) 

8— 255S1' 

9—2665  (2);  2666  (1) 
11—387;  394(3);  399>>'';  40!  (4); 

6 IS1';  2548b 
12— 990b;  25021' 
14—1635;  1710b 
15— 1846h;  2176 
16— 396h;  1410b;  3016 
17—609  (2);  2827  (5);  30551' 
35—2683 

MT  4 

1—50  (3);    154  (3);    1635;    1806 
(4);  2122b 

3—2827  (5) ;  2943  (5) 

4—1476;   1635;    1757;  2346 

5—2944 

7.10—1635  (11) 
13—1639  (2; 

17—1263;    163!)  (3);    2431 
18—1117 
23— 1640b;  1805;  2063 

MT  5 

1—2734 

3-426;    2559b;    2734  (2i;    2X42 

6—1291  (5);  1440 

8—2547 

9— 2293b 
11— 419b 
13— 2664b;  2700b 
17—72   (3);  336   (2);    1096   (11); 
12GOb;     1844b;     1880b;    2519 
18— 1857b;  3125h 
19— 14751';  1X45 
20—102  (</) 
21—782;  2800 
22—853;  2523;  3038 
23—1133;  1928  (r/);  2652  (1) 


24- 

27- 

28- 

29- 

32- 

34- 

36- 

37- 

38- 

39 

40- 

41- 

43- 

45- 
46- 
18 


1— 


ID 

11- 

12- 

13- 

16- 

17- 

19 

•2-2 

24- 

27- 

32- 

33- 


1- 
6- 

7- 
11— 

12- 
14- 
22- 
23- 
24- 
26- 
29- 

4- 

6- 
11- 
14- 
16- 
17- 
20- 


MT  6 — continued 
2536b;  2(552  (1);  265(i 
294(ih 

1340;  2509 
2030;  2735  (3) 
S651';   1329;   1999'- 
21721';  2173  (4) 
1321  (7) 
2009b;  3126  (2) 
1643b;  2504b 
600 

877  (3) 
2970 

•1029'1;  127S;  1S45  (/)•  2133; 
2683- 
2668 
2920b 

1261  (1)-';  1262;  17S2;  2321 
(3) 

MT  6 

10  lb;   1782;   2429;   2735; 
3111b 
•2668  (7) 
1964  (6);  2559b 
1261;  1262h;  1490;  1920b; 
2190 

628;  1630 
•777 
2668 
138 
26 

2063 
2627 

2667  (5) ;  2805 
1972b 
2850 
•609  (2) 

26;    1278;    24X2  (3j2;    2541b; 
2801  (11) 

MT  7 

-2735  (c) 

-1928  (d);  2652  (1) 

1815;  2431 

609    (2);     1261     (1);     1264; 

2338;  2347 
-10291';  1845b 
-2668  (7) 
-989 

-990;  1130;  2503 
-527  (5) 
-804 
-336  (2);  618;  20211' 

MT  8 

-619;  2652b 

-2207b 

-610b;  1262  (5);  2667  (2) 

-2210  (7) 

-10671' 

-2742  (7) 

-16451';  2829 


MT  8 — cnntinnrti 

'  22 — 812b 
I  23—448  (G) 

27—2064  (6) 

32—1166 

MT  9 

2—423  (2);  1135 

6—336  (c);  2236 

8— 1796  (2) 
10—1641 
11— 2009b 

13—1096  (11);  2(552  (1) 
14—26;  1104 
16—1148  (1) 
17— 509b;  2814 
20—128;  1374 
23—513  (6);  2668  (7) 
29—1067 
32— 8S2b 
35—1646  (4) 

MT  10 

5—2667  (4) 

6— 2320b 
11—1004  (1) 
12—1096  (10) 
13—397 

14— 1125b;  1433  (5) 
17—197  (4) 
22— 2112b 

23— 9S3b;    16461';    1792  (1) 
25—423 

28— 986b;  992  (6);  2497  (3);  2501b 
29—1131;  2839b 
30—1320  (3);  2189  (5) 
32— 336b;  2021b 
35—520'-;  1933 
37—1785  (1) 
38— 761b 
39—1889  (1) 
41— 205S;  2113 
42— 1029b;  1433  (5) 

MT  11 

-16461' 

-20421' 

-2063;  2064 

-2434  (6) 

-1644;  1711   (2);    2667  (3) 

-305 lb 

-11681' 

-881;   2009;    2668  (8);   2920b; 

3088b;  3091  (5) 
-2504 
-2427b 
-2502 
-1315  (6) 

-348b;  2105;  2431;  2479h 
-609;    618;     1261;     1889    (7); 

2021b;  2827  (7);  3016  ilO) 
-336b;  458  (2);  2022;  2347 
-1439  (c);  2922  (ID;  3127 


1- 
3- 
4- 
9- 

11- 

12 

16- 

19- 

20 

21- 
22 
23- 
25 

27 


3430 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


MT  12 

MT  15  —  continued 

MT  19  —  continued 

1—1845  (2) 

26—2667  (4) 

5—1037'' 

6—3111  (4) 

36—  243  11' 

6—1095 

8—14  (2) 

37—1144 

8—764 

10—  3098b 

40—2006 

9—  8651'2;   1999  (4) 

18—2742  (7) 

MT  16 

13—2432 

22—  882b 

14—393'' 

23—114 

2—3077 

16—1846'' 

24—  154b;  423;   1068 

4—  172S 

28—990;    1354   (X);    2503;    2546 

28—1067;    1134  (9);    1263;   3016'' 

5-2363  (4) 

(1);  2562 

31—486;  1412 

6—  1862b 

29—1889  (1);  2112'- 

32  —  2502b 

13—323;    1(528'-;    2X30  (2) 

33—1703;  2652  (1) 

14—  20  121' 

MT  20 

34—2347 

16—609     (2;;  741      (2);      1262>>; 

1—1654'';  1782 

38—1644;  2565  (1) 

2042'';  2827  (5) 

3-534  (2) 

40—1115  (2) 

17—624  (2);  1067''  ;  1119  (5) 

15  -2805 

41—1728;  2502 

18—482;     (551;     652=;     1315    (7); 

18—619 

42—2067;  2515 

1648  (5);  2350;  2667  (4) 

19-2565  (1) 

43—828 

19—  4741';   1  ():•>();   1133(5);   17931'; 

20—1486  (11) 

46—  51Sb;  1741  (c);  2002 

1791;  1795  (4);  1796  (4) 

22    -391  (3) 

21—2565  (1) 

25—335  (3);  1028 

MT  13 

22—1649;  2013 

2(5   -482  (1);  129  11' 

3—  420h 
Hi  wn  -*^h  •    ono  1  b  •    *>  i  A  r:  •    »)o  i  1 

24—619;    761h;    SSI1';    17S5  (1) 

o~       iL'on   s  i  \  •   o~ii!i 

28—1135   (12);     1785   (1);    2022; 

—  loUD  j    &\j£  1    ,    ZlUOj    —  -  14 

J.)  —  ISX'J  (1  );  J.)41 

2043;    2o31;    26o3=;    283  <b 

14—2517  (2) 

27—609  (2);  2571  (9) 

29—406'' 

18—2244'' 

28—1262  (.I; 

MT  21 

19—2694 

22—  612b 

MT  17 

9—2012 

24—2053;  2479b 

2—  18911' 

12—  383b;  lS4tib 

30—1976  (3) 

4—2898 

IS—  1109  (4) 

31—  2101b 

5—60!)  (2) 

19—1(555  (Ij 

33—  1862b;  2243  (1) 

9—619;  2565  (1) 

22-2131 

35—1479'' 

11—  2562 

23     -33(5'' 

37—154'' 

19—1349  (2) 

25—394 

39—980 

20—2102;  2189  (4) 

29—2558'' 

40—616  (Ij;  3038 

21—26;  2432 

31      1310 

41—989'' 

23—2043 

33—2316 

47—  1115b 

24—2176;  2918'- 

34—2251  (4) 

54—2021 

27—  16  I!)1';    1S461-;   2()8()b 

42-619 

55—519;  1632 

M  T     18 

43—1262  (5) 

i.Vi.  I       J.O 

45—1656 

MT  14 

2—2(568  (6) 

2—  2042b 

3—399'';   1  7X5'' 

MT  22 

5—1646  (1 

4—1439  (r) 

4—385* 

6—1169  (5) 

6-397;  2052'1;  2129 

5—199X'' 

13—  452b 

8—990'';  1889  (1);  2(568 

11—2548 

15—515 

10—610 

12—882 

20—1144;  2015 

11—619;  2320'' 

14—2010  (2) 

23—2431'' 

12—78 

16—1380;  13X3'' 

24—2207 

15—1050;  1133 

17—1847;  2920  (4) 

36—128 

17—651;  654b;  2667  (4j;  29201' 

23—  25632;  2(559 

51—1660  (3) 

is      |74b;  (553;   1796;  2350 

25—2661 

19—75 

29—  468b;  147(5  (5) 

MT  16 

20—336'' 

30—494 

1—1846  (a) 

21—1133;  2244  (5) 

31—972  (1) 

2—  412b;    1628  (3);   2363;   3004b 

26—61 

32—975 

11—1847  (4) 

34—1133  (3) 

35—1846  (r);  2133 

14—2726  (8) 

35—1133  (5);  26(58 

37—835'';  1029  (3);  2056  (3) 

16—2429 

39—  1933b 

19—1028 

MT  19 

40—2946'' 

20—  3038h 

1—1096  (10) 

42—2042'' 

23—  2102b 

3—865;  1340;  1845 

44—2346 

24—  2320b 

4—468  (3);  2416  (1) 

45—1656  (2) 

IXDKX  OK  SCRIP-ITUE  TEXTS 


MT  23 

MT  2Q  -continued                                               MR   1 

1—1845 

29—1925  (2);   1927  (ra);   2(537'-              1  -1281 

2—330  (2) 

30—1323;  2430                                          1  -1131  (7);  2558'- 

3—2007  (4) 

30—2432(2)                                              7-1125'- 

4—458  (2);  474" 

38—2497                                                  8—387;  391  C3j;   019(1);   251s1 

7—2665 

39—2479'-                                                  10    -3(.)0;   1  110'-;  3010 

8—2350 

47—720  (4)                                               1  1      (509  (2) 

12—1439  (c) 

53—17(i(ib                                                  12    -1635;  2913 

13—1028 

54—147(5''                                                  15  -1420      (2);       2558'';       2559- 

15—  200b;   1(550;  2408 

57—1(500  (4)                                                  20572;  2(567  (2) 

17—2082  (2) 

59—  1670  (6)                                             1(5—1117;   1(539(3) 

22—2172'- 

(51—1637''                                                 21—3111'- 

23—130;    1088;    2301;    2591  (1); 

62—1671  (S)                                            22—330  (2) 

2799  (7) 

(53—009     (2);      1845  (d);     2042'-;     21—  828'-;  2123 

24—2129'-;  28(54 

2173  (4);  234(5                                27—2021 

27—2222  (7) 

04—2(53    (1);    983'-;    2251    (III':     34—2668(8) 

33—2219  (1) 

2S29b                                                  15-1010'' 

34—  20581' 

(55-2827'-                                                                           MK  2 

35—  3129b 

(56-1310                                                  3-2236" 

38—983 

(57-1169;  2000'-;  2712  (7)                   4_423  (2).  2222  (?) 

39  —  01  9 

5—1040'';  2008- 

MT  24 

70-2172'-                                                   s  _2346 

3—980 

71—2123                                                 10-33(5  (c);    2021'-;   2022 

4—982" 

72-1887  (4)                                          17-2783" 

5—019 

M  ,  97                              18—  260S1' 

MT  z  / 

6—2968" 

19—1641 

8—981  (2) 

-4")S                                                   21    -2(5;   1148  (1) 

18—877  (3) 

3—  2558'-;  2559  (2)                               22—  5091';  2*14;   30*7  (1) 

24—942;   1887  (5);   2129'- 

4—1661  (c);  2559  (2)                          ._>;,  _307;}  (3) 

27—980  (4) 

°—  S9                                                  2C)    -8;  85 

28—880 

7—2425                                                27—1004;  1029  u/>;   1042  («.) 

29-833;  983;  1792  (Ij 

9—1760(4)                                              .)S    ._o(;;5i   ,-;>).    2*29;    2916'' 

30—203  (1);  010  (1);  2829'- 

17—2885  (3) 

32—1109'' 

19—1662  (2)                                                                      MK  3 

30—1792'';   2345b;   3010  (10) 

27—117:;'-                                                    i_3()()si> 

41—510  (G);  730  (S);  2052 

35—1169  (3)                                              4—  1642b;   1858 

48—1042 

38—2972                                                     5—2571  (6);  3113  (4) 

49—880;  881  (3) 

39—529                                                    6—1284(3);  13*0;  13*3'- 

12—2365;  2943''                                    13    -1710 

\  I  T     9  5 

iVl  1      ^  <  J 

46—  891'-;  2347  (1);  2432  (3)              14—2058;  2199b 

27—383'-;  20SOb 

48—1440'-                                                 17—1707 

31—01(5(1);  2021'-;  234(5;  2502'-; 

50—489;  2445                                       21    -1412;  2002 

2829  (3) 

51—2892  (1)                                            22-423;  2094  (3) 

41—743;  2502;  2503;   3038 

52—1004                                                     28      180;   1412 

40—1889;  2571  (8);  2008 

54—009  (1);  2827  (4)                          29—782;  2502'' 

MT  26 

(52—2437                                                  30—1133 

2—  (519 

03—  1064;  2565  (1)                               31—518";  2002 

5—2001  (2) 

00—531  (3);  2709  (3)                            34—1045 

0—2795 

MT  28                                                     MK  4 

8—2320 

1  1      ''10") 

11-2421 

1  0  —  2  1  88 
12  -2244;  2171  (3) 

12—2340'' 
17—1058  (1) 
20—385  (2) 

1  4  —  '458 
1  7      ''T'  1  (1\ 
K^^oSGS1^ 
•>G—  180(5  COV  'H79b 
18—336";    394b;   395;  396:t;   616;     f^     ^    ',/" 

23—510;  2015;  2258  (lOj 

1600  (2);  2021'-;  2829  (9) 

24—2043 

19—388;     391    (4);     392'-;     053;  !                           MK  6 

20—2022 

742;      1100'';      1899;      2053;       9—  1(545  (2);  200  1 

27—  7GGb;  1928 

2340'-;  2037  (3);   2842;   2922     12—25(54  (4) 

28—323;  489(3);  7312;  1135(12;; 

(II);  3011  (2);  3017'-;  3()20:t;      15—2820'' 

1785    (1);     2652";     2653  (2); 

3021  (22)                                          21—1284 

2054  (3) 

20—200                                                     30—1040  (3) 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


MK  5  continued 

M  K  10  —  continued 

MK  14  —  continued 

38—531  (fi) 

25—  2129b 

22—2022;  2432  (2);  2668b 

41—2904 

32—2022 

23—1928 

MK  6 

33—019 

24—731  (2);      2025;      2052     (1); 

5—  1486b 

34—2565 
35—  1654b 

2053  (2);  2055  (1) 
27—2519 

6—1040  (4) 

38     391  (3) 

3(5—59 

S—  377;  517;  1433  (5) 

42—335  (3) 

43—720  (4) 

9—2431  (1) 

45—1135   (12);    2022;    2530   (I); 

51—2178'' 

13     27831' 

2053-  ;  2830  (3) 

58—2505  (1) 

IS—  526 

Hi  -40G1' 

01      2340 

21       178 
22—  11(50'' 

MK  11 

02—2043;  2290  (1) 
(50—983 

MK  7 

1—  20211' 

07—2123 

1—2303;  3073  (3) 

12—1109  (5) 

72—2349 

14—1055  (4) 

2  —  303S 
3—  412b;  2.")()7'';  30041' 

15—  137b 

21  707h 

MK  15 

14—1001'' 

4—390;  391- 
6—  2851b 

7      '-{^0 

28—  336b 

30—394  (3) 

10—  11731' 
17—1404'' 

/  —  ooy 

22—  2S8G1' 

10—  25S2  (3) 

MK  12 

23—  30S7b 

IX—  IS47  (4) 

0—  33Gb 

20—  2021  b 

19—  S19 

8—2022 

27—2972 

20—1647 

12-105(5  (a) 

29-78  (5) 

22  —2805 

13    -13SO;  1383b 

34—2347;  2432  (3) 

26—  2886b 

14  -1847;  2920  (4) 

30—  1440b 

32—  882b 

18—2503  (III) 

37—489 

33—2846 

20   -20(51  (2) 

38—2892 

34—2432 

24—1476  (5) 

39—  (509  (1) 

MK  8 

25—980;  2505 

42—2437 

15—  1383b;   1048  (4) 

2S     2133 

44—702 

22—488;   107()b;   1G451' 

29—1933  (2) 

MK  16 

23—  1648b 

30—2050 

9—184;  39(5;  751  (r) 

27—2021 

31     -1840  (c) 

11  —  25071' 

29—019  (4);  2827  (5) 
31—  12X4'1;  2022;  2340;  2505  (1) 

30—  754b;  1475 
38     2005 

15—391  (4);   394b;   2053;   2037 
10—395 

34—2057 

40—2705 

17  —  299G1' 

38—990;  2013 

41—  383b;  005  (5) 

18—2415 

44  —  i(i,-,7 

MK  9 

19—203  (2);  015 

1—1202  (5) 

MK  13 

5—2898 

2—  2851h 

LK  1 

7—  009  (2j 

3—70  (1) 

1—  753b 

9—2505  (1);  3055'- 

5—983 

2—193(5  (2) 

12—2022;  2502 

0     877  (3j;  9S31' 

3—3053  (2) 

1  7—  XX21' 

7—  22501' 

5—2445  (1) 

29—  829b 

8   -981  (2);   1307  (5) 

10—112;  1434 

31—019  (4) 

22—98(5;   1X87  (5j 

14—477  (1) 

33—  1019'  - 

20     2013 

1  5—  393b 

35—  26(57  (-1) 

2s      1  1  09h 

17—  155b 

38—1707 

30—982;  1202  (5j;  2251  (4j 

31—094  (4);  2335  (17) 

41—1433  (5) 

32—480;      989;       1792;      2345h; 

32—1198  (2) 

42—  8811';  2052;  2129 

2828  (8,1;  301(5  (10) 

35—  1410b;       103()b;      2X27      (4); 

43—  722b;  2502 

39—2093  (2) 

3016 

50—  966b;  26G4b 

39—3054  (2) 

MK  14 

40—2497 

MK  10 

3—2795 

48—3102  (1) 

2—1999  (/» 

4—2320 

53—517  (2) 

5—1477 

7—2421 

08—2042 

15—2291 

8—2022;  23401' 

77—1134  (10) 

17—  16541' 

12—1058  (l; 

79—324 

21—2008 

10—  2021  >> 

80—1709 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TKXTS 


LK  2 

LK  6    -cunt  in  u«l 

LK  11  —continued 

1—  332';  2000  (1) 

22—1050                                                   13—1028;  2317 

2—45;  1032''  ;  1741 

2(5—2429                                                   15—423 

7—519;  1433;  2003 

27—525  (2);  3091  (5) 

20—1111'';  2(508;  301(5'- 

8—1470  (5);  2222  (7) 

29—000;  877'- 

21—2532;  2(507  (3; 

21—1840 

37—1132'- 

26—2004 

24—1033  (2) 

LK  7 

29—1309'';   1728;  2347 

25—1005;    1(531;    180(5  (.1);    2012 

31—2515 

27—1114 

5  —  2229'1;  2(522 

34—2805 

35—1032  (3) 

25—  25251' 

38     389;  390  (2; 

40  —  1034 

29  --2920'- 

11      101'' 

46—726  (3);  1859 

30   -39(5'- 

13    -2005 

49  —  2346 

32-1168'- 

19      2058;  3092 

51—2003'' 

34—2009;     2346h;     2920'-;     3088 

51—3129'- 

52—  1290'1;   1291  (3) 

(2  j;  3091  (5) 
3(5—1135;   1044  (,/; 

LK  12 

LK  3 

37—  20042;  2806 

0—  2839'' 

1—2458 

44—414'';  1125'-;  3072'- 

7—1320  (3);  2189  (5) 

2—137 

46—1004 

8—330'' 

3—  2558'1 

47—2668  (7) 

10—480;  1412 

7—2571  (0) 

50-2007;  3102'-                                    16—1801 

11—877  (3) 

LK  8 

25—2850 

12—  2789''  ;  2920'' 

31—20  (2) 

15-2042'-                                                                                                                    32    -12(52;  1420  (2);  20(58  ((5) 

10—394     (3j;     401     (4);      1125'';                                                                        35—  2908  (2  J 

2548'';  2084''                                                                                                      30—1815 

21-2479";  301(5                                      ^^  1741  <«> 

42—1795  (5);  2854 

22—009  (2);  1410'' 

45—881 

27—3147  (2) 

35—2820'' 

47—33  (1);  1309b;  2504  (4) 

38—  1111';  140'-;  (509  (1);  2820  (2) 

LK  9 

50—394  (3);  2176  (3) 

1—  1007b 

55—3080  (3) 

LK  4 

20—2827  (5) 

1—  154h;  1411b;  1035  (1) 

21—1648  (5) 

LK  13 

3—2943  (5) 

22—2565  (1J 

1—2397;  2559b 

4—147(5;  1035  (3);  23401' 

24—1889  (1);  2320'- 

2—813 

5—2944 

33—2898 

0—1109  (5) 

0—2696  (3) 

34—2222 

7—1108  (1) 

8—  1635'' 

35—609  (2) 

15—  1981b 

12—1635  (3) 

45—018 

16—2694  (3) 

16—323;  1639  (2) 

49.54—1707 

19—  2101b 

18—2439 

55—2842 

23—2503'' 

26—3132'' 

58—  1645b 

29—1202  (5) 

32—336  (2) 

62—  1645b;  2409'- 

32—1073  (7) 

34—2123 

LK  10 

LK  14 

35—1007'';  1640 

3S  —  2003 

4—2005 

7—1052  (c) 

4;  —  ,^28 

7—1030;  1395 

8—3091  (5) 

10—2133 

11—1028'';  1440 

LK  5 

15—1315  ((5) 

13—385  (2) 

1—1039  (3) 

18—2667  (3);  2695 

15—2015  (4) 

2—1117 

21—348'';    1412;    2668  (7);    3091 

1  0—2479 

18—423  (2);  2236'' 

(•">) 

26—1343'';  1933  (2) 

24—336 

22-2592  (4) 

28—234  (1) 

27—1641 

27—2050  (4) 

34—2700 

36—20  (6) 

29  —20(57 

LK  15 

37—509'';  2814 
38—881 

38—  20052;  2000 
42—2015 

4—  2320h;  2542  (5) 
11—2244  (5) 

39  —  3087  (5) 

LK   11 

13—707  (2);  22(5-1 

LK  6                                    1      2479'' 

10—507'' 

(5—  30981' 

2-1920'';  2431   i  1  » 

18—609  (2) 

11—1901  (2) 

7-423  (3) 

19—610 

20-419'';  2427  (3);  2730 

8—1402 

20—1291   (5);  200X  (7) 

3434 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


LK  15  —  coHlinut'il 

LK  19  —  continued 

LK  23  —  continued 

21—113:3  (  n;  1300b 

9—2007  (3);  2008  (0) 

43—1315;  2240  (3) 

22  —  'J.">  9  I1' 

10—323;  2320;  2921 

45—2802  (1) 

21  -2.1  IS 

11—1055;    1800  (5);   2053h 

40—480;  2407  (7) 

28—1133  (3) 

12—010  (1) 

47—2420 

32—812 

13—2420'' 

48—1(504 

LK  16 

14—  1151' 

51—1800  (1) 

20     2875 

54—2437 

1  —  1053;   1801 

23—383'';  3S42 

50—2(533 

3—425    5 

38—2293  (5) 

LK  24 

6—474 

13—383  (5)2 

11—2004 

8  —  3089 

0  —  902  (4) 

LK  20 

16—  493b 

.7               ,/  ./  w       ^     '  / 

21—2043  (3) 

I;}  1072'' 

1  —  1039 

14—2705 

2    -336b 

25—1285     (VII);      1477;      2523; 

20531' 

15—1292 

1(1  -3051 
18—1990  (5) 
10—1401  (1);   2213;   2502;   3970b 
20—494;   1*07;  2127 
23—992;  993;   131.")  (5j 

10  —  1050  (a) 
29  -2158;  2920  (4) 
22—  IS  17 
23—73  1 

27     2503  (III) 
29—2001  (2) 

27—2005  (4) 
28—203  (2) 
30—014  (2);  234(5'' 
44—4(50  (2j;  1470;  1844'1;  2519 
10  -1135  (12);  2053 

35—491;  9so>';  3100 

47—2558;  2(557 

LK  17 

30—010;  25031' 

40—2340;  2007 

2—2129 

10—2005 

51—015;  2432  (4) 

4—1133  (:j) 

47—2705 

53—705 

0-2102 

LK  21 

J  x  1 

8—881 

10—2607 

2     201  57 

1-420'-;    002  (4);    1451'";    1710; 

11  —  1653b 

18—1320  (3) 

1801'';     1014'';     2043;     2342 

20—  18001';  217S 

29—  UOO1' 

(2);    247!)'';    2480;    3020 

24—010;  080  (4);  2007  (3) 

32—2251  (4) 

3-1000  (2) 

29  -522'' 

34—880;  881 

4-1702'';  1801  (c) 

32—1931 

LK  22 

0  -302  (5);  458  (4);  018 

33—2320 

•)          .  >/'(  \  1  1( 

10-3100  (4) 

>4  —  123  (3) 
35—51(5  (0);  730    s- 

.)         _!)'.(  t 

0      105X1' 
15—2347 

1  1  -2025 
12—  (500(2);  024(7);  002'';  1703; 
2112'-;  2827;   2830;   3000 

LK   18 

is    754b;  3088  (2) 

13—418;  17042;  1784 

1—72  (3) 

10—751;    1059;    1921   (1);    1925; 

14—1034;  1040    («);     1007    (5); 

2  -178  11' 

2022;  2340'';  2C>37 

1802;    101(5;   2190;   2892  (1); 

3—  2887'  - 

20—  73  12;  2052  (1);    2(553;   27801' 

3005'',  •  302()h;  3035 

7—  1918>> 

24—  1658M 

10—1149 

8—  172'1;  010 

25—335  ^3i 

17—1847  (4);   1852h;  3020 

0—  1309'1;      2008       (7);      2715'-; 

27     3073  (3) 

18—504;    018;    092    (4);     1100''; 

2920'' 

28—  141  11';  2913 

1032;  2342 

12—1104;  2304  (4) 

29—2346 

19—380 

13—1291    (5);     17S.V-;    2107    (1); 

30    -20072 

20—  (50 

2051  (2) 

31—2095 

21—2042'' 

14—1440 

37     323;  2013 

25—2547'' 

15—2008  (0) 

39  -2432  (2) 

27—  1125b 

10—010;  2129 

1  1     2875 

20—1135   (12);    1701    (1);    1710: 

18—  400h 

52—1009  (2) 

1711;   1822'1;  2053  (\) 

22—707  (2) 

53  -1(510;   1050  (3) 

32—  14  !()'•;  301(5 

23—2559  (-2) 

00-1(571  (0) 

40—  019  (4) 

25—2129 

07—2827'' 

41—2039'' 

30—1889  (1) 

00—  083h;  2251  (III) 

45—2121;  2308'-;  2798 

33—2505  (1) 

LK  23 

46—2123 

34—018;  201:; 

2—1072  (4);  1803 

48—1109  (2) 

LK  19 

4  -2  120 

40—021;  741 

5—3129 

0—1(502 

Jx  2 

8—  1142h;      2504;      2801      (13); 

32—2072 

1—1037;  2002 

2920b 

34—1135;  13001';  2432  (3) 

8—2027;  2854 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


J.v  2  —continued 

10—881 

11—1705  (2) 

15—181(5 

19—01.-);      1060;      191(5;      2313''; 

2565  (1);  285 lb 
23— 2112b 
24-1792  (1) 

J.v  3 

1  -397'-;    1637  (3);   2141'' 
3—395;     39(5'';     609    (2);     1030 
(4)2;    17031';    2517  (2);    2801 

(11) 
5—396   (4);    1413;    1701;    1711 

(5—399  (4) 
7—398  (2);  2550 
12— 887b 
13— 2340'';  2314 
14—2562 
16— 147b;  323'' ;    1030  (2);    1261'-; 

1262;  1638;  1698  (2);  1932''-; 

2025;  2196;  2542(5);  2559b; 

2592h;  2828  (11);   3020'' 
17—1037'';  1705  (4) 
19—1699;  1701  (1) 
2(5—1710 
29—1641 
30—800 
33—2709'' 
34—618;  1701 
35—1261 
36—812;  1135'-;   1702(1);  2502'-; 

2504  (3);  2571  (6) 

JN  4 

3—1638 

6—1699  (3) 

9—158 

14—510'';  2025 
19— 2058b 
20— 285  lb 

21—613  (3);  1404b;  2719  (1) 
22—124'-;  2574 
23—1263  (6) 

24—1697  (1);   1823  (3);   2946'' 
25— 621b;  2039'';  2012b 
34—2176  (2) 
48— 2789b 

J.v  5 

1—2507  (1) 

2—423  (2);  1610  (9) 

(5—1713  (2) 
14—1134  (10);  16411' 
17—1261  (1);    1395'';  2481 
18—968;     1261b;     1475'';     2315 

2829b;  3020b 
19— 336b;  1642;  2176 
20—609  (2);  610  (5) 
22—987  (3);  990;  2828  (11) 
24— 1889b;  2801  (11) 


J.v  5  —continued 

J.v  8  —  continued 

26-1030  (3);    1697  (2);    1703  (3) 

32    -2550    (6);     2691    (3;;     3026-'; 

27—336'';  799 

3027 

28—61(5;    976    (5  1  ;     1414b;     2251 

33-2511  (2) 

(2);  2564 

31  -1881'' 

29-53  (2);  990 

30  -2686  (2) 

55—1892  (3) 

12      1262;  23  1.) 

56—609  (2) 

1  1      192  (5);  610 

59—  147(5b;  2710 

1(5     2311 

40—1(599;  2519  (IV);  30S51' 

53     609  (3) 

41—1238  (2) 

58     2311  (VI  i;  3016  (11) 

44—2429 

T            f\ 

J.v  9 

J.v  6 

2-67  (5);  2481  (5) 

4  -12611' 

3-813;  1705  (2) 

6—2:568'' 

6—2846 

14—2042'' 

22      1050 

26—1922  (2);  1927  (1) 

25—624  (2) 

27—  2709'' 

39  —  1705  (4) 

33  .  53—32:5 

41—  267()>> 

35—517;  1030  (3);   1  140 

J.v  10 

37—926  (V) 

3—276  1 

39—980;  2564 

4—2757 

40—61(5 

7  —  869 

44—1704 
45—1704  (2);  2517  (1) 
47—  619b 
48—2025 
51—1413;  1923  (4) 
53—489(3);    1889(3);    1925(4) 

9—1(551  (e) 
10—323;     2541     (2);     2592    (4); 
2801  (11);   2802;    2828  (11) 
11—2497  (7) 
12—78;  27(53'' 
1  5—  28371' 

60—1726'' 

17—323;   609  (2);   615  (3);    1923 

62—2314 
63-1704'';  2495  (2) 

(4);   217(5  (3);   2115;    3055'' 
18—336'';  2025 

(54—  1642'' 

22—  1726b 

66—1630;  2922 

2>>  —  1704 

68—624  (2) 

28—  2328''  ;  25()2b 

71—17(55'' 

29—926  (V) 

Jv  7 

30—1261'';     1204;     23452;     301(5 

3-519»;  1666  Cf);  1726b 


23—1475'' 
27— 2042b 
35—1295 

37—1413;  2025;  2142 
38— 165()b;  2670'' 
39— 26  lb;  2549 
4(5—336  (2) 
49— 1846b;  3091 
53—2203  (4) 

Jv  S 

1—1650  (r);  2509 

3—2004 

11— 1037b;   1131  (10;;   1310 
12—2025;  26701' 
15—990 
19—2345 
23— 2344b 
24—812;  2570b 
29—609  (2)' 


34-1475    1844b;  2582  (3) 

3(5-609  (2);  2682 


2 

5 

20 

25- 

27 
34- 
41- 

44- 
47- 

:,•>- 


Jv  11 

-2000b 

-20011' 

-2006 

-2005b 

-619    (5);     812'';     9S7;     2199 

(12);  2564 
-20421' 
-2006 
-2432 

-878'';  2566 
-619  (5);  18(50  (3) 
-1702;  2562 

Jv  12 

-2004b 
-2015  (4) 
-2426b 


3430 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


Jx  12~continnctl                                               Jx   16                                                Jx  19—  continued 

7—2005"                                                   2—1050                                                  38—1004  (2) 

8—2421 

5—3017                                                  39—2142  (3);  2426b 

13—2230  (3) 

7—  204'';    015    (5);     1414;    2245 

10—018 

(G)                                                                              '  N 

20—1295;   1057  (<•) 

8     708;  2500" 

23—2025 

1  i    -492  (5) 

24—611)  (.5) 

1"     01S-"    17SV  •>!()-,                            17—203(2);   015;    10(54(1);  2827 

31  -323";  2070  (I) 

13_400'                                                        (6);  2828  (11) 

32  -1038;  2502;  2592" 

14-1204"                                                    19-2033 

34—2043":  2830  (2  i 

]5     (J1S                                                    21—179(5  (2);  2199" 

11    -2742  (7) 

24-1030                                                  22~1412 

42—1050 

27-1932"                                                 23—2350;  25(59" 

43—2429 

28     2345                                                  24—  (514  (2) 

45—2345 

•>9     2105                                                  25—2455" 

4(5—2070'' 

28—741  (2);  2344 

48—1705  (4) 

JN  17                             31    -400;    807  (2);    1280";    17922; 

49^2170                                                     1—2432  (1)                                                     1889  (2);  2342'';  2343" 

JN  21 

,)\  13 

3—1889  (2);  2849  dh;    3014  ((i) 

1     015"                                                     3—1117 

1—3072";  3073  (2) 
2—2094" 

5-609(2);  231!"                              15-1823;  1932 

4—1125" 
5—412  (1) 

11-1263"                                               19-2352(2) 

•)O        ill  *',  •     1  *  U  if  ill 

7—2485  (7)                                            1-    "  1  7(5(5'-:  2320" 

14—520;  019  (5);   1929;  2070  (1)      l"^    -1005  (4) 

30-1058"                                            |  17-2654  (6);  2683  (3  J 

34—1933";  2910" 

19—1702;    1923  (4);    2431;    20X2 

38—2(570'' 

(2);   2085  (1);   3020-                       3—2003 

20  —  1030                                                     5—394  (3);  401  (1);  2548" 

JN   14                               21  —  12(54                                                     (5—754  (3) 

1—2480 

22—2344                                                     7—1792" 

2—015- 

23—1703(3)2;   1704;   1932'-                   8—900(2);   1804b;  2053 

3—1706 

20     009  (2>                                                9—203";  61.5 

6-323(2);  009(2);  987;   12(51":                             JN  18                                            '   {>™'>    1(ifis  (7]'   -a>>" 

2025;  2550  ((i);  3020                       12—2034 

8—  2368b 

9—323;   009(2;;    1201";   2345 
10—1703'';  2828  (11) 
16—330";   401;    12(54   (S);    1413"; 
1701;    2245  (0);    2549;    3017 

11—  520b;  2002  (5);    2003  (IV) 
:^-l(>09                                                   15—2112;  2008  (S);  2744 
2.24-137"                                           16-1479 
13  —  1070  (3)                                              20-482 
19     137";    1060'-;    107015'                  25—2058 
22—1845 

18—480;  9831' 

ACTS    2 

'28  —  1215h 

19—1011;  1700  (5) 

29-1072  (3)                                              3—2084'' 

20—1030  (3) 
21—1201'';  1203 

31—720;  1001  (c)                                   4—  1415";  2997b 
;$(>,_(•,-,-,.   ls(wi, 

20—618 

37—1704;  1705(4);   1803;  3020= 

28—2345 

38—3025  (1)                                             14—2990  (4) 

30—2070  (1);  2(59.5 

1(5—1(595 

J.v  15 

Jx  19                              17  —  101;  987;  2517  (3) 

5—1002  (3);  234  1                                20—2518 

1—1097;   1703-;  2(570" 

7—1001";  2345                                     23—2191  (5) 

2—2484  (5) 

10—1072  (2;                                            24—2518'' 

3—2542  (4);  2549 

14—1058  (1);   1928  (4);   2437''            27—1315  (3j;  2837" 

5-1008  (4) 

19—2123                                                  28—1131 

9—609  (2) 

23—878  (4)                                              32—015  (3);  1004  (/) 

10—009  (3);     1030;     1203;     1703" 

25—100";    519";    520;     1501    (2);     33—205  (IX);  200  (5) 

12—  2940b 

2001  (4);  2002  (4)                        30—019(6);    1803;    20431';    2653 

13—619  (5);   1923  (4) 

28—1003  (c)                                                     (3) 

16—  2199b 

29—  1446b                                              38—395;    398   (2);     1780;    2350; 

22—1701  (1)                                          30—  2837b                                                      2558;    2.559    (3);    2637    (3); 

25—2582  (3)                                           31_1865;  1928  (5)                                        2657 

20—018;  14131'2;  3017                          34—489;   702;    1240;    1003  (f)            39—388;  396  (4) 

INDEX.  OK  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


3437 


ACTS  2 — conti/iui'd 
41—020  (4);  2507  (4);  2(537 
42—1283    (2);     1850;     1925 
1927;  2037'1;  2789b 


ACTS  7 — continued 
37— 20221' 
38—1847  (1) 
48—310  (8) 


ACTS  7 

2—2852;  2853  (6) 
4—18  (II) 
(5—911  (6) 

22—403      (16);      2084b; 
3096b 


2702b; 


10—394  (3);  2518 

18—401 

19—200  (1);  230S'> 

20— 4SGb;  1790  (3) 

20—021  (1) 

27— 479b;  622  (3) 

30—2437 


ACTS  12 
4-2513 

12— 1980b;  2000  (VI) 
17— 23491' 


—\J.l    \l  1  ,     L.I  l-.l    \'*  1  i     -'III 

•)i  —  -;•>;)•» 
53—2023 

ACTS  13 

ACTS  3 

55—  G151' 

1  -45;  479 

2—  11701' 

58—2271  (2);  227s1' 

5-2002  (3);    li)80b 

13—2022  (2);  2043'1 

•  i      KM'- 

18—2519;  2053  (3) 

ACTS  8 

7—45;  2(520  (1) 

19—983;  98(5(2);   1780;  2540(1); 
255S1';  2(557 

1—  23(58'' 

9—2278 
13—1987 

20—010  (1);  2547 

I'     529'' 

14—2033 

21—094;       991;       10901';       2503; 

7-2844 

24—  25581' 

2502 

9—3097  (1) 

32—  25  IS 

22  —  20221' 

12—482  (2) 

35—  1478'' 

17  —  401b 

20—  251  7'- 

38—01!)  (0) 

ACTS  4 

27—  70S1';  1032  (3) 
30—2022  (2) 

13     2348;  2408  (3) 
44—2350'' 

1—2000  (0) 

:;•_'   -(519  ((});  882 

50—45 

2—  986b 

35-20431' 

51  --11  •_>-,'  ' 

3—720  (4  ' 

37  -742 

0—90  (2) 

38—390 

ACTS  14 

10—2004  (3);  2053  (3) 

2—155 

1  1—019  (0) 

1  'I         111  Vh  •     *^r\Q^ 

ACTS  9 

0—45;  2570 
(i      ->o""v 

lo  —  14-io    ,    oUo!S 

18—  21121' 

1  —  2278;  23(52'' 
4  —  1797 

.jw  /  iS 

11—1944  (2) 

19—2433 

5—2279 

12—2277 

25—  14791' 

7—882 

13—45 

27—2022;  20431' 

8—  22791' 

14—2058 

28—1130  (4) 

11—2910  (8) 

15—1200  (3);  2250 

34—091 

18—1070;  27011' 

17  —  2574 

30—405'' 

20—  22S71';  2S2S  (10) 

20  -831  (3) 

37—  (591 

30—2275;  2280-' 

21—2922  (II) 

ACTS  5 

35-2558  (3) 

23—2437  (2) 

37—  5291' 

3—  28421' 

43—73(5  (17);  290S1- 

ACTS  15 

4—091 

1—482  (2);  2282  (0) 

0—  5291'- 

ACTS  10 

2—204;  2437  (2) 

9—  751' 

4  —  4,s()  051 

10—529 

1—2022 

7  721'' 

11—051  (2) 
17—720  (4) 
21—  27191' 

(5—730  (17;;  2908'- 
11—401 
15—520;  819;  1879b 

9—2370  (3) 
10—2025  (2);  2943 
11—2350 

30—2053  (3) 
31—  2558h 
3(5—2972 
37—45  (6);  2920  (4) 

25  —  01  (5) 
28—  121  51' 
34—2350 
3(5—  20431' 
38—1411;  2022 

13—1501'' 
20—1790  (3);  2409  (4) 
21—2408  (2) 
28—1920  (5);  2031  (4) 

ACTS  6 
1—70;  479;  482  (2) 

43—019  (0);   178(5 
40—  29901' 

29—2142'' 

35—2278'' 
39—1987;  2(5(52  (3) 

3-2057'';  2851- 
5—1243(5);  21421';  23GS1' 

ACTS  11 

41—2280  (3) 

9—94  (3) 

1—2000;  2281  (4) 

ACTS  16 

13—  1  GOO1' 

3—1215'' 

1—831  (3) 

15—2852  (5);  30051' 

15—  29901' 
HI  -m-i  fi\  •  ••>-,  iv 

3—  057b 
A  cn  o  \ 

0— 22831' 
12—2371 

13—2033;  2878  (1) 
14— 1943b;  29771';  3127  (2) 
15—390  (4) 
16—296  (1);  689  (1);  251 11- 


343S 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


ACTS  16     cunllinii  <l 

ACTS  20   -citnti  nncil 

ACTS  26 

17—2370 

15—  205  11' 

5—2557;  2X64 

20—45 

1(1     31  IT' 

9—707  (2) 

22—061'' 

17    -4  SO  (3);  (153'1;    95X  i3>;    1X37 

10-2271  (2);  227X1' 

:>.")      15;    1672  (•_') 

(2);  29(17;  3023'' 

11  —  1961  (2) 

19—2913 

13-2279 

ACTS  17 

21—17X3  (3);  25  IS;  2(157 

1  1  -124S'1;    1796;   227X  (7) 

3—619  (6) 

21      12X1 

18—398;  2682'-;  2695 

1      2966'- 

29  —  1445  (In 

20—2558  (3) 

5—  1880b 

30     2259  (\) 

25—2X20'- 

G—  45 

32     2GX21' 

2X—  100'';  23  IX 

7      2606 

35      1910'1;  2xll'' 

30—2458 

9—2712 

16-  227r>  (4) 

37     2129'' 

ACTS  27 

17     I-J20 

ACTS  21 

9—327 

X     -4X0  (4) 

]  i  745  (-,) 

Is     348";  9G4;     12  <  2-';    2S5o  (•>) 

22     2S71 

9     205X1' 

1  1-1039'';  30X6  (5) 

2:3—  1260  (3);  3037"' 

13  -2657'' 

17—  2XXO'< 

2.-)—  3112 

20     207;  1X471' 

ACTS  28 

2(1—147'';   109:5'' 

21      2125'' 

.)•)          .).  )~C 

2—403 

27      1012'';  2191'';  2574 

O'JTTI. 

2S  —  59  (3>;    IKi1';    309;    (i()9  (1); 

25      2169  (  n 

—  —  1  t 

7  -15'1;  2501 

(192'';    12(12;    1451  ;    2190  (3'; 
2-1X0;  2X3(1 

26      26.  >2  (1  ) 
2s     3023  (-2) 
29     2253'' 

X—  XX41' 
10—1350  (3) 

29—1252  (3;;   12(19 

13     'Mill1' 

39     661   (''  )  '  °916  (X) 

.)()-  204.3";      2.)  19      >2  ;      2559h; 

15—2622  (1) 

2799  (()) 

ACTS  22 

16—  25X1' 

31—17X3;  2310>> 

3    -1X59'1;  2916  (X) 

30—12X1'' 

ACTS  18 

6    4X91'1 

31—537  (4) 

2—1(12(1  (h) 

10     22791' 

16     -393-  395-  ''(ISl1' 

7  >  ,  ,  -  .-      -i 

3    -29(17 

iVOM    1 

4—2(133 

20     2X51   (2) 

1—  205X 

o-  (1(17'' 

21      2291   (2);  24X0 

3—742;  2023h;  2340'' 

x     :}«)()  (4) 

23     XS3 

1     53    (3);     623    (2);     1664  (/); 

12      !.'>;  2590;  2(120 

21      1672  (2) 

2043''  ;  2569  (Xi;  2656  (2) 

1  1      207  (4) 

25     2704 

5  -2175'";  2657;  2(169"' 

18—228")  (9);  23X6 

2X     6611';  2273  (2) 

7—2292  (1J 

25—  394  (3) 

ACTS  23 

10—319 

ACTS  19 

1—129  (3);  661  (3) 

13—  206'1;  9X21' 

14  —  XI  5 

1—1710  (3) 

5   -1070;  2974 

15—1040 

3-3X9'' 

(1     973  (2  :  227x 

16  —  12X1 

4—  2558b 

X      1(13  (4);  23(13  (3);  2(159;  2660 

17  —  2519'1 

5—742 
(3—  401  '';  299Gb 
8—2348 

1  1  -20X 
21     215X 
25     967  (6) 

IX—  1042;  1135'-;  1260(3);  2023; 
2570   (3);    2571    (6);    2655'-; 
2656;  3026'- 

10—2977'' 
11-  -2X11 

27    -2614 
35-242X  (\) 

20—  1015  (I);   12692;  2191'-;  2430 
(3);  2574;  2575 

1  2     X76'- 

ACTS  24 

21—2429 

13—1068 

1  —  245X 

23—1239  (3) 

19—300  (3) 

2  -2477 

25—302'- 

21—  1155;  2(115  (2) 

5  -622  (2);  2123 

28—  25601' 

29—1173  (4) 

6-22531';  3023  (2) 

31—45;  2X2 

10—1105'' 

ROM  2 

33—90  (3) 

15—99'';  976  (5) 

3—2571  (6) 

35—  30Sb;  3001 

25—8X1  (3);  2929'- 

4—  2559h;  2657 

37—2942'' 

27—2374  (V) 

5—2502;  2570  (2) 

39—  G51 

7—1461 

ACTS  25 

9—  283  7b 

ACTS  20 

10—1672  (2) 

13—1782;  1848  (2) 

2—1450  (4) 

11—2138;  2614 

15—708;  l()93b 

7—1919  (3);  2633 

14—2606 

16—990;  2287  (VI) 

INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


3439 


HOM  2  -continued 

19— 24G8b 

22 29421' 

2S— 2696'1 
29  -2429 

ROM   3 

1  —2668  (1) 

2— 1478  (S) 

3-1090  (2) 

S— 2291  ('));  24S.1  (7) 

9—322  (3) 
10— 1782b 
19—708;  920;    1S47  (3);  2582  1,3) 

20  — L7S4  (5);  2559 

21  —  14(54  (3);  1SSO;  22S71-;  22SS 
22— 17S3  (3) 

24—323;  1291  (3);  1292  (7); 

2024;   2653;    2000  (2) 
2f>— 020;     1133;     1135b;     2023''; 

2177;  2467;  2056;   2609  (0); 

2S92  (3) 
26—692'-;  17S21' 

ROM   4 

4—1291  (3) 

.5—1465;    17S4;    2GG9b 

0—419  (1) 

7— 2654b 

8— 1462b 
11—399;  27091' 
13—2574 
14— 2339b 

15—  1848  (fi);  2571  (0) 
25— 17S3b;  2509  (S) 

ROM  5 

1 — 2407  (2);  2009  (61 

3—2070  (S) 

4—  1  OliS1  > 

-,_r,25    (2);     17S3h;     1933    (1); 
2S45  (2)   ' 

5.8—1262 

6— 2669b 

8— 2655b;  2650 

<)_2,~)36b;  2571  (6);  260S  (1) 
10-1135  (12);    2023'-;    2054  (2) 
11— 32 1'1;  2537  W) 
12— 322b;  973(3);  1003;  219Si9j- 
13—1310 
14—3029  (3) 
17— 1463b 
IS— 991;     1464b;      1465;      2057; 

2SOO  (9) 
19—2170  (3) 
20— 104S;  1291  (3);  1S4S  (0); 

2292 
21—2340 

ROM  6 

1—2292(2);  2617  (5);  2670  (S) 

3011  (II) 
2—2291  (5);  2609  (4) 


HOM  6 — continued 

3 -268  lb 

4—387;    390;    391;    015;    052''; 
742b;  2608;  2(')S5  (8) 

5—2504 

0—493    (3);     1975    (3);     2024; 
2085  (1J 

7—1849  (9) 
11—398  (1);  1070 
12—492  (2) 
13—2058  (4) 
14—2509 
17—205  (a) 
19—1003  (7) 
23—493 

ROM  7 

1—1849;  2291  (3) 

1      2GG92 

7—493  (3);   2278  (7);   2289  (2) 
13—1783 
22—1975  (2) 

23—398  (1);  2454b;  254 12 
21—193-;  2070  (8) 


1975 
254  lb; 
2040'-; 


•      ROM  8 

1—599;    1849;    1974   (3) 
(I);  2715b;  2800 

2—015;   1410b;  2495  (2); 
2550 

3  —  111'.)'1;     1783;     1880; 
2291  (5);  2548  (3) 

7—  2023'1;  2721 

9—925    (III);    2542    (4); 

20092;  20844 

10—987  (3);   1461  (2);  2550 
11—020;  987  (3i;  2504 
12—59 

13—2069  (3);  2070  (8) 
14—008;  OK) 

15—  2556b;    2683  (2);    2842- 
10—2274;    2842b;    3035;    3099 
17—609  (2);  2654  (7) 
19—988;  2801  (11) 
21—00;   495  (2);    18S11';   2548b 
22—981  (2);  2542  (3) 
23—973  (3);   1410 
21—2668  (1) 
20—1374;  1487'1;  20171' 
28—  2480b;  2482  (3) 
2!)—  025;  927;   1130;   1131;    1451 

2435  (4) 
30—2799  (5) 
31—2329;  25921' 
32—  2655b;  2801  (12; 
33—1784  (5) 
34—264;  G15b;   1783 
35—  2543b 
37—701 

38—  2454b 

39—1263;  2686  (2) 


2024 


ROM  9 

3—130 

4—59  (1);  010  (5);  25501' 

5— 2023b;      2090     (1);      2340b; 
2017  (3);  3018b 

7— 2519b 
10—2535 

11—  925b:);   1130;   15491' 
14— 2435b 
18—927;  1338b 
20— 9202;  2120b 
22—2571  (6; 
30—21)09'' 
32      158  (4) 

ROM  10 

3— 14G5h 

4—1851;  2291  (1) 

0-1914  (1J 

9—742 
13— 2669b 
17—399 
18—982'' 

ROM  11 

2—1130 

4—925;  2581 

5—1291  (3) 

8—2842 

9—2864;  2898b 
17—2185  (5);  309  lb 
24—1293 

25— 458b;  983;   1090b;  2105b 
26— 2519b;  2668  (1) 
28—2537  (c) 
29— 545b 
30—3033 
32—2502;  2657 
33—926 
36—740  (4) ;  2480'' 

ROM  12 
1—2440  (3);    2498  (10);    2657b; 

2845 
2— 1098b;      2801     (11);      3006; 

3109 

5—652  (2);  2292  (1) 
0—2059;  2843b 
8—479;  2060;  2S44b 
13—1433  (7);  2427  (4) 
19—3113  (2) 
20— 10241' 

ROM  13 

1—1850;  2138 

3—2429 

8_814;    1849(13);    1933b;  2291 

(1) 
10—2668  (2) 


ROM  14 


5—1920  (5) 
8—2683  (2) 


3440 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


ROM  14  —  continue.'!                                           1   Cou  3 

1  COR  9 

10—616  (2)                                                1  -1119;   1975  (1);  2105;  2682";        1—203  (4);  2279 

12—33                                                              2842"                                                   2—2709" 

13—881" 

2—2052 

5—519;   520";  2278";   2349" 

15—1933" 

4—201 

9—2102" 

20—819                                                     13—799;  2(5(59 

10—2409" 

23-  -1309"                                                    14—2658 

15—2339" 

15—990 
ROM  15 

16—2433  (3) 

I/  —  26/0  (Xj 

24—1172  (e);   1173 

4—1481  (14)                                            21  -691 

26—88;  1172" 

8—1090  (2) 
10—  1478"2 

1  COR  4 

'-'7   -492    (2);      1172    (,/);      2:529; 
2560":  2(569 

16—2657  (3);  2(5X3 

5     2429;  2572  (11);  2(569 

18—2844 

(5  —  1110                                                                        I  (1<>it  10 

19—982";  14492 

8—1173  (4) 

1—395  (3);  2637 

23—206  (2) 

9—1179" 

2-394  (4) 

24—2260                                                  12—1133  (2) 

4—2843;  2845 

26—2427  (4) 

13—21X0" 

5—2292  (2) 

28—2709" 

15-399;  2702" 

11—980 

17    -1023 

12—2669'' 

ROM  16 

13—1090";  294:; 

1—1433  (7);  2614  (2);  3103  (61 

1    COR  5 

14—1448 

2—2060;  26(52 

16—487";    688   (I);     1659;    1927" 

6—2001  (5) 

5-654  (4);  2670    s                             17—1728  (,{) 

7—132  (c;1;  205X 

7-798";    8X9;    1X23;     1923(1);      20—  (590  (3)  ;  2292  (2) 

8—432 

2024;  2(553;  26X5  fX)                    21—2898" 

10—538  (7) 

9—195 

1  COR  11 

11—2120 

10-1005  (4) 

2—3004  (2);  3047 

13—90  (1);  2625" 

1    COR  6 

5—1348  (6) 

18—492  (1) 

1—2353  (1) 

7—146     (4);      9X9;      1451     (2); 

19—2798 

7—818;  877" 

1914  (1) 

20—2129;  2(595 

9—2250(4)                                              8.9—53(4) 

22—1070 

11-395:    2548'-:    26X4"                       10-134(6) 

23-1433  (6  ,;  2X54                                13-2564";  25(55                                      15-733 

25-2105                                              .  16_1478b'                                             20-70  (5) 

17—2550                                                21—  880b 

1  COR  1                             19—2669  (3)-  2X92  (1)                         23—70;  61X;  2789" 

2-652    (4)-     2593-     2682    (2)'     20-2024;  2532                                      24-1659;    1929;    2022;    2637(2) 
u.j-    w,     ^.  >,»-•>,     ^*_     (i),                                                                      25—731  C'V  ->653  (2) 
2683-';  2685  (1)                                                                                                 ",  ,      '**  U 

3—2043" 

8_2292  (1)                                              7-2278"                                                 27-1310;   1922  (3) 

12—201 

X—  1038  (4;                                            28—1929 

13—389 

9—2929"                                                 29—1927  (c);  2292  (2) 

14—397  (5) 

10—1999  (5);  2290  (1) 

30—992  ((5);  2670  (X) 

16—396  (4) 

1  1—2536" 

1  Con  12 

17—2339" 
18—761";  2427" 
22—2789" 

12—2682" 
14—393" 
1,5—866  (2);   1999" 

3—130;  624  (2);  2684  (5) 
4—3019  (16) 
10—  28443;  2996 

23—626  (4) 

23—2024;  2532 

12—2030;  2542  (3; 

30—618;   1465;  2021 
35—2819 

13—389;  401;  492  (2  >;  2548" 

18  —  2497 

1   COR  2 

1   Coit  8 

21—2929 

1—2105;  2967" 

1  —  1242  (2) 

27—  (552 

5—1444  (5) 

3—1130 

28—2843 

6—3091" 

4-3014  (6) 

1  COR  13 

10—3020" 

5—2023;  2326  (18) 

1—2996" 

12—2686;  2845  (1) 

6—1914  (1);  2024;  3019 

2—467  (c);  1242  (2) 

13—461;  2580" 

8—881" 

3—744 

14—1816;  2721;  2845"                          9—2867 

4—1439" 

15—1957  (1)                                            11-2329 

11—2997  (5) 

16—2056;  26S4"2                                  13—716 

13—1420  (4) 

IXDKX  OF  SCKiriTHK  TKXTS 


3441 


1   Con  14 

1—2059 

2—2990  (1) 

5— 1415b 

9— 8Sb 
1 1— 402'' 
IS— 2997  (5j 
21—2582  (3) 
23— 1448b 
24—3112 
26—2059 
29— 2843b 

37—1483'-;   1975  (1);  25SO  (6) 
40—655  (5);  816 

1   Cou  15 

1—2569  (8) 

3— 323b;     62)5;     742;     1664    (/) 
2291  (4);  2568;  2569  (8) 

5—928  (11) 

6—2668  (8) 

7—520'- 
13—399 
15—2054 
17— 2367b 

973  (3);    1463; 


21— 811's 

2503 
22—53    (2);    991;     1093; 

2498  (9);  2562;  2684 
23—987;  1315;  2249(1);  2565 
24—1805;  2023b;  2053'1;  2504  (5) 
27—2546  (1) 

29—392  (2);   397  ((});    2292  (2) 
31—2686 

32—189  (3);  1172  (3) 
35—615;  988b;  20X9  (6) 
37—1461  (3) 
40— 587b 
41—307  (3) 

44—492(4);   493h;    1451;   2338 
45—50;    53  (3);    1914  (1);    2495 

(2);  2497b 
46—1975  (1);  2121b 
47— 989b;  1015;  2340b 
49—988 
50—1119     (5);       1804b;      2105'*; 

2250  (4);  2564 
52—257 
54—2582  (3) 

1  COK  16 
1—2633 

2—1919  (3) 

8—3111 
12—201 
22—1051 

2  COR  1 

1—2685  (1) 
4—1481;  2245  (2) 
8—2969 
10—2670  (8);  2694b 


2  COR  1 — continued 

20— 1090b 

22—1410'-;  2709'-'' 
23—2173  (1) 

2  COK  2 
5—1051 

6— 2670  (s  i 
11— 2694b 

14—257;  2X1 X;  3022h 
15— 27001' 

2  Coit  3 
3—3114'- 

5—398  (1);  733  («.)) 
9—1465 

15—1285  (VII) 

17—1264(8);  2669  (4);  26X41'- 
18—988;    1451;    22XX;    2X51    (4) 

2  COR  4 

2—2105 

4— 1451-;  2023;  2694b;  3109 
6-399;  1451  (2);  2279  (3) 
7—719;    853    ((>);     988;     2202'1; 
2426b;  2497  (3) 

10—2564 

16— 145(7;);   1974(2);    1975(2) 

17—988 


2  COR  5 


1  — 


3- 
6- 

8- 
10- 
11- 
14- 
16- 
17- 

18- 

19- 
20- 
21- 


2- 

H) 

11- 

16 


1- 

8- 
9- 

Kl 
1  I 


146    (5);     719;     988s;     9X9 

(VII);  2497  (3);  2564  (4) 
-670;  992  (6) 
-2563  (5) 
-1315 
-1461 

-990h;  2502- ;  2669 
-2348;  29491' 
-1933  (1);  2G572 
-2279;  2287b;  2289  (3) 
-398     (1);      742;      2518     (3); 

25502;  2(533;  26(59  (4)' 
-321b;     620    (2);     1135    (12); 

2023b;  2467;  2537  (2) 
-323b;  1135b;  2655b 
-115;  2434  (9) 
-72(2);    1404;    14(55;     1(530'-; 

2040'';   2654  (5);   2656 

2  COR  6 

-1478b;  2502'- 
-2427  (3) 
-2093 

-2892  (1) 


2  COR  7 


-323;  26X5-' 
-2558b 
-25592 
-1133  (4) 
-388 


2  COR  8 

2—2373  (4) 

5—2657  (3) 

9-  -20431';  2340  (2);  2127 
16 — 3023'1 
18-406;    1936'"';  2394;  2429 


2  COR  10 

3—257 

4—2789 

9—22(57'-;   2277'1 

2  COR  11 

3-492  (5);  3101  (7) 

x     2373  (4) 
1 1     2184 
15— 26941' 
24— 66 11' 
25—2777  (3) 
26—2401  r2) 
32—  21 X 

2  Con  12 

4—2281  (4) 

(5— 734 

7—1070;     2670    (X);     2694 
2974 

8—2432  (2) 

9—1292  (7) 
11—2350 
16-1309 

2  Con  13 

2— 22671' 

4  -2842 

5— 2560b 
11-1023  (1) 
14— 435b;      742;      14 
3019;  3020 

GAL  1 

10—2348;  2429 
11—2281  (4) 
12—1999  (5) 
15— U57b;  14Slb 
19—519 
20—2173  (4) 


(3); 


2023'1; 


CAI,  2 

4 — 195  (2) 

5—3026 

6—1461;  29661' 

7—2058 
10—2427  (4) 
11—2278'-;  2350 
12—207  (3) 

20— 323b;  2024;  2291  (5);  254Sb; 
2550  ((>);  2656  (2);  2669  (4); 
26X3  (2);  2684'';  26X5  (1) 


3442 


IXDKX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


GAL  3 

L— 3097b 

2—18.50 
6— 1465h 

7—399 
8— 1039 
11—1313  (2) 
13—761     (4);     2024;     22S9    (3); 

2f)322;     2541;     2654 ;     2655''; 

2656 

14—20.57;  2669  (3) 
15— 729h;   1464;   1927  (2) 
16-1478''-;      2363      (tij;      2519''; 

2712"'; 

19—616'';  17S2'1;  2023 
21  —  1783  (1) 
23-59  (1) 

24—865;  1020  (1);  2702'' 
26—2836 

27—389;    398  (2);    2670  (8j 
28— 1KM)1';  2817  (6) 

CAI,  4 

2-1850;  2854 

3—495  (2);   1783;  2(i25  (.2) 

4—492  (4);   610  (5);   626;    1149; 
14(54;    1(527;    2023'-;    2340'' 

5—59    (1);    2021;    2274;    2532; 
255(5;  2(554 

(5— (509  (2);    2550  (I);    2(5(59  (4); 
2(583  (2) 

9—426 
10—1920  (5) 
12  -2974 
14—2277 
1 7  -65>> 
19—2(584'' 
21—21;    98;    1317  (6);    1510  ((5); 

2292  (6) 

22—1490  (3j;  2(591'' 
24—2277 
25—1317  (6) 
29—1509  (3) 

GAL  5 

1—58  (II);  495  (2) 

3—24(59  (4) 

5— 990'' 

6—4(57    (r);     1567;    17S4;    2(531 
(4);  2657 

7—3026 
11—  2867'' 
13—627  (2) 

16—401;  26(59  (3);    268.7- 
17—1119'' 
19—1042;  1416'' 
20—1377 

21—881;  2250  (4);  2669 
22—1918;    1933  (1);  22611';   2291 
(1);     2357    (1);     2509     (6); 
2684b 
24—761'';  2668  (2) 


GAL  6 

1—1975(1);  2670(8);  2801  (13); 
2842 

(5—2292  (1) 

7—67  (5);  2502;  2570 

8—  (J92l>;  722'';  987  (3) 
11—2974 
14     7(51'';  2024 
15—398  (1);   742'';   2548  (3) 
16—  925b 
17     2455'' 

Kl'H    1 

1—1837'' 

3—1130- 

1     (513  (2);  2435  (4) 

5—  2556'' 

7—2024;  2531'-;  2541;  2634; 
2(554 

8—4(57  (1) 

9-25(52 
10—957;  991;  1091;  2503;  250  t  ; 

2654  (2) 
13—  27093 
14—401'';  2550  (4) 
18—  30251' 
19—615;  1023'' 
20—264;  615''- 
22—2030 
23      1110 


1—801  (7);  812;  2548  (3) 
2—88'';  2497  (7) 
3—399(4);  1975(1);  -056;  2571 
(6);   2668  (2);   2798  (3) 

5  39S  (1) 

6  261;  615;  1933;  2561 
8  -926 

1  1     957'-;  1838  (3) 

12-2574 

13     2651  (2) 

14—  30231' 
15—953 

16     7011';  2023;  2538  (3) 
19—1804'';  2273  (2) 
20  -482  (1) 

KIM  i  3 

1—956  (2) 

3—101;  2105 

5—467  (1) 
10—2454'';  2455 
11—692  (3);  24351' 
13—1238  (2) 
14—1101 

15—  2548b 
16—1975  (2) 
18—517 
19—1914  (1) 
20—2189  (6) 

21—  11991';  1892  (4) 


Km  4 

1—956  (2);  2683 

4—1914  (1) 

5—394 

(5—1262;  2288 

8—264;  265  (IX);   1478'' 

9—2340'- 

13—610'';  1023;  1149 
15—2030;  2(584'';  3026'' 
16—492  (3) 
17—2548'';  2668  (2) 
18—2056;  3025'' 
21-3025'' 
22—399;  1975  (3) 
23—2842 
24—146  (5) 
26—3113  (4) 
29—533 

30— 27091'2;  2842'- 
32  -1024'' 

Km   5 

1    -(509  (3);  30991' 
2—2024;  229 1:!;  2685  (S.);  2700'- 
2818 

3  -2(562 
4—1624 
5—2250 
(5-2023'';  2571  (6) 

14—1478'' 
18—401;  881 
19—2845 

22  -2509  ((5) 

23  -2030 
25—651  (3) 

26—394(4);   395-;   398(2);   399; 

652  (4);  2684'' 
27-3114 
32—2105;  2636'' 

KIM  i  6 

4  -397'' ;  2280  i3) 
5—2817  (6) 
6-1070'' 

12-492    (4);     1173    (/); 

2842'- 
15—2437 
16—2789 
18—2328 
19—2093;  2105 

PHIL  1 
7.12—2374 
12—2484  (6j 
13—2259'';    2374'-;    2127''; 

26221' 
21—1461 

23—992  (6);  1315 
27—661  (3);  2372'-;  2197 
28—2320 
29—2657  (2) 


2429; 


IN'DKX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


3443 


PHIL  2 

2—2497  (7) 

5—  33C)1';     233S(lj;     2374     (4); 

2058   (4);    2GS3   (3);    2GS4b; 

3056  (3) 
0—  204    (3j;    420;    0151';     1203; 

20231';      2170      ('2);      2457'1; 

3035 
7—1(132'';  1007;  1792- 

40S  (2);  2504  (5) 

2GS5  (S) 
13—  39S 

19—  2260b 
20—2374 
22—  29S5  (21) 
24—2306  (1) 

PHIL  3 

1—057  (3i;  G9G'>;  2370'1 

5—  1S50'1;  2270    !."));  2109 

0—2291 

9-987;  14G5 

10—2024;   2504;   2054  (Oi;  20571' 
12—988;  2290  (4);  2009;  20SO  (2) 

13—  1461b 

14—  545>>;   1172  (/);  2457'' 

15—  70  11' 

20—  204,  (3);   015;   001  (3);    9XS'-; 
9S9h;   2273  (2);    2372'' 

21  —  I93h;     973     (3);      1317     (6); 
1  151;   1790;  2338;  2501 


COL  2 


1 

2- 

3 


1119  (S) 
2105 
-1914  (1) 


3—3103  (4j;  3127  (I) 

\     2374 

8—  2429b 
12—3;  2275  (4) 
13—2009  (4) 
15—2373  (4) 
IS—  205S  (4);   270!)'';   2S1S;   2S45 


COL  1 

0—  9S21' 

7—955 

9—  2056b 
11  —  191S1' 

13—2250  (4);  2532h 
1  t—  2024 

15—  1113h;    1450   (2);     1451    (3); 
1914b;    2023'-;     2288;     3020h 
10—2455;  2481 
IS—  420b;  2290  (1; 
19—1149;  2341 
20—323;    701h;    991;    253S    (1); 

2562 

21  —  1135  (12);  20231' 
21—07  (5);  2057  (3.i 
25—407  (1) 
20—  21052;  2550  (5) 
27—1247  (S);  1401  (2.,, 


;> — zo/ 

0  - 20S5  (S) 

S  -207(5);  23S3;  2025;  3004  1 3 j 
9-1204(Sj;  12091';  1451  (4);  2341 

10-1149  (3) 

11-390;  G77'1;   1033(2i;  2292(2) 

12— 3S7;  390;  39 1'1;  2070  (S) 

15-22S9  (Ij;  30221' 

10—1920  (5j;  2031  (4) 

IS— 1440;  2050;  2557 

19—2273  (2; 

20— 22SS 

21—197  (2);   1212  (1) 

COL  3 

1  — 39S1-;  20S3 

3— 988h;  2024;  2550 

5—1448;   2030;    2250;    20GS  <2) 

0— 20231';  2571  (0) 

9—1887  (2);   1975  (3);  2009 
10—140  (5);   1451;  254S>> 
11— 402b 
12—1404  (4) 
15—1173 
10— 2S45 
22— 1070b 

COL  4 
10  —  1939  (4) 
10  —  195;  958(4);   1837(3):  22(57'' 

1    THKSS  1 
1—2507 
2—3019  (10) 
3— 990b 

4—2292  (1) 

9—707(2);  2054'';   255S  (3) 
10—204  (4);  2571  (0) 

1  THKSS  2 

2—2370 

4—2434  (2) 

0—2429 

8— 2S41  (1) 
13— 2009b 
15—2507  (5) 
10—2571  (6) 
17—2907 

18— 1571b;  2094  (3) 
19—2249 
20—1238  (2) 

1   THKSS  3 

3—981  (2) 

9—2909 
11—2507  (5j 
12—2085 
13—980;  2084  (7) 


1  THKSS  4 

1—2009* 

3— 2(>S4  (5);   20S5  (S;;   2907b 

4—3049 

0--2571  (7) 

S— 2009  (3j 
13  -3801';  9S7;  992 
14— 2S3;  2507  (5j 
15—2457 
10—981  (Ij;  98(i;   1315;  2 "»04  (4;; 

25(15;  2777  (3) 
17— -9S9;  2054 

1   THKSS  6 

2—980  (4) 

3—981  (2j 

0— 2820b 

9—2571  (0) 
1 0— 20S3 
12—2000 
14—2085 
20—2059;  2S431' 
23—2496(5);   2502(2);   2(iS3(3j; 

2084  (7) 
27—2207'' 


2  THKSS   1 

5— 9SO  (2) 

0—2571  (7) 

7—2581 
10—010  (1) 
11  990b 

2  THKSS  2 

1  —2054  (2) 

2—957 

3—154  (2);    1957'1 

1— 982b 

0— 9842;  2909  (1) 

7— 2105b 

9— 9SO;  2094'- 
10— 3020b 
13—742;  3019  (10) 
15—3004  (2) 

2  THKSS  3 

3  — 1090'' 

0—3004  (2) 
10—2070  (S) 
12—2970 
14  —  1051;  2207b 
17—907 


1  TIM  1 

4—943  (2j;  10S5;  1242  (3j 

S— 1851 

9  —  1859;  2202 
12—2201'' 
13—2799  ((>) 
15— 10901';   1091 
18—480 
19—90  (4) 
20—1051;  2070  (8) 


3444 


INDEX  OF  SCUIPTTRE  TEXTS 


1   TIM  2 

2  TIM  3                                            HE  2—  continued 

1—1484 

1—980                                                       14—492  (5);    2532  (r/);    2094  (3) 

2  —  129  I2 

2-1243                                                  15—2654  (4);  2854" 

4—2549  (2);   2559";   2502 

5-1270                                                  16—2670  (2) 

5—010;   2023;   2532;   3014  (0) 

6—2261                                                 17—1091;   2439  (2);   2445;  2467; 

0-2024;  2054 

8—2500''                                                         2530;  2654;  2656  (3) 

9—2202;  2820" 

12—2327  (21) 

FT  F  3 

12-3103  (4) 

15-300;  468" 

13  -53  (4) 

10-1474(1);    1482  U")                          1—2024 

14—492  (5);  3101  (7) 

2—1091 

15—007";  3100" 

2  TIM  4                               7—1478" 

1-1804";  2250  (4)                                 9—2913 

1  TIM  3 

.7     ->4-j4  (()) 

2—054";     881     (3);      1133     (7); 

3-886(2)                                                                    HE4 

2820"2 

4-1085                                                       2-398(3);  2929 

4-1293" 

8-1173;  2258"                                       0-3033 

0  -2157 

11-2985  (19)                                            -2496b 

9  -2105 

13—0(59'';    1880(14);   2247"               13—1467(2) 

15  -2200";  3020 

14—91  (6)                                                14—  204  (IV);  2043";  2440 

10—204  (5);    9S2";    2105;    2201"; 

10—2325"                                                 15—205";    2024;    2415;    2070  (21; 

2341;    2430;    2030  (1) 

17—  9S2"                                                           294;5 

1   TIM  4 

-'0  -3023"                                                                               n,;  5 

2—2710 

21      2501;  2710"                                       1-205";    2024;    2439  (  1  );    2440 

3  -197;   520;    1242  (I) 

'  P  .  „,      •« 

1  -1085;    1172 

2     2653  (3) 

10—2502 

2    -1090"                                                      [      2445 

14  —  4x0 

5-055;  2437  <,2)                                    7-72  (1);   2342  (3j;   2432  (2) 

~  -881   (3>                                                8—2025;  2170(2);  2670(2) 

1    TIM   5 

8—1433  (7)                                             9—333;  2175" 

10—1125";    1433  (7);   3073 

'I   -10S5                                                12—2052;  2025(2);  2843" 

17—054" 

15-2050  (2)                                            13-1009 

18  —  1483  (18);  2102" 

10—2560"                                                 14—2720 

19—480  (0) 

TIT  2                                                         UK  6 

23—3088  (2) 

2—  881;2820"                                            1-260(7);    398;    742 

1  TIM  6 

7-1294                                                    2—385(1);  389;  2200 

7—2258" 

11  —  2562;  2009                                        4  —  486;  2244;  2329 

9—2819" 

1:5     2341                                                     0-319" 

10—1182" 

TIT  3                                 8—2560" 

12—742 

5-394  (,4);    395*  ;    398  (2;;    925      12~  lo49'' 

15—2423 

(HI)                                                  13-2173  (4) 

10  -092";   1891 

S—  1090"                                                 18—266  (7);  1462 

18—2427 

10      1051;   1377=                                      19-326";  2777  (3) 

20-S30;    1210;    1242  (3);    2702" 

20—204;  333;   1131" 

HE  1                                                         HE  7 

2  TIM   1 

1   -335     (III);      467     (1);      OlS;       3—230(12);   2440;   292s" 

0—480 

1047;    2019  (3);    2024                    4—2445  (2) 

9—1130 

-     W2  (-1)                                                5—2987" 

10—34  (2);    110  1;    2341 

3—264;    615";    1451';     1914  (2);       9—2444  (4j 

13—742 

2337";  2654  (7)                               14—2028" 

14—830 

5—3055(1)                                            10—943(1);   2341";   2140 

2  TIM  2 

0—1033;  2190                                      21—2558" 

3—257 

7—1478"                                              22—2872 

5  —  1172 

8-2341  (1)                                            24-265  (4) 

7—2050" 

10—3034  (2)                                            25—322  (2);  2025;  2070  (2) 

11—742;  2201" 

Hl,  2                               26-1630" 

13   -1090";   1098  (4) 

2—324;   1851  (2);   202:; 

17—91  (5);   1173" 

4—2064  (4);  2841                                                          UK  8 

18-1444  (3) 

5—980                                                       1—265" 

19—2112";  2485";  2709" 

9—  204  (IV);  2341";  2057                    2—2025 

20—2202";  2420" 

10    -333;  2021                                          ;;     2024;  2440 

INDKX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


UK  8 — continued 
(•)— lilt)'1;  732(7);  25491';  2(551 
7—2053  (3) 
8— 2517*' 

HE  9 

5—2407  (1) 

S— 2892  (1) 

9— 39G;  3029  (1) 
10-394;  2545b 
11—731     (4);     9SO;      1405     (4j; 

2070  (2) 
12—204;      265b;      253  lh;      2051 

(1.0);  2050  (3) 
11—2170  (3);  2445;  2(570  (2) 
15— 010'-;  729>>;  732(5);  2271 
10—2950 
22—2025 

23—2538  (4);  3029 
21—322    (2);     320;     390;      1110; 

148S 
26—2177 


HK  12 — continued 

0— 1932  (2) 

8— 413b 

9—2841  (2) 
14—2085  (1) 
18—485;  2997  (2) 
22—980 

23—054;  2563  (5);  2837b 
24—323;  610b;  2025 
26—833 
27—1353  (7) 
2S— 408  (2);  991  (IX) 


HE  13 


2—1433  (7) 
4—520 
9  — 1300b 

12—2025 

15— 54(ib 

10—2845 

23— 2985b 


—   /                 r/O.7       j        fcJ»)V/»>                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 

28—010  (li;   1404 

1  —2022'' 

HE  10                                2-2943-' 

1—31   (ilj;    20(5  (7);    320'';    980;       5-2480(5) 

1135b;   1851;  2053  (3);    3029     11-308(5(5) 

(1) 

13-1042 

2—2051  (0) 

14—1094 

3—1  134  (S) 

17—302  (0);  303 

5—492  (2) 

18—  3992;     2022'-;     2548b;     2550 

7—2025 

(0);  3020 

12—015'' 

21—  2S371';  2871 

13-2(50  (7)                                            25—1851  (5);  1881'' 

14—1928 

27—2427  (4);  2557 

19-290;  2050  (3);  2892(1) 

JAS  2 

22—393;  395;  2084'' 

23—  1090'' 

1—1780;   2022'  •;   2342  (111) 

2(5—2244;  2329;  3020 

2—  2594'';  31  II1' 

29—1291;  2571  (8);  20821';  3113b 

3—1126 

32  —  1449 

5—991  (IX);  2421;  2480  (5) 

39—  2320b;  2837'' 

8—  1851'1;  2133 

10—1310 

HE  11 

14—1088;  1785  (4);    2427  (4) 

1  —  1088  (4)                                            19—2291 

3—  318b;    738;   1211;  2(540  (1)        '  20—2523 

4-5                                                         22  —  1507 

5—3007                                                  23-2517 

0-3191';  2430                                       2(5    -2497  (  3  i 

9—1555 

11  —  1090'-;  2091'' 

JAS  3 

13—975  (2)                                                   --*« 

21  —  1552 

6—2122;  30S3 

2  1—2360 

9—140  (3) 

27—2084  (4) 

14—3026 

31-2525                                                   15—887  (4) 

32-2675(2,;  2077                                18-2293 

37  -170»;  1250 

HE  12 

1—992  (3);   1172  (<•) 
2—333;  015b;   llll1' 


3  -HO1' 
7—2095 
11—533;  1851'' 


JAS  5 

3—980;  20271' 

7—2480  (5) 

8—010  (1);  2054 
11—1087  (3);  2402 
12—1851  (5) 
14—480  (3; 
15—  27S3b 
17—933;  2250 

1  PET  1 

2— 323h;    020'-    1130  (4;;    2023; 
2083;   2847;  30191' 

3—925  (III);  1400  (III; 

5—980;  1X40 

0—2943 

7—2351  (4) 

8—2329 

9—395 

11—2342  (III);  2457;  24SO  (5) 
12— 1482b;  2350  (5) 
17— 3113b 
18—1823;    2024;    2434b;     2531b; 

2541;  2053  (3) 
19—2054 
20—1130  (4) 
22—3026 

23— 3971';      39!);       2549;       2550; 
27 121' 

1   PET  2 
2—2052;  2549 
4— 1795b 

5—2023;    2445;    2440  (,3);    2815 
S— 1130b 

9—652(4);   1404  (4 j;  2354(5) 
11—1037;  2350 
14—2429 
19—2353  (2) 
20-2058  (4) 

21—323;  625;   1852  (Gj;  2023 
22— 1030b;  2050  (4) 
24—1404 

1  PET  3 
4—2202 
0—209 11' 

12— 2325'1;  2480  (5) 
15— 2082b 
10—2070  (3i 
17—2057  (2) 

18—323";      2023;      2177;      2342; 
2354   (0);    2450b;    2053    (3); 
2056  (4);   2658  (4) 
19—200;     992     (5);     2503     (3); 

2563  (5) 
21—393;     394;     395;      398     (2); 

254S1' 
22— 015'- 

1   PET  4 

3-207  (4);  144S 
0--992  (5)'-;  2457 


3440 


INDEX  OF  SCRIPTURE  TEXTS 


1   PET  4 — continued 
9—1433  (7) 
10—2843 
11—2199  (3) 
12—2623 

13—2351  (4);  2581 
19— 1090b 

1  PET  5 

1—17 IS1';  2437  (2) 
4—1173 

5— 2353'' 
9—525  (2) 
13—2350  (5) 

2  PET  1 
1—2342 

2—2357  (1) 

4—692  (3  i 

6—881  (3) 
10—1130 

11—991  (IX);  2250  (4) 
13—2356  (6) 
16—1085;  2357;  3005 


1  Jx  1 — continued 
S— 1698;     1701    (1);     1713    (3); 

2686  (2j;  2712'- 
9— 1090'' 
20—205(5  (3) 

1  Jx  2 


1   ,Jx  5  —continued 

17—1701  (1) 
20— 1700h;  2342'' 

2  Jx 


4— 1713  (1);  3025b 

5— 1263b 

9—1(598 

13— 2342'-;  2(595 
15—1933  (2) 
17—1706;   1717  (4) 
18—983  (3);  1705  (4);   1810 
19—1704'' 

20 — 101;   1700'-;   1701;   1701'' 
21—1712'' 

22—155  (3);  1699  (4) 
27—1703  (6);  30262 
28— 616 

1   Jx  3 


JUDE 

1—519 

4—1291  (3);   2023;   2342 

5—2180  (5) 

6    -2694  (1) 

7— 9901';  2571  (7) 
12—69;  670  (2) 
14-457  (1);  616  (1) 
19—2721 
20— 3019b 
2:'.   18(i8;  284 (i1' 

}{K\  1 


-luo.j,   AO-II  ,   ouv;-> 

19—  308;  1474  (2);  2582    (3)               1—1263                                                  1-2582(2) 

20—2579;  2580  (6)                                2—009(3;;    1451;    1703'';    1706             2582  (2);  2586  (1) 

21—1479'  "                                               4—1701   (1);    1852  (6);   2798  (1)        4—2587;  30191';  3034 

5—  323'-;    1630;   2025;   2311               5—  3231';    1091;   2177;   2653(0 

2  PET  2 

6  -1698  (4)                                                    2054;  2084b 

1—1377 

7—  12431';   1782                                       6—482  (!>) 

2—3026 

8—1713  (3)                                              7—616 

4—2457;  2694  (4) 

9—1703    (4);        26S4h;        2680;      10—1919  (2);  2(533 

5—2433  (4) 

27  121''-;  2S06  (2)                              12     312 

10—1003  (7) 

10—009(3';   610;    19331';   2519         13—  6201' 

12—1243                                                     16—1698;   17021'                                       18—2025 

15—379  (4) 

17—2421;  2427  (1)                                20—  308;   553;   2105;  263(5  (1) 

16—  196  lh 

IS—  99b;  101 

I  Jx  4                                                      REV  2 

20—2357  (1) 

1—  2094'-;  28431'                                        1—9(57'' 

2—024  (2);    1700;    23-12'-;    2343       2—983;  20581' 

2  PET  3 

(2) 

5-—  553;  258(5  (2) 

1—2350  (5) 

:;     155  (3) 

6—  1243b 

2—185 

0—1243  (4);   1714 

7-2246  (4);  30091' 

3—1668  (7) 

7  —  1713h;  1933  (1) 

8—2587 

5—  2357h 

8-51;  1698  (2i;   1932 

9     2127;  2(596'' 

6—1354  (9) 

9—12(53;    169S1';    1700  (5);    1705      10—2325  (13);  2320  (15) 

10—2624  (1) 

(2);  2190;  3020'-                             13   -2S92  (1) 

12—986;  2054 

10—  323h;      1702;      2025;      2107;      15—  9831';  21  13 

13—1353  (5) 

2056  (4)                                            18-2828  (10; 

14—  2S46b 

13—1701                                                !  20-1676  (//);  2977h 

16—460  (2);  3114 

18—2686                                                24—1243(6) 

18—2357  (1) 

19—  1263b 

27—  2426b 

1  Jx  5 

REV  3 

1  J,\  1 

1—398;    1704h;   2806  (2) 

4—2112 

1  —  1667  (.5);  1914b 

3—609  (2);   1933  (2) 

7—1795  (/>);  2366;  3026 

2—  1702b;  1705  (2) 

4—2695 

8—2325  (13) 

3—  1703b 

5      1700 

9—  269(5'' 

5—1243  (5);    1697  (3);    1891  (3) 

6—  4S9b;  1663(J);  1699(4) 

14—420'';  077  (b);  2025h 

6—2684  (7) 

10  —  3099b 

17—2127'- 

7—  323b;     17041';     1929;     2025; 

13—1714  (III);  2549^ 

20—809 

2654  (6) 

16—486 

21—2025 

1XDKX  OF  SCKIPTrKK  TKXTS 


3147 


RKV  4 

RKV   11                                             RKV  17    -conlimn-il 

6—1)04  (7) 

1—  982'*;  2315                                         9     9S5 

7—1074 

8—  28211';   2S42>>;   2810                       11     -2580'- 

15     991  (IX);   1805;  2250  (1)             12      1799  (1,) 

RKV  5 

18  -2571  (0)                                               1  1      013  (2>;  2025 

1—370(2);  2709  (3);  31221' 

RKV  12                              1S-2'™" 

6—  020h;  2053 

1—208  1'1                                                                             I;KV   18 

9—323;    2025;    25311';    2815 

3-155(4)                                                -1      -'<  '•"'-' 

12—2587 

17  —  2171'1 

0—2003  (1,)                                                                   Kl.;v   19 

7—2583  (1);   209(1  (4)                           ,,     .,„.,,. 

HKV  6 

9-492(5,;  2091'-  2095                     ,()     ,.,'    ,()n 

9—  1315J;  2503 

10-2250(4)                                            ,,      l()9; 

10—2571  (7);  3020 
11      2504  (4) 

12—97(1  (5)                                               13—  191  11';   1910 
13-207                                                   13_2r)71  ;f(J 

13—308  (8) 

RKV  13                              10—2025 

10   -2025h;  2571  (0) 

1-155(4)                                              -»)     2694b 

3—  984  (V;  2580''                                                     I^KV  20 

HKV  7 

8—2025'-;  2519;  2513''                           1      987 

2  -27()9h 

14—2586  (3)                                                3     2709  (3) 

3—172  (/>);   1128 

10—3121  (3)                                              4     2503 

4—  2455b 

18  -985;  2138;  25s!1'                               5     2505'- 

9  —  1173;    131.>;    2230  (3);    2.)  12 

HKV   14                                      -19G;V) 

(3);  2593 

10     990'1;  2095 

1       •)  i  •>  i  ,  •.;  \ 

10—2025 

12--  2502'' 

14—2054  (0);  2084'' 

13   -131")  (4) 

17—510'' 

4—1003  (7.) 
10—2571  (0)                                                                    Hi:v  21 

HKV  8 

11—990''                                                     1—2540  (1) 

10—  30Sb 

HKV  15                                -      l»22 

11—3110 

2   -1315;  209,'. 

HKV  9 

3-2430;  2845;  3026                                                   HKV  22 

1  —  201h 

KKV  16                              2—2020;  3009'';  3010 

7—2580  (1  ) 

4  -2455b;  2709'  • 
11—3;  20  12 
17—  522b 

19-2571(0)                                              8-61;  2583    2 
HKV  17                              11—2502 

5—358;   2105;   31  II'1;   3121  (3)        13—2587 

RKV  10 

7—2030(1)                                            10-308 

4      27091' 

S—  984  (?))2;  2321)''                                18—2582  (2j 

INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


1423'' 


2X    21';  61';  474'-;   1100"; 

=  7OX    12'-;    IS";    1532" 

nibrnx  see  z;brox 

2264";  2551" 

:tt;OX    12b 

X5X    7ib 

_  ^-      S(Hl    —    X 

T 

xrrcx  3" 

"^TTOX    13" 

.'OX    69" 

•OX    834";   10S6" 

•TTIJOX    13'' 

^JJX    69";  1957» 

^TI^ZX 

""??«    528";  887b;  3127" 

TH5X    2b;  201'-;  834" 

v.;^  ~,:  '  wn;  1('-;^" 

'•OX    201  b 

""-"X    1123";  217()b;  2218b 

2"  -TI,"OX 

^."jX    7X" 

rGX    3085" 

"  .-'  ."':  !  IX";  23'' 

T 

~  *~  tox 

nnias  207()'- 

COX    745b;  2X471' 

T     : 

"'P'O  X    7b 

Z?b^X    9051' 

rnipnx  2030" 

I   r    :     f 

''5X    1105" 

Z.'tX    65X";  2419b;  2420"; 

OX    ()b 

2527";  2544" 

' 

:5N    5b;  2407" 

-XOX    <)";  55b 

"£JX    541";    141'.)";   2527" 

•»—  .v»- 

'~2X    3017'' 

»VS"2X    "'' 

-_,,   u.y 

"ax    1250";   1251" 

HOX    9";  54  lb 

'  rc::r"T  i5'1 

riiX    3X2" 

>5?3'OX  1  (  b 

z^-LOirn  bnx  ti" 

-V"!?^    -">95";  240X" 

'^•ox  '  ' 

2^7,2  55»    5l>;  2013-  2107" 

"X    2067";  3046* 

1~OX    9";   133X" 

nrn^  bzx  d" 

3X3-TX    54b 

y-OX    9" 

Z1!1?  33X    6" 

""X    1447b 

T     ~:    1 

z^^r  bnx  d" 

^"X    1447b 

^_^     ^  .  . 

]3X    494";     591";     722": 

Z'-X    see  Z~X 

s^rrqx  io:' 

1.S931';      1984b; 

"~X    1264b;  1266";  1919a; 

-,-p.,^ 
' 

2007";     2758b; 

2007b;     2389b; 

2X56";     2999"; 

2908" 

'^nox 

3079";    3155" 

2"-"-X    60" 

"'  i  10" 

"rpix 

'59  ,47Xb;    2050";  2X62b 

i^X    1050";  1167";  1278b; 

•iOX    890b;  2  1  30";  2420"'b 

-J:^  .,  "°S2" 

2154";     2775b; 
3113" 

•^5"B3X    5(J6h 

'     'TT^        d" 

Xpb'jX    48b 

^nOX    see  ^HOX 

^rrn  ox  591";  x9ob 

Z"X    2524b;  2861" 

l^JOX    13'' 

..,T".  i14bJ  ls" 

Z"X    48b;  49b;  54";  140'-; 

-"OX    131' 

144b;  145";  28  7b; 

=r^  10" 

OnX    745b;  2X4  71' 

488b;819b;2015"; 
2337";     2404"; 

X^^nX    11" 

~y3"5X    4X5'1;  2405" 

2835b;     2861"; 

'"^OX    11'' 

VOX    X901' 

31091' 

•"IV 

Z1X    675h;    1254b;   2524b 

1~:OX;    12";  43  11' 

ifrN    1446lj 

"-V 

:r:ox  i2b 

n^nsc  24271' 

."^^  ,'49b;  899" 

i:ox  see  -:nx 

^1X    1267" 

'••.•,  - 

"OX    1267";  2400" 

Z"X    2856b;       2857"; 
2861"-  b 

1T37OX    9";    l.>74" 

nnnx  2400" 

rna-ix  56b 

"~OX    7'1 

ZPP3X    18" 

n^-JX    49b;54";  144b;667"; 

___,.. 

^"^DX    22b-   1739b 

724a;887";  1307"; 

•  >        ^°*   '  '-()l)   ;   12()r', 

1442b:      182(ib: 

2189 


2000" 


3448 


IXDKX   OF   IIKHRKW   AM)  ARAMAIC   WORDS 


3449 


i;n2-S 

see  "TC'S 

51318    2177"                                              m7X    1445" 

•^-x 

54";  2133" 

bn\X    2595-  ;28(i7";  3032";                     1;7X    877" 

D^-X 

64" 

3074b                                        n^27X    2030" 

•  _  _ 

~'X    51  1";  1112" 

•  "  •- 

2524" 

-X    733";    ,548*;   MM,";                       ^    '^'    "^    1248' 

%TE-jS 

1912"                                              '7X    1081" 

Sr"C~S 

50" 

nj'X    3012"                                                -7X    05»;  S80" 

ns 

2S21"                                              brx    2015";  3042"                      ~0^^'  iTi?    ;W43" 

PS 

see   )--X                                          T|S    10  |i>,                                —  -p  •  P::TS    345a 

Tv« 

•>lb                                    n^ix  see  n'X                               -;TX  2200" 

\nx 

57";    _430";      59S";                     51^    1124"-" 

"??TS    342" 

12(i4";     12t)0";        T^"1"?   '^^    10-13" 

"TS    2S08" 

1780";  1!)19"                              '"^X    12t)5" 

"^-7X   210" 

Pin  ^;ns« 

57" 

^tf    3032" 

n^7X    417!1;   1  US";    1820"; 

: 

57" 

~rXl143S";         2121a;                                    24G?b 

^r"P*"ix 

Zbs/      2935";  3033"                          ^n/TS    1085" 

—*—  ...  —  »••  —  O- 

58a 

rib'X    IT7}"                                                ~^?    0";  7S";  525"'  ";  52t>"  ; 

^"•^""^ 

58a 

1351";     1430": 
nP"X    2188b                                                           1799,;  2554b 

-T^~S: 

58a 

1"X    1279";219:;";-'191";                        HX    739";  8(iS";  1548"-"; 

1"jS 

1418";  2315"                                                2453"                                                          2097";     30sj>< 

-HX 

54";   541";   2975"                            )DX    3-W!1;    473«;     1  l()9";                  nXnX 

•ns 

2150";      2193";                            ,  '78";  SO" 
OO"                                                                                 .>/>  (  -i     '                                                  !Hx 

T 

301;)" 

I     :• 

-flX 

297r)t'                                              ;:;X    2190" 

innx  S3" 

-  —  —  •  —  ^ 

788";  2077"                                 -,-i^    2194a 

~nx  iii3" 

-.  —  ./*  ^«  —  ^ 

01" 

":;X    2194" 

?nX    11  17";  2013";  2089": 

"?119 

900b                                                7|-X    3038" 

2544" 

r,"ns 

1235";  1984";  2814"                 TS'iX 

Tnx  <)iO" 

nnx 

1 

432";  1110";  1931";                   -,irj{  .o^ja 

nins  87" 

1934"                                       ^p.  y    ' 

TT-X    87" 

nnx 

1934" 

1S1H 

^"C'nX    87" 

nnx 

1934" 

-  3082" 

•ssj 

ninS    370";   1375" 

nnnx 

1931" 

r.'nx  2554"-  -'si:]* 

T    -:  - 

"lE'X    see  I^E'S 

THS 

2181" 

7HX    1335";  2422" 
n^1X    254";    587";    2S03-; 

nnx 

78a 

3007";  3008"                              THS    81" 

x^nx 

81a 

"liX    301";     517";     829":                   n"nS    87" 

"pns 

916a                                                               952";       1120";                 n^THS  ' 

bns 

1890";   1892"                            '  :  "  ";  ,-S2" 
2947b                                                                                                          TP7nX 

"1'X    IS";   589";   3039" 

~nx 

701-  1417";  21S1-;                       •                                                         -THX.    87" 

2887";     2888"; 
2947"                                         T^X    3039" 

r-7nx  87" 

nbnx 

2^la                                         bx^:?X    3010' 

T1X;    S3" 

nn^bnx 

2181"                                           nflTX  i 

TTS    SO";  910a 

npzpbnx 

2181" 

'         -3039" 

=&rns:  S3" 

irbnx  ] 

Z"?S    1113";  3040" 

n-^nx  see  n-^n 

102b 
IUiJ 

nbnx, 

nr;x  see  n:--i5 

n^nx 

T^rjs 

1";  2" 

P;X    1985";      2003";                 •'•»•;!?«' 

bx^ix 

3032" 

2393";     2789";             -pmns    83" 

2994";     3070"; 

nix 

509";     090";     S02";                                  aio4" 
9^^a;        1094";                       -x    ,..trjb 

rnx  85" 
-ri^nx  S3" 

nx 

2177";     24fiO"; 

2811";  3097" 

"27S    1070" 

n'-'nx  so" 

INDKX  OK 


BKKW   AM)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


•nbins 

SI1' 

HT*    lG79b 

•np^   see  n^i 

r,T2ins 

S5b 

53T1S    H1751' 

iriiS    15431' 

tfr.Eins 

85" 

T$ 

bsipiS    1543"'b 

T^ins 

^7^  '  I4381' 

"ITSniS    1543" 

V 

S4" 

1  '  n^ 

1  *TT    "• 

]  '10121';    1337h 

•(""c^ns 

SI1' 

'"-r""1^    1  llli1' 

2-pns 

85b 

n:"S  is2i" 

Z^iriS    51  11';   l()12h 

2"'rns 

S51';  (ill" 

nD^si 

tfS    5SS1';    143S1';   2S72" 

sec   ~"X 

TfCCinS 

Sli" 

•^rr"1^  ' 

n^TDS    371' 

"ttrins 

S31' 

b"S    22(i";  SI  7"  '•;  12G51'; 

"ips  7n:;h 

cp¥ins 

S  1" 

14351';     2171"; 

IL'TS    3(1" 

25271' 

'     T 

rrnns 

Sli" 

b;S    70  lh;  1115" 

i^-pns 

C;;       306Ga;  3155bi 

b:s  20  131- 

r-rns 

Sli" 

"i-         315H' 

b:s  i 

,  '        15131';  3032" 

"inpins 

Sli" 

.     T     - 

52S  - 

•"•rTis 

80" 

.^ 

nb;s   1M71' 

bsr.^ns 

Sli" 

"P~S    ();}().••  j  2919" 

"I3S    14121' 

nb  ns 

S7" 

p^s 

nr;s  w 

ibns 

S7" 

•j;b^s  ss" 

bs    1129'1;  1250";  1251"; 

npbns 

285Gb 

rib^s  ] 

1254"        12(14''; 

srrns 

36b 

rrs  J  ': 

12(i5h       12(17"; 
127S1'       1294"; 

•Qcnx 

SO" 

nb^s 

14931'       15301'; 

I     -     -: 

1532"       1519"; 

ins 

SIS';    820";     13751'; 

~-X    293.  )'• 

15531'       15551'; 

25571' 

npbs 

1S79"       2171"; 

"ins 
"ins 

37G";    11211' 

S31';  Sli";  2Sli5" 

Z'"1S    9331' 

21SS1'       21S9"; 
23  S91'       2949"; 
3034" 

fnns 

202G1' 

'1-515?  sooiibis 

5S    112G'>;  2411" 

nins 

SO1-;  sti" 

rb^S    S17";   139:v';  21SS'; 
2S301' 

•  "  •     l'9':>7|>'  r'tii1'-  r)c>7" 

5S1t;i            '             '          ' 

brnns 

SO1' 

2^S    see  EilTS 

bST,i3  bs    923h 

r.i-ins 

913" 

Z'^S    29191' 

rJ^abs  see  r"za 

•En-t'ns  2d97' 


":    SO1';  2(iO";  312(i» 

TUiTpns  I 
i-irrns  mil" 

l^PtJnS    547'1;    5  IS";     1  12:- 
2093b 

TJS    317";  2971" 

r-ss  mi- 

TJS    3171' 
"IBS    1S(15" 
•IS    151  I"'1';     15  is- 


944  b 


- 


ns 


S   952b 

"!iS    5401' 

n^S    88";     4771';     109 11'; 


^7"^S     1  57  1" 

21721' 

_r.x  , 

nbs 

91(lh;  2171 

l;  2407"; 

'•    3080" 

2949" 

nps  ' 

nbs 

1265b 

TTiS    145";     5i 

3";     S191'; 

H5S 

2171";  2949" 

1  095" 

1  lOG"; 

1279"; 

1132h; 

~5S 

1879";  247 

5b 

11  42"; 

150S1'; 

n'bs 

see  n*~S 

1  54  1  '" 

19711'; 

2337"; 

2411"; 

"T'bs 

133b;    GOO1' 

•      ]  1'>OI>. 

,     1  1  _  J  , 

2555"; 

2835b; 

1202b; 

1250"; 

3072"; 

3100" 

1251"; 

1254"; 

12GO"; 

12G4"-1'; 

ncs"ttjis  i.ios1' 

I265a-b; 

1268-"1; 

"in^jis  150s1';  ir 

11" 

1270b; 

1294a; 

IViiS    2091';  107 

0" 

1438"; 
1533"; 

1454"; 
17791'; 

zvj'tris  1511" 

2835b; 

2961" 

IM)1<;X  OK  HKBHKW   A\D  A  KAMA  1C  \VOKI)S 


3451 


5 1  1254";  1264b;  12(15'-; 
1779'-;  2012'- 


blbx    541'-;  9391' 

"jibX    99'-;     939";     2033''; 

20X2";     2171"; 

2172'-;       2407"  •'•; 

2902";     2949'; 

3128" 
•p2X    99'-;    21 7 11;     2107" 


T^SX    882";   12X9'1;   I308b; 


n~x  mo'1 

•,:nbx  92X" 

nX^bx  92X'1 

bx^bx  929" 


.      i  '.i^-.i 

nn*bx  J 


-'bs    2527";  275(1'-;  2'.»():{!l 
T  • 


n^xi 

,•^930" 


; 

929 


X  929" 

JrbX  930" 

bT?X  1258";   1 454" 

C^bx  929" 

?K  929'' 

bX  929'- 

bX  <)29" 

bX  934" 

bX  934" 

bX  938";   1743'' 

u "  938" 

bX  923'- 

bX  89b;    929";     1579" 

bX  934";  937'' 


938";  1743b 
929" 


nr^bx  sec  nrsrbs 

Cbx    4741';  XX2" 
Cbx    see  C'^X 

cbx  sec  msbx 

CbX    8X2";    1  Ki  I1' 

c^rnpbx  «»(i'';  2097'' 


•2X  sc(>  ?2X 

C":bX  «>39" 

1D2X  «.)3X'- 

ri"i"bx  92  ib 

T^bX  939h 

"•"bX  921'' 


912";927'';  105(1(; 
1799";  2793"; 
2975'' 

«LV  w,Vv» 

»  3N    sec   *. ••  ^^ 

bysbx  9:59'' 

-:pbX    93X" 

"bipbx  939'- 
xpnbx 

'•'  '"  (939'' 

nppbx  J 
•prbx  939'' 
rnrp  bx  24x.v;  2x30'' 

CX    Gd.'i1';    77X";    2092"; 
255  I1' 

npX    1335";   19(17'' 

n-cs  sec  n^rx 


IQX    117";    7(15";    2045"; 
3079" 

fVEX    11X'-;   2153'';    3091'' 
15'-;  10871' 


1'CX  290";  7(1(1";  10XX'1; 
2170";  255(1"; 
2X7  1  '' 


,  1  1 8" 
1X23";  2X72:' 


210";  340h;  5XX1- 
591";  14X4" 
21  12";  21  59" 
2972'1 

2159" 
1S221' 


CX    10XX'-;  2414";  3025"; 
3017'' 

•'FVEX    117" 
IX    sec    |"X 

X3X) 

,1  121' 

nsxJ 

n:X    495";  1351'-;  2512'' 
-2X    sec  X3X 


TU"X  145";  953";  110(1 
20X3";  2337 
2411";  3109'- 

nn:x  1307" 


^X    2731" 

n:X    2774";  2775b 


3452 


INDEX  OF  1IKHRKW  AM)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


i?:X  2731* 

0:X  695b 

a;s  31  is-1 

IE:X  1384" 

S:X  130Gb 


1900"  b;  190? 
E_:X  145";  2783"  b 

.'/"|2041b 

XCX    261b 
•pCX    206Gb;  2423» 
TCX    382";  2456° 

mCXl 

•  T     1103b 


SCX    405";  2863" 
P,:CX    206b;  20S91' 

T.CX    11771';  1199-  1737"; 
2  IK)";     2534b; 

253S'> 

TCX    262'' 
HECX    28Sb;  3 It)1';  2863a 

XrSCX    28Gb 

nCX    267b;    474b;    13401'; 
220()b 

ncx 

nCS 
ICX    971 


135b;  1085b;  11201'; 
19  IS";  2155b; 
21 56";  3113"; 
3126" 


see    i  iSJs 
^EX    9(>2b 
nEX    see  HE^X 

niEXl 

_.    ^  [878";  962";   14551' 

D^SX    207b 

p^EX    523b;    594";    2595- 

2867-  30741' 
"I^BX   see 
X   2177b 
962a 


•EX    see  "E'X 
CEX    13(V;  943";   143Sb 
^?  CEX    956" 

7EX    215(ib 

n^EX    2737b;  273S-  305 
PEX    28(17' 


1"";5X  22()S!> 


111"'1';  3079" 
b^X    72 lb;  2154* 
b-JIX    25()h;  GOG1' 
bl'X    2S04a 


:?X    344b 

rb^X    342";  9971' 
=S55    2206b 


"pX    592b;  1249";  3155 
3156" 

xnx  21  ib 

•bx~X    2:}S'';   1895a 


nnx  21  ib 

2^X  829b;  30ti3b 

:X:IHX  see  bx2-;x  r^: 

nanx  19071';    1908 
2405" 

nans  3i5b;  1437- 

IX  261a 


"  [225b;  1142" 

nrans > 
z^'ans  ii4i" 

m_X    940";    1545b;   307 


-^X  417a;  3078b 

•inX  I344a 

ianx  2509b 

'ans  377b;  673" 


mns , 

' '?.    2847b 


nrins 


:  't  1350s 


.^^  1-242- 605";  1886" 


2411-     2530"; 
3075b 


nrP.S    576b;  30751' 

nnnx  84sb 

"  \  1895".  '' 


S  r241-    1596b;    1S95 


)?S     S(!6    n  JN 

^X    3083a 

"X  see  mns 


SpS    818";  2263b;  2459"; 
3007b 

ijnS    1126h;  1918";  22(53'' 
969";  2818" 


INDKX  OF  HKBRK\V  AM)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


"'ISIS    222'';  22  11'                                   TISTTS    269'' 

'PX 

r!543b 

-1"T2"^X    251"                                              "'STBS    1228b                                             ^P^X  J 

""!S    22  1"                                                blpS    1307b;  2908'                                  CPX    1012" 

rX    224";    266b;     2201"                    DIBS  1                                                     bimSi 

.;^                                                      1102";  13091-;  2179h 

~-|X    sec  T^X                                       "IBS  J                                                     ""!£PX  j-1375'> 

•a:-]S    1338b;   1339"                                 2  ITS    7(5'';    1102";  2020-                blTCP.SJ 

VP1V1                                                                            2639''  ;  3010" 

-  r259-                               rraes  2179'- 

V";s  j 

nn^.l^j«                                                          "^^    1036b;   1395" 

t^is  see  n:-nx 

\~     2083";  2145";  2982";                 ^''-'PS    3181' 

•pX    258b 

T."  :  '         3074" 

"IX    225'  ' 

nnttip^ 

- 

aiffiX    2412" 

"IE-IS    259" 

nS3    421";    658-    2H)lb; 

wE^X    271  7b 

rV1--       ' 

3081" 

^  "'"I'T*^     QO"^a 

"pX    315";     316";     586"; 

1     Y        •        "                t7cf  / 

nsa  658" 

724";  887";  1281"; 

n»S    862b;  30971' 

X^Xa    424" 

1307";     1789"; 
1826b;     2780": 

HEffiX    882b;  2515b 

2V-X  1X3    424a 

3075";     3100-i                T^S    270a 

nnxa  424a 

3108''                                      -IE1BX    lll*b 

r      :      V 

Pl^.Sa    424a 

XinX    261  b 

]lbpffiX    269b 

"Xa    424" 

nnS    304  lb 

-•••v  ) 

irnsi 

.'     268".  b;  1248";  1308b     "^  ^  "IS3    424";    1316";    1821b 

•^224*;  247" 

nW                                               raffi  1X3    424b 

>-  J  ;K 

IffiX    409";    1438b;    1439a       ->;2  'r'lX3  1 

te^S    454b;  997b 

'*   '                                                     !   «•*!**"  *   [424b 

1  U*  ^        S                    l'wtB>                                                                                   1  1>  "1  "          J 

T!?X    1112";  2864b 

bx-lil5X    263"                                          np'ixa    424b 

"3TBS    267b 

nbsniBs  267a 

TBS3    6b;  672b 

•jai?,;X    997" 

'108b;    268b;    13()7b;                HffiXa    672b;    1293";   2155" 

?3TB'S    267b 

-.^        1386";     1390";               =,rj<3 
n>x,J      1452";     1454"; 

"affiX    1508b 

nn^ffiX        1533b;     2212";                    ^?3    210";  1070" 

"IBS    2867" 

2227";     2234a; 

133    421" 

2527h 

1-ffiX    2122b;  2762b;  2867a 
^ffiX    269a'b 
T1»S   267b                                       ,    .     ',".  ' 

baa    349";    350";    1590b; 
2765b;  2771"; 

xX^I^X    287" 

2995".  " 

1    '    '     i—    hS 

'    268a;  2400".  b 

bXPffiX  1 

"53    2179b 

sn     J 

,  .           '"     997a 

_"  ; 

^ISP.TBS  i 

^33    670";    935";    1839"; 

n»x  ni2a 

• 

2524b 

nxXPiI;X    997a 

HfX    2639".  b;  2643b 

^33    473a 

mi?S    145n;    526";    1040"; 

.  "T* 

xpr.a  473a 

1095";     1106b;  i              1  i4-uf  ">    wu 

tp"i3  1 

1339b;     1426";              3T)2PffiX 

(*    '•"•!• 

'"..     473" 

2555";  3100" 

XIP33  > 

?1^2PffiX    997a 

n^Xl272a.    290b;    1273";  '           nv^™»v                                                           ~?    1G°b;     402a:     '^y"< 

^11?X  1      Io69b 

5  18";    1894  "  ; 

"•""•'v'*    ^ 

PS    1438b;  2725b;  2911"                                  2850" 

'_>    269b;  272" 

XPX    see  nPX                                        S"3    1105" 

VTl'X 

brars  ioi2b 

""3    423a 

niBS   269b;  1311" 

npx  i 

nn-3    423a 

riTS    269b 

'    287^ 
XPX  J 

b^-3   99b;  29S5b;  2999" 

^ffiX    see  rnffiX 

•:PX   287";  67Sh 

b^3    316b;   2221";   2744'- 

riTX    1117b;  1426a;  2527" 

^PX    1149b 

nb^3    417";  2859" 

2TBS  ) 
^  V'  J671a;  997"  ;  3050a 

pinsi 

^    '  kl67a 

1"3    423a 

3454 


INDEX  OF  IIKBRKW  AXD  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


-,p.-Z    472b;  474'' 

TZ    700";     851";     939b; 

TS'P^S    454" 

?nZ    2309" 

1  105";     1484"; 
1904b;     1985b; 

ainn"r-|3  45ib 

•jnz    157(5";    198  lb;   2122" 

2199";     248(5''; 

spn  n^s  451  a 

b~3    31)19" 

2813h;     2921"; 
3089" 

ISTC  n^zi 

452b 

7T2713    4  IS1';  5S3b 

"PZ    51Sb;  2()18b 

_  »T?  n^z  J 

lilCTIZ    427" 

npz    2191";  3089" 

TZJT2T2J  P^Z    452b 

•HZ    494" 

ni^a  oor)1' 

-"EFl-p^Z    452'' 

pn'Z    11  15";  1S07'1;  2950" 

PP.-'Z    1137";  2208" 

S2Z    375'-;  20931' 

m~Z    11  15";   1807" 

r"3    41(5'';    442";    109  I'- 

"lira   1113b;2405b;2152b; 

1221";   'l24S"; 
1273";     3()7ob, 

ll  85b;     1417b; 
1418";     1434'1; 
2554";  2930" 

2453" 
""2Z    1103'1;      1  1  14".''; 
1343";     2044"; 

3082" 

"S  r^a    443" 

2905b 

',  * 

rr.ira  i 

z^z  see  res,  zz: 

5Srn3    442";   4431';   444'' 

U78";  2452'' 

mra  1 

TO    535b 

5S3-)S  r.^a    443" 

^^ 

T3    535b 

•^sna  r.^a  443b 

i/33    1109  ;   1122 

rnira  42  ih 

T3    4l(5b 

n-^z  r^z  443" 

Z^rZ    49  i1' 

b*3    528";  5  II1' 

-n:  r^z  445b 

12Z    2452'' 

Z"Z    see   n-CZ 

r-ca  r^z  445b 

, 

"ira    421";  547b;  548" 

n:-z  528" 

"^"^Z™  ~^Z    443b 

mrS    54  7b;  548" 

I*^T>    m,/,   ^22 

•jirn'n^s  443b 

*    • 

mra  see  m;2Z 

"p3    709";   1111";  1894"; 

"IkSn  P^Z    445'' 

2790''  ;  2791" 
p:;Z    512b 

^•t^«M_l    il    M!      ^±-rO 

mpa  49  ib 

mra    440";  4721' 

np/z   17  11' 

...^i-T3  -449a 

bz    2411" 

"lis    (558";.  2  l()l'';2500b; 

z-rn  r-z  445b 

ba  427" 

2s2()b;  3081" 

l-xbZ    379b 

•iL"Z    700h;    820";    2748"; 
2835" 

p-7m2n  T'Z    45()b;   1098a 

n:bz  473b 

^•lb5l     -l7Xb 

7Z    503b;  2139" 

f"'"? 

•*  *  ^       T-  i  O 

"73    578h  ;  2703" 

k    '-•  r  -."*'-      j-450b 

'-'• 

r'22~^.  r^z  ] 

nba    379b;  704b 

TP"  :  :     48o" 

p^rn  r^a  444b 

nnba  474" 

p7Z    459'' 

i  .    i 

7  _• 

-z-rn  r.ia  443" 

nnSS    29491' 

Tnz  i 

T     r     .    T 

7    T 

'   r3127b 

ZT1  P-Z    443";  440" 

•jnba  474" 

-ins  I 

l^n  r.^3    44(5" 

;.b3    2919'' 

.  >  :           '    .  ,  * 

-ID'i'n  P,"3    452'' 

sib  3  1 

•-Z    1050";  24(59'' 

,,;J,  .,    --^ 

^••K  '  r7G9a-b 

inz    27'1  ;      210";      012b; 

^u.'pL'n  i  ,  3    452 

• 

925"   '•;    1050b; 

nb:.n  rra  44(5" 

ISSClpba    38  1>>;  433b 

3071";  31271' 

-;"-n  r's  440" 

•'bZ    411" 

inZ    see  T.na 

12  P^Z    443b 

b^ba    875b;  2409b 

"  ,'378";  410" 

znb  r.^a  449" 

b^^bz    431";  3()37b 

jm.^.na  > 

mE?b  r^z  449" 

bbZ    349";     357b;     480b; 

n-JZ    290";     578b;     700"; 
27  II1' 

m'c:  n^s  450b;  isoiih 

700b;       1080"; 
24(59'';     2819"; 

n-JZ    57sb 

ri:y  n-^z  442" 

2929";  2995".  b 

n:3j  n^z  442a 

Cbz    2877" 

"-;    —  >-J(  J 

"P?  P^Z    2752b 

yba  i20a 

"JZ    432b;     44  lb;     4<)2"; 

i 

2837" 

•jbs  n^s  450b 

yba  43  ia 

•CZ    1123";  21701' 

-li^B  r^s  451" 

•>ybZ    431a 

n-'rjz  454" 

VSIE  r-'S  450b 

Zl'ba    378b;  473b 

INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3455 


pb3    379b 

1123    439" 

r?3    733b;  1153b 

"ISXTD53  I 
.".'      3Slb;  433" 

T?3    491a;  1547a 

r?3    1153b;  1935a 

"I5CS33  J 

1^'3    41Sb 

pJT3   2875b 

•JTS53    474b 

br3    458b;   1997" 

r,p.i3    512b 

mp3    1390"'b;      1517"; 

b^3    17  lb;    2S8b;     345"; 

i?a  no6b 

1533b;      1.530-; 
1589" 

346b;  347b;  348b; 
569";  741";  883h; 

11-3    459b;  1274" 

r023    381b 

1251b;     1427"'b; 

H1?3    2219b 

bnlc3  474b 

1428";      1533"; 
1535b;     1595"  •'•; 

ni5T3   512b;  2219b 

""HIS  3    3049b 

1689";      1997"; 

p3p3    378";     509b;     764a; 

?3  r"l"T523    381b 

2007'1;     2337"; 

2425b;  2814a 

2389'-;  2555" 

rrpspa  378» 

13    71a;     383%     401f>; 
433b;  474b;  ,528b; 

x?3    593b 

1p.3p3    378a 

606b  ;  678";  2554  b; 

r^a  bra  3-1  (5»;  347" 

^p3    528a 

2759b;  2826" 

--    '-"2      ')  J(!:1.    Q  17a 

13    434a 
S"S"13    145" 

"b"3    347";  2067" 

n^p3    528a 
rp.3    316b;     517b;     668b; 

1^2H  5"3    34  (5b 

3045" 

HpaS'ia    434a 

nb?3    l()3b;  417" 

rp.3    427";    873";    2032b; 

^iS~"3   439a 

3?3T  b?3    34(>b;  348";  1120b 

3081" 

13il~13    435b 

.._  L,..*.    ,,_                                             »?1?3    316b 

V     V 

1-H   373    34/" 

"Ip.TTia    434" 

liin  b?3  347'' 

nrp3    592b;    593";     673"; 

HIS    145b;  527-  b;  1968";       .;       '    u.'.I    \ 
2894b                                         "*3    346b;  34  tb 

734";       240Gb; 
2407";  3045a 

TlO'l?    435b 

^•3    347b 

Pp3    94  lb 

i".33    474b 

?"^'*?a    423b 

1p.3    1472b;  1799"  ;  2710" 

rrrir-ja    439" 

n^bra  41  7" 

1p3    583b;  584a 

1^n~13    438a 

trbra   347b 

1p3   798b;  1375b;  2082b; 

b^n-]3   438a 

11?T2  bra    347b 

2083" 

lr:n"-3  438a 

1^'5  5"3    346b 

P7p3    2704" 

iorr-3  438" 

s-?is  bra  347b 

TCp.3    1472b 

*;3    382b;  383" 

I;E±  bra  34Sa 

13    667";    668b;    2041b 

"•331 

mrbir  bra  347^ 

13    433b 

'-    528b;   2835a 

1"?5. 

nbra  347a 

13] 

•r  '«  ' 

'T  -.  - 

1    3082b 

rt"n~1*^1      A'iia. 
V*  J**        *T*      ^rOrr 

1X3  nbrs  347a 

13J 

H^3    527a 

TCP  b?3    348a 

X13    145b;     612b;     613b; 

B 

738"-  b;     1046"; 

'  TT":     434a 

x:r3  34Sa 

1202";  1968" 

1i"Pl3  i 

n:?3  348" 

1*1X13  1 

.-^t,1     2036b 

"jp?:  ^:3   435b 

"l?3    526b 

n^:3  593a 

ir3    1125a 

1S13    see  ^13  P^3 

^^a    438a 

Nir3    348» 

rnans  439a 

ir;3  438a 

»ffi?3    348b 

13-3    1143" 

»?;3i 

n^TCr3    348" 

"113    1319b;  2405a 

474b 

• 

n?p3  J 

f3    2000" 

"13    439b 

i£37"l3   434a 

n^3  2000a 

H13    612b;  613b 

n?Tcn  441a 

i?3    459b 

Tf1"13    407";  487a 

>1C3    440b 

"P$3    3050" 

t;;,13    512b;  llllb 

1C3   2838a;  3050a 

b^3    1122";  2196a 

rii3  inib 

n?3   494b 

bxb$3    459b 

nri-a  i 

' 

T   .        440b 

1?3    2358a 

n^bsa  i 

,  •       417a 

. 

nb^3    458b;  1997" 

n^b^a  J 

niris  478b 

3450 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


bn2    .'Ml1';  1348";  1492a; 

Pira    346a;     012";     700b; 

^    1150b 

2181";  302  7b 

1595"'1';     2748";  , 

n^a?  11  sol) 

r?7i2  4iob 

n-2    1080b;   1148" 

2901" 

T2    210";    G(>3b;    2045"; 
2554b;  3001" 

nraa  ii23b 

3T25    51  lb;  2525b 

rra  see  rr-:2 

r2    414";    1113";   30X0" 

"1^25    2052"  ;  25  1  3b  ;  25  14"; 

•H3    4391' 

bsnra  452b;  45  1" 

2554b;  3102" 

•'12    440" 

b^p.a  454" 

t'^25    709";    7G4b;    2XOIV: 

286  lb 

mia  40  ib 

_'^^-,_       i(i/'—  i,.     'iM-ib 

• 

^"f     *'    :         IWO/    ',     -i().)l 

baa  oil" 

rP-2 

• 

T 

1148";  2154" 

"  ''r-T*    1!)t)<  ' 

523    072";  1180" 

rra  < 

rrra  -183" 

b23    1180b 

rP13    309";  404" 

nra  444'-;  i»72b 

nb23    sec  nb^l23 

rvp-Q  439b 

z^2Tna   no- 

"^25    1180b 

rP13    244h;     440";     460b; 

-•nra  483" 

.^     „ 

699";  727";  728"-'1; 

' 

'  —  .'      /  OU 

729'1;  730";  731"; 

"2r~r,2  410" 

raa    1150a;1180";  1392b; 

746";     2550>>; 

;v"tL*~r2    .|i  (').•»•!' 

1945b;  2013b 

300Sb 

S3725    12a 

r,-n3  282ob 

. 

T     : 

»* 

113725    1392"  h 

"12    22b;      485b;       187"; 

T   • 

101     "o 

nX5    2875b 

n3?25    721>>;  1224'-;   1225"; 

lolO 

'~X"X5    1''22" 

2082" 

=n?  isi5' 

biC-2    402b 

r^S5    1050";  2S75b 
•j^Sa    1050";  2S7.V- 
bxa    340b;  1272b;  10831'; 

•^"25    1225b;  1392b 
by  25    494b;  1120b 
r:'23    12251' 

n:^2    139";     487b;     058"; 
1881";  2419b 

1S10";   2022"; 
2410";  2530"  •'• 

-125    1050" 

rC'2    058";  1117";  Kill)1'; 

bsa    10";    2500";    2555"; 

125    145a 

1808";     24  !«)'•; 

3030" 

125    145a;  11  SO1' 

2791a 

n'3  S3    1  799"  ;  2079"  ;  2080"  ; 

125    12241' 

rT313    439b 

OSQfJb 

i    :     -.-  v 

*..  )«>i  t 

n^2?  see  "iaa 

3na  439" 

23    411";     505";     941a; 

bsiiaa  ii5i" 

p13    1235";  1892b;  2X59" 

2594b 

T123    1821b;  2007a 

23    1390" 

'•"  v    : 

P"?2    402b 

23    417a;  568" 

•|;r23    1224b 

Cip13    404" 

;,3    1437* 

23    1907b;  190Xb 

•p12    2974" 

13    710" 

23 

Pp13    2850b;  2857" 

[829b;  1251" 

13    1152" 

1          .  IT 

213  i 

"Pa    007b;    008";    1143"; 

S23    5GX";    19X51';    2000" 

13    1151";  1152a 

1981b;  2500b 

H25    1049b 

1215    3007b 

3:11512  477b 

H25    1050";   1309" 

H1515    1308a 

niC3  44i" 

^251 

115    7G9b 

bUJa    494";  2250b 

'  H390" 
--25  J 

~113    see  "ilia 

CbtfJ3    478b 

b^23    503";    511";    182Gb; 

rna  383a 

cira  38ib 

1894" 

H13   see  !113  13?n 

aiL'3    381b;  2178b;  2544b; 

n^ai503";     51  la;     672"; 

"ma  382a 

2818";  2840" 

nbaa  J    !S26b 

-P"3  i 

matea  4ii" 

"'.;aa    145";    255b;     312'-; 

!  ^254b;  1150b;  1152a 

-113  J 

lisa    ii" 

491a;593a;1224b; 

1  »  i 

1264b;     1207"; 

'*™]724*;  1294";  1389b; 

lira  2039" 

1308a;     1570b; 

^-A  }     202Gb;  2441b 

lira    287b;  1118b;  2433"; 
2S13b;     2814a; 

1000b;     2189a; 
3045b 

nbma  i 

',  _     849a 

2837a 

'      '  [2008a;  2063a 

T     \: 

niir3  see  rnica 

nn23J 

ima    see  113 

INDKX  OK   HKHRKW  AM)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3157 


•Ha    1248>>;   17971' 

nna  3083" 

n^a    65";       159";      852"; 

^"a    1153" 

bra—  iia  131  ob 

1052";     219Gb; 

'T 

2415b;  2581"'b 

•'"a  1153" 

uj^a 

> 

669b 

n*a  I 

bs^a  1153"                              EPS 

r    2581" 

m"3    383"                                                     "3    2093' 

-•!;.  Hee  r^. 

rr-a    1249"                                              ^.313    3007b 

_•_- 

b-3    522b;  1050";  1965"  '                        TT3    7091';   21l5b;    2751b 

_••..".  '  12:51'' 

T                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I    1  X     ^ 

:-a  ii46b                                Ira  1179'-                               _^  fillb 

bia    1226b;2157"                                    bra    704b;   7-I71';   3051"                       '.,:,., 

b^a    see  b'-3                                        ^ra    1473":  1907b:  1  90s'-;                      v...  l(i12" 

T        223(>"                                             "^ 

n2"3    see  n~""? 

c-ja  1180"                             ™'%  5G9b 

mb"j3  ii8i" 

1T3   862b                                             n^   2751h 

Tb^a    1226" 

1T3    1179";  1222-                               """^,1234";     2597a-b; 

^   316-769^                                  n^.    2g36;                                           v^J      2900b 

•jiy-3    1226b;  122S'>                                ^^                                                         ^u-  1 

.3^  _ti*    llj!2oa                                                             f  l^oo                                                  —»•,'«.-  j 

i     U    J#4         SGG         |     i  1     1     'i*                                                                                                      T         •     : 

""a    669b;    1106b;    2007"                                                                                   -n^i'-n    n«7b.  ncQa.  0-37^ 
"iina   432"                                        ~  '-'^    Hb7b;  1183a;  2377a 

-l-a    1181b 
'Tn5  QOP  ^T^^^i 

•  '  '••      ooc        !  '  *    •? 

E^Sa    1167" 

n-ai 

.«•«••.        — 

.   !   H82"                                  :na 

i  _  -r^    12<  6b 

i"na  J 

,  , 

bn3f67ib 

2b3    688";  2597";  30X1  b 

ma    1106b;  1366b;  1367" 

rbna 

bb3    1154" 

--IT3    97  ->7b                                                        '  •••  - 

1    I    I    til      &l  dt 

-Z-1       ,  b         1     -  •-                 ="3  1153'' 

"'bba  i229b 

n"4  ns^'1                           ^-  1153h 

"ITOpa    833b 

^    see  "a                                         ""~2    897";  1163";  1229b; 

"|"^|—  a  ii8ib 

1350b 

Tma  ii82" 

Nnit   1   1  1  =oli.   1'^Ola.   1()nO:i.                                      _. 
:-  ill-jo    ,1.       i    ,   i.     '.;    ,                           ~;""~"i     199Ob-    19'^l'i-   •Wfi^b 

-3  1      3045" 

nna  766b 

23    1983";  2475b;  3120" 

nna  2026" 

"^3   280  11' 
XKl   242";  2627" 

rn^a  i22sb 

:ra  i442b 

-123    765" 

•'in^a  ii62" 

* 

ma    1250";  1907b;  1908b                       7 

"123    1173h 

:oa  1273"                                r!}1755'1 

b^3    435" 

ma  492" 

bltta    445b;  1173b 

-T^a  1290-                              ri^  sce  ri'? 

nb^a  8i7" 

L.                                      r.ra  1232" 

T        ' 

"[1215-;  1341-23I9"                     ^3    591";    1893'-;   2408" 

iripa  123  ib 

ni*  '• 

5ra    511";  307Gb 

"I"1  3    see  ~a 

mi3    492";  722b 
"TL'^a    1219b 

bra    547h;  584";  1339a 

Z^la    1273";  2980"-  b 
-a    1350b;  3081b 

•^ra  ns3b 

n^nai 

\.m    569b;  855";  1052b                          X^    see  n53 

bsibra  iiGS" 

nba  i32ob 

npa  i276b 

"jb-13    1273b 

.  , 

n^nra  1 

•^;ia  isiob 

>3ba    1229b 

_^  :'  '  J1183b 

baba   2597b;  3082b 

T      1    "i 

y^3    848b 

( 

'3    1174";   1808" 

nE^ia   492";  722b 

5373    1163";  1231";  3082b; 
see  also  53p3n  Pi^a 

1:3    748";  2972" 

"I^)l310b;1895";2467b; 

pbab3    1275";  1348";  2415b; 

233    2972" 

13  1     3083" 

2416";  2814b 

ra:a  748" 

nia  1895" 

"!53   2813b;  2814" 

r,2:3  i2isb 

3450 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


bna    34  lb;  1348";  1492a; 

rt?2    340";     012";     700b;                     ^33    1150b 

2181";  3027b 
n3T13    4101' 

1595"'b;     2748- 
2961" 

n^as  11  80b 

ni3    1080b;   1148" 

r.3    210";    G03b;    2045"; 
2554b;  3001" 

nraa  ii23b 

rr.2  see  rr^2 

ra    414";    11  13";   30X0"                 Hl^aa    2052"  ;  25  13b;  2514- 

^12    439b 

bS'^r2    452b;  454- 

2554b;  3102" 

•H3    440" 

U-,r3    4_l:, 

^33    709-    7G4h;    28(50": 

rP12    401b 

nbina  i9G~b;  305  ib 

280  lb 

baa  5ii" 

mis  i 

1     1148°;  2154" 

n^r.3  i<)07b 

b3a    072";  1180- 

rPia    309";  401" 

rrr-2  483- 

ira    444b;   1972b 

b33    1180b 

nb23    see  nb^23 

rtpia  439b 

—  —  —  —  —  ——       I  1 

rPl2    244b;     440";     4G01'; 

-•-  —  T         IC-i.t 

^23    1180b 

G99-727-728".'*; 

"33    760b 

729b;  730-  ;  731-  ;            "2ir~r,3    410" 

"33    11  50";  1180";  1392b; 

740";     2550'-;             rr-r3    41G"'b 

1945b;  201  3b 

3008b 

S3733    12" 

r,i13    282<  )b 

.,.„,.          ,-,,.       ,s-a.                                     "* 

nr33    1392"'b 

1815*                                         ™'    2S7")b 

ny33    724b;  1224b;  1225"; 

TT~'2    1815a 

20X2" 

•"""V       1M~(Vi-    OV~"b 

•pyaa    1225b;   1392b 

Tfia    1815"                                           '  'k-t*        o    '  w 

"V3    '   .--,()*•  9S7^b                                "3223    494b;  1120b 

38D13    4021' 

I      ,,,.        ,-,,.      .-s,.                      ^a    340b;  1272b;  10S31';                   ""?*    1225b 

181()a;   2022";                      -133    1050" 

2410";  2530"  b                          ^"* 

rc^a    058"-  1117";  1010b;                     v^<             o-nc       >  ^^    145a 

1808-;     2419-                       ^-        ^                                        ^33    145a;1180b 

2791" 

n'5«3    1799"  -2079"-  2080"  •                      ^*    1224b 

n^Sia    439b                                                                -j-vnb 

"'''^                                           (1^33    see  >      '  —  -* 

33    411";     505";     941,               ^Z;.    „„/ 

p13    1235a;  1892b;  2X59" 
p-;2    402b 

2594b 

ni23    1821b;  2007a 
2il    1390"                                               .  vv  : 

linaa  1224*' 

Cip")3    404" 

23    1907b;   190s1' 

J3    1437" 

Ip13    2974" 

,;.                                                           13    710" 

np.13    285Gb;  2S57" 

.    J829b;  1251" 

13    1152" 

"113    607b;    ()G8";    1143"; 

X23    508";    1985b;   2000" 

13    1151";  1152a 

1981b;  2500b 

H23    1049b 

1313    3007b 

Tpl-.     4//b 

H23    1050";   1309" 

-1313    1308a 

mZ33    441" 

H231 

113    7G9b 

bp2    494";  225(>b 

'    1390" 

n-,23  J 

"113    see  1^13 

2bm    478b 

raa    503";    51  1";    lx2(»b; 

-13   383a 

ntoa  38ib 

1894" 

H13    see  H13  "1SH 

Dip?    381b;  217Sb;  2544b; 

Hx^aai  503";     511";     G72-; 

1^113    382a 

2818";  2S40" 

nb33  J      182Gb 

1^113  1 

n^t'3  4iia 

1;;33    145";     255b;     312b; 

!  ^254b;  1150b;  1152" 

-113  J 

-,r2  4ii" 

491";593a;1224b; 
12G4b;     1207"; 

""'13  J724a;  1294";  1389b; 

11133    2039" 

1308a;     1570b; 

^  1     2026b;  2441b 

"YB33    287b;  1118b;  2433"; 

1606b;     2189a; 

-'-i-i 

2813b;     2814"; 

3045b 

"'.'  ''    849a 

2837a 

!11^33  1 

^S^S  ' 

1  ^2008";  20G3a 

T    ^  ' 

niira  see  tniiira 

rrqa  ' 

liia    see  113 

INDKX  OK   HIOHHKW  AM)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


H3 

124Sb;  17971' 

nna 

3083" 

nba 

65";       159";      S52"; 

^a 

1153" 

5"2  1^3 

1310b 

1052";     2196b; 

2415b;  2581"'b 

^^  • 

1  1  V-5" 

uj^a 

, 

•  - 

i  i  •  /»> 

6(>9b 

n^a 

1 

bx-Ha 

1153" 

ttra 

J 

xba 

|2581a 

-1-3 

3X3" 

73 

2093' 

,T  ; 

n*3 

see   i"ix"3 

n*ia 

1249"                                                13T3 

3007b 

—  •'«. 

"la 

522h;  1050";  1965"  b                        773 

769b;   24  15'-;   275  lb                    _••,,. 

[l231b 

^";^ 

11461'                                                   773 

1179b                                 'r^3 

51  lb 

b'-ia 

1226b;2157"                                    b'3 

704b;   74  7h;   3051" 

T 

'  *'•* 

1 

~~3 

see  b'-3                                          273 

1473";  19()7b;  19()x'>;                      ui,. 

M112" 

u  . 

223(1"                                           '** 

J 

~?~a 

see  "v"3 

D-ia 

1180" 

569b 

rC?"a 

1181" 

173 

862b                                                 n- 

2751b 

*^r^  x^a 

1226" 

"^•^S^ 

, 

•  i  -  • 

173 

1179b;   1222" 

11234";     2597a-b; 

y*^3 

316b;  769'- 

"«i"ib3 

J      290()b 

. 

n^7i» 

29;56" 

•psna 

1226b;  1228'-                                ^ 

b^ba 

1 

"'^"a 

1228" 

12:«l                                  nb^b3 

fl!21!l;  1163";  2594b 

~-a 

48  5b 

'  u; 

pna 

see  ")in^3 

*T        -I 

724" 

n? 

669b;    110(ih;   2007" 

•jina 

432" 

nib^ba 

1167b;  1183";  2377" 

"^  .;3 

">Tna 

SGG      Tn^il 

a^ba 

1167" 

•na 

•1182"                                 bna 

n.^ba 

1276b 

-ma 

• 

67  lb 

y>* 

688";  2597";  308  lb 

H3 

1106b>  136(lb-  1367" 

,  , 

-T 

nbna 

'& 

1154" 

rn-a 

rr-3 

=n3 

1181b;  1366b;  1367" 

1153b 

"'bba 

12291' 

nn3 

1153b 

833b 

rnna 

1181b 

is 

see  "''a                                          '^  '5 

897";  1163";  1229b; 

"'"'"a 

11811' 

1350b 

^rn-a 

1182" 

*""" 

1153b;  1394";  1909";                    _«u. 
3045" 

1229b;  1231";  206Sb 

nna 

766b 

• 

Z3 

1983";  2475b;  3126" 

nna 

2026" 

."^ 

280  4b 

242";  2627" 

iirT1!! 

1228b 

—  ?3 

1442b 

765" 

raia 

"7n")3 

1250";  1907b;  190Xb                      ~- 

1162" 

1^3 

1173b 

313 

1273"                                              ,"^ 

1755" 

b^rca 

435a 

nna 

492" 

b'i'523 

445b;  1173b 

ribia 

see  r"ix3 

1 

]7*3 

1290" 

nb^ica 

817a 

n^a 

1232" 

r    ' 

"i"3  ' 

1TV<3 

1231b 

• 

1215";  1341";  2319"                     -p3 

591";    1893'-;   2408" 

,  r' 

"it  - 

bra 

511";  3076b 

~\^ 

see  "3 

npa 

492";  722b                                   _  .  " 

1219b 

bp3 

547b;  584";  1339a 

alia 

1273";  29X()-i' 

1350b;  308  11' 

^ 

1183b 

nb-3  ) 

569b;  855";  1052h                         S?b3 

see  n?3 

bx^bra. 

1168a 

n?a 

nba 

13201' 

ipa 

1276b 

ibia 

1273b 

.  /  ~ 

1 

"253 

1229b                                          '  '•  '-"'•  \ 

I  1  Q'Jh 

ij^a 

1310b 

i~"pi^a  J 

yna 

848b 

bab3 

2597b;  3082b 

13 

1174a;   1808" 

ns^ia 

492";  722b 

^ba 

1163!l;1231";3082b; 

see  also  ^3*3n  nn5 

748";  2972a 

T:ill310b;1895";2467b; 
ia  1     3083" 

nbab3 

1  275";  1348";  241  5b; 
2416";  281  4b 

ra?a 

2972" 

nia 

1895a 

~b* 

2813b;  2814a 

r?:3 

1215b 

INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


nsa: 

p.TZJ^a    1219" 

2422b;     2459"; 

'  ,1174- 

• 

2534b;     2581b; 

nsa  - 

i-iiZJa    522";  1219 

2839b;  3105" 

T:a    182b;     5  18";     554b; 

initia    269h;   1220" 

"13"   2094b  ;  2348"  ;  2403"  ; 

560b 

-ra   492-;  11751';   1219b; 

2405" 

r:ai 

y  f3007b 

2525b;  2781- 

"13"    see  1^3T 

1T2Tp3    1175b;  1219h 

n731    943";  22()0b 

!fT:a    3007'1;  3008"  b 

•Tpa    1280-;  12S1- 

"73-  sec;  rnnhi 

lirra 

ssra  1232- 

\  1232" 

T    • 

n731    2774b 

•nnsa  i 

na    1177";  2045-;  3086b 

P31    843b 

nrh  12481- 

isnn  na 

_._    ^-,;i 

, 

"  \  1178-4   T'3''- 

-IT 

rra    0>>;  818";  2541" 

ncn  nna 

W3"    1123";1418b;2237h; 

bra  ii50" 

Ta    1232";  2095" 

3050" 

1"a    2535" 

2"ra  1232- 

nTlJ3~    528";  776" 

n7"a  2535" 

n^na  2488- 

-"~'77t)b;  777";    1114b; 

tjra  ii50" 

nna  i22ib 

as-|      1115";  3082b 

sr.ra  ii75b 

'(i'En'na    1178";   1221b 

n:n    1114b;  1115";  3082b 

ra  1390" 

•prn    776b;  2389b 

j 

]?a    22371';  282  1'1;  3()49b 

b?"    31()b;  3070b 

1;3S-    2399b 

ISa    1279b 

1       : 

•31    720b;  722a 

ITHE3    522'*;   1279'- 

^•J    577b 

1?1    2813b 

naJ2467b;2468a;2556b; 

"m  '  867b 

"11    2923b 

-pjj      2865"  •'';  2866" 

y$rn> 

nnl    1248a 

TuX"    577b;  1354"-b 

"13    see  "P3 

rni 

\ 

"S1;!    477b;    1121";   30(i2b 

!    816b 

X-<3    1217" 

n:-n  J 

n^d  s(j(^  nx^ 

.     T        . 

373  27ot  ;- 

v 

D"1;"1!    816b 

373  1175- 

1  Ui7b 

ai;-tt  ] 

31™  ) 

'\     867b 

r  "iiana  2129- 

n3-    S1S-;  28141' 

"ipaia  1232- 

__---  • 

sin*  8i9b 

~7,a    605b;    1217b;   30S1- 

'  ''"^  !  -423";  813b;   1  123" 

-73* 

iil    see  3OT 

nna  see  "«.ia 

•^31  x 

311    23991' 

•  „ 

V   '  '•  r872'' 

311    see  3™ 

.  '   2093a;  2129- 

1               IV 

pa 

(604b;  813b;  1105-'1'; 

3;1     1115b 

nina  1219'';  1170- 

"^l        2198b;     293()b; 

njH    1116";  141'.)" 

13-1        2931"'b;      2932"; 

2^-T-ia    1218" 

2933b;  2938b 

~:i~1432b;  1981-;  2555"; 

.*    ]^r     SCO         1  1*7 

nb3"    843b 

-i-  |     3035b 

•jna   341";  2998b 

nb:n    1109b;  1122b;  1426" 

"!11    412b;     413";     541"; 

znai 

2^3-    843b 

1793b;  2423" 

T    287b;  495b 

"11  1 

nnaj 

D^n^l.    see  DTixZl'l  n,"1? 

^      [790b 

•'•pna  ii75b 

p3;I   G68b;  1338" 

'^l  v 

pa   60(5";    722";    2196b; 

p3^T    2821" 

rTTn    332h;  2555a 

2975b 

P31    1121b;  1338" 

1111    867b 

pa  see  pia 

"13T    174b;  1253";  1983"; 

inilll   867b 

rna  849" 

2112";     219S'-; 

•'111    1981a 

"na  605b 

2411";    2459"; 
2515";  2550b 

^111   867b 

in^l    1217b 

131    65";  423";  496";  533"; 

nil    1468a 

UJ75    1219" 

577b;  679b;  730"; 

nil   2783"-  b 

mrha  io49b 

T    \  : 

789b;  817";  883b; 
905";       1439"; 

nil   2506b;  3072b 

ni»ia  1219" 

1982";     2009"; 

\^1    1086b 

INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


"P"n    see  TH 

nb^bi  S2ob 

yi~-    788b 

PE'OT    1419";  1839b 

H^bl    513b                                              lini    2974";  2975" 

npn  882a 

bb'H   94  lb                                             Ci"^    2838a 

pOT2^    see  pttE? 

Ifb"    849"                                             ni-ll    1881b;  2874- 

:*:i-  3075b 

•12?-    778"                                           TDr-1,1!    788" 

-m    381" 

pb-    1107";  146S"                                TJ^-}    1248";  2975b 

•vni 

.     70b;  1199" 

rpbl    ll()7b;  1468"                                ?H-    706";     769b;     799'-; 

TJJ 

-.U-                                                                                  1  42  1  b-      1  98'>"- 
rix^T    869'"  1175b-   1435a>                                                                  ' 

TIT 
.     869b;  1326" 

2411";3075b 

"IOT 

ann  883" 

CT    488b;     490";     675b; 
730";       1272b; 

'1125-1T    788";  2077a 

TL'l^T 

2404";  3050" 

rn1!   246b 

np"    694b;  1098b;  2794'-; 

yri  788a 

T^"    2511b;  2975b;  3156" 

1 

•  _ 

,    w 

PP11    789a 

nrni 

'  '    2204b 

nn-J 

niri    145b;    146";    1098b; 
1264";     1450"; 
1983" 

tJll   578a;    687";    1049b; 
1472b;  2515' 

V>>*<  —  >         r-oOK 

2£-    1094";  1126b 

CN  uJ  '  k     »)1-  w 

•rn    2055" 

^~g~    2854b 

NTTn    1293";  1375";  2947a 

"H    1267a 

ITZJ'-T    '•)7b 

.;._.,,.. 

]tt    882b 

'  .  ^  '  f843b 

n^s    849";  2593b 

'TIJ'H    1101b 

1 

—-.p..    l?Ql>.,b 

P1!    1983" 

3?"    1115b 

(   I*'   _  "I      /  J_O 

rVH   477b;   2697";   2738" 

ptpri'n    769" 

Xn-    1293a;  2947a 

YH    1469" 

p^^ll 

w    870b 

anr  n  866b 

5^!(77Sa;  92!)b 

).- 

;  H051b;  2408b 

'-    781" 

n 

nsn    78b;   1311a 

•;H    1965" 

bs:-  see  bs*:^ 

^"insn  see  n"!nn 

n:11"  849b 

-2?    787" 

bnni 

s^r^  849b 

na-:1^  849b 

,  v  -     5a;  3045b 

n?^  see  ns-n 

^V    787b 

•JSh   894" 

pi"    113()b;  2787"                             ^*~  \7^h 

ssni 

^V*T  I 

a  "     1367" 

•jir^                                 1?:  T?  78/b 

n.)n    1307";  1456";  2026a; 

.^^    854b;2511a'b;3155b;                       yi   2198" 

2102" 

3156"                                      , 

xN""~    834b 

Pl3.n   2026" 

TO^. 

}J^    1069" 

^^jH   2026a 

S21    526b 

r?tl    766";  1815b;  2191";                  "P^n    1389b;  2026a;  2488a; 

2581  b;  27()2b                                            2822" 

X2n    706a 

npS-   869b                                               "13H    1316" 

n:^  523" 

T 

P^     883b                                                                  ^"llSlQa 

13^    2527b 

.•      ,_  . 

p^    767b 

N  "u  J 

'_    '''J2538a 

nbpi  849" 

n**  ^        1O1    1  a 
jH    Idl4a 

bt!   2420";  2427" 

PP"   526b 

™^T?*]'jn    1314a 

Ip1!    819b 

"I11G""!—  —  n    1314a 

"SIT    1320b;2399b;2420"; 

!    "_~ 

2977" 

TH    676a;  1984b                                  *nn    1467a 

,  ''[526b 

T7!    see  11" 

n-mn 

'  .    ":    1316a 

15*1  > 

lisni  1 

2-nn 

L" 

'   6b;  978" 

i  819b 

1^7^ 

D-n   2103b 

T|n?^1  ' 

•in-n  i248b 

nD"H    1006";  1314b 

3460 


IXDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


1~n    678b;  724--  1086" 

bbn    1393" 

^    2959" 

*nn    1050";  1235b;  1278b 

abn  1370" 

snrn  3044h 

nn-n  i235b 

=bn  i395h 

n^:i  3045b 

e"1~in    see  Z"^~n 

rr-ebn  i325b 

^C?T    30.58" 

"M?"1""  1314" 

Cn    1324" 

^:tC1    296  lb;  3046" 

son 

sr-jTsn  se(>  sric 

TCI    30461' 

'  '   [1204-   1535" 

n'n 

n^n    697h;  764b;   13061' 

"in    1235b;  1278b;  1  K)2b; 

lien  !  i-i-j     (}()ii,;      i;525b; 

T 

14  IS1' 

"^n  -       °   j 

2X7    1548b;2201";3099b; 

ni"in  1403- 

rcbiGn  see  rzb-c 

3133b 

n^^in  1403" 

*  ^  Jj    "^"^""H       1  '•?*•£*?!) 

nS<T    585";  13751';  1376"; 

inT"in  1403" 

T*^^™1      1  '^'-?Ol> 

1559";  2745b 

n'~in  1403" 

!j:^n  see  -%en 

127   944";  3135" 
"27   3128" 

n;~'n    140:5" 

'                                   ^U.*J» 

T    T 

nin    see  SOn 

"7       see   :|^_ 

^"27    3128b;  3134" 

n*n    540b;  2122b;  2155" 

T^n    1324b 

bX"'"27   3128"'  b 

n^"27  i 

znin  1403" 

ni"rn  ] 

*__-:    3128";  31331' 

^in  78b 

"    589tt 

in^"27 

=(?!'i'-1-) 

2^;27   423b;    11201';    1473" 

2-Tl    852^ 

nan  i395b 

"127    31281' 

U  7J  ;n      141  i   ' 

^^ZM    ^oot)'1 

1 

L^-j     .,-,()()!, 

"127    3128b 

y^TlJin    1431";  27591' 

y:n  i374b 

"^    4423b;  3134b 

"r;n    1424";  1431-  1713b; 

-?n    594";    706";    1147" 

.  *'' 

2202" 

•    u                    ;   '  ' 

11512"  ) 

"i"  *2^^ii~    see  "*I*iS^^^ 

. 

ppyinn  1431" 

IT.-                                                     :     V   1 

"^27  H623";  3135" 

IT'in    1431" 

fipn    see  f  "P 

: 
1*127  ) 

"in    1066b;  1225";  137(V-; 

: 

n^n    1087";  120  lb;  1254b; 

1392"'  b 

%'bl27   3135" 

1267b;      1336- 

"lh    1121-   lSl()b;  3076" 

H27    l()6b 

1535";  25  151' 

T 

-pn    -j0,, 

snn  1337" 

H27   2639"  ;2642b;  2643"; 

b^n    14()5b;  14  38";  2208"; 

:nn    2SS-  746";  2094" 

^^•^       "-I.     f^OK: 

2644b;  3132b 

^27    3128b 

2930  '    ,  —.(31 

i  >  \i  <   o  j  oyo 

2932b;     2933  b; 

Plgi^^    •>(!'>  5b 

nn^JT    3134" 

2935b;  2938b 

enh  i42ib 

S:/27    3134" 

bb^n    800" 

•nn    1337" 

b27    3135" 

••C"1"    13741' 

b2T    see  '^27 

"pn    1393";  3080" 

C-".n   302";  665"'  b;  1491"; 

•1527    see  llb^27 

1  '"'-    ~'(>''' 

1492" 

•27    11531' 

bn 

,  '     459";    1141";    13951' 

^n    13921' 

jj    17931' 

ns^n 

._-,_  . 

T   :    T 

•    T'-: 

"T   24381' 

np^bn  3075b 

•nnn  ^  1337" 

nj  nod" 

tjbn    522b;    706";    10511'; 
1121b;     1141"; 
1248";     1344"; 
2919b;  3076" 

2T?Jn    1342" 
"~n    1343b 

2n7    1111-;    709";    1087b; 
1274";     2045a; 
3077" 

•fbn   3007b 

bnn  2072b 

nnT  3i3ib 

!fbn    769"^  b;  2991' 

rrn   1456" 

inT   2773b;  292  11' 

bbn   491";     587-     6SOb; 

17    2411" 

1  105";     1239- 

*] 

17    see  T>T 

1323";     1445"; 
1941b;     I9601'; 

I""!    30461' 

21T    1542b;  2399b 

2256b 

2ni    287  lb;  3011" 

217    15421' 

INDEX  OK  HEBREW  AM)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3461 


"TIT 

nni-oT 

rPT    3146b 

2438b 

*  .  • 

""'T 

J 

H^T    ->13b;  2156";   2818" 

"in-;T    3147!' 

DTT 

3159b 

ni2T. 

n^rriT  3147" 

rrr,T 

3155" 

ZT^T    3132" 

D^T    1120";  27S1";  2929b 

n-ny 

72  !'• 

T£T 

rVC^T    1542b 

]1T 

2525" 

"I'CT 

yiT   246b;  250  lb 

nrl    3143" 

TIT 

2108b;  2S65";  2866b 

y^T    580";  2712b;  2982b 

XT7 

3133" 

nn^rT 

y"lT    25191' 

bnT 

25(51";  2737b;273,V; 

CrT    89(>b;    1456";   2972b 

y'^T    see  y^.T 

3109" 

TJ2T    592b;  2429" 

y'iT  j 

—  -  —  - 

•^1  "r;a 

T 

_:       J1122";  250  lb 

?  ••• 

o  1  OO 

TPT    592b;  1249";  3149b; 

TIT 

54  lb;  724";  3153" 

3155b;  3156" 

«''» 

*\v  1  1    see  ^  i  i7 

PT 

17b;  3084" 

TCT    sec  T£T 

PT.7    2846b 

xp- 

3084";  3153" 

ni2T:    see  nni^T 

TIT    762";  2819b 

™T^T 

3153" 

rr^    44  lb;  2029b 

ffi-)7    3147" 

xrr 

3153" 

rnttT    see  -P'CT 

rn.T   2838b;  3079" 

r? 

3148b 

rnr-  see  r-p;r- 

N?n7   3133" 

?nT 

3152b 

^I^T   3128b;  3149b;  3150- 

nriT  3i48a 

nE^T 

3152b 

•7^2?   3149b 

T     ' 

iriT   3148" 

np^i 

2:7    2903" 

PT 

r514";   1  112b 

n:7    746b;    748b;    I339b; 

_ 

1426";     1  470b; 

y  •• 

2525b 

nh  504b 

^TT 

1122'>;2181b;2184"; 

ni:7  3132" 

nnh  i402b 

2185b 

T 

•I:T  1426" 

ran  1586" 

"n^T 

3148" 

n^T    2874b 

Xb^nn    778" 

nz" 

668" 

1 

T             -: 

11?T   3128" 

"linn    599";  1313b 

"  i 

1  17()b 

TJ?7    10(59" 

n"i"nn 

I"PZIZT 

709";    764b;    1232"; 

T                ~ 

2860";  28621' 

3?T   819" 

nnnn  i5->{\\. 

niDT 

1971b 

ClTT    1145b 

ninnl 

-<"27 

3128b;  3129" 

p"7    7(54'' 

:  |l311";  1402b 

^T 

3128b;  3129" 

nE7   242";   24()lb;   2817b 

nz.7 

522b;  1971b;  2557"; 

P7  or  pt   see  "p^T 

bnn   2179b;  2408b;  3007b 

3128";  3134' 

IP;    71";      13()b;      131"; 

382";     672";     709b; 

"CT 

2030b;2557";2701b; 

418a;923b;1287"; 

^n        724:i;981b;1344"; 

""'?T 

3140b 

2183b;  2719b 

1894";    2207".  b; 

1P.I    71" 

5?H        2422b;     2623b; 

•CT 

1106b;  19711' 

503b;  2030b;  2393"; 
2538" 

pp.7    2044";  2506b;  2545" 

IT    762"'  b 

2836b 
bnn    2408b 

bhni 

^"OT 

3149" 

bn:n7  3i47b 

.^^  ":  [2408b 

mTT 

"!")7    3132b;  3147" 

"* 

,n;n!T 

3135";  3136" 

"IT    l()97b;  1456b;  28641' 

bnh    421";   2774b;   2775" 

T     :~  : 

T  T 

r.bsnn   2623b;  2750b 

bb? 

1239b            , 

yinT 

n^san  1313" 

ns?3T 

1423" 

"•    ;,    246b;  278()".b 

pnn  ii2i" 

t~IEy  *T 

* 

pipnn  i3ii" 

, 

ny'iT 

HEbT 

3149b 

"inn    691";  724b;  942b 

msT 

745b;    747";     953"; 

rWTIT    see  yilT 

nnn    691  b;    942b;    1354b; 

1880b;     3083b; 

"^T^T   868" 

1964b;  2079" 

~. 

m£T 

31491' 

tT^7    2773b 

"inn  iio6" 

3462 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


rnanan  2846b 

nin    1419";  1441";  2972"; 

PPTn    1346b 

man  iio6" 

2974" 

nin  2974b 

l^tn    1388b;  2588b 

•p-ian    1365";  1366b 

•jr-Tn    2581";  3045b;  3057b 

t:in  niO" 

•'j'nan  } 

rrn  i892b 

m.   '  v  [1366b 

^n    128a;  1402" 

"* 

^"lan  J 

, 

TTn    491";    1339";   2875b 

rD^n    1345a 

"nan  i354b 

T<Tn    1388b 

Ban    1319";  2237";  2658b 

ran  2237" 

*"njl36";    522b;    1136"; 
bin        2207"'  b;  3007"'  b 

ptn   88a;     704b;     724b; 
747b;       1337b; 

bin    1439" 

1338"'     2558"' 

}n    1103";  1123";  1317"; 
2257";    2639"-  b; 

b'n    24  .is'-  2688b 

2569b;    2871b; 
3045b 

-"?  [     2822"                                     npin    1137";  1140" 

^Pin    1402" 

a:»n  1316";  i907b;  i9os» 

C^n    2402" 

n^prn 

xa.-n 

Tin    672";    1344'';   2779''               ?n^Tn 

'  f!316" 

naan  1 

cs^in  i44n>                             -i»i"»Tn'1'  1385a;  1402& 

j^n    587";  1103";  1105"; 

PnJ23";    1136b;    144(5'';             ir^pTn11 

2822" 

-v  —  !        1  s  1  1  ! 

-mn 

nn\512b;     513";     523b; 

"i:»n 

Tin 

340";  676";  1441b 

innJ    i-ii9a;  i-i-ii" 

"'    254" 

rrn:»n 

"in 

X"jn    321"-  b;  668";  1101b; 

nini 

1929b;     2179b; 

nnjn 

.      585" 

-inJ 

2506b 

^n  1319" 

•p-i'n  see  i'^"n  r^a 

S'Jn    H01b;  1306b 

^n  1317" 

11  "im  see  *nn 

SIpn   2179b;  2806" 

rpsn  1319" 

''Tn    676";  1442" 

TiX-jn    2639" 

n^n  i3i9» 

"Tn    1388'-;   1442" 

nXEn    1069"  ;  2020"  ;  2504b  ; 

Tjn    1313b 

=n'n    1394b;  1442" 

2  6  3  9  "  '     2  6  4  2  b  ' 

•Hn    517h 

|"}-in    1344" 

a;?n  i384b 

Tin    58C)";   1315b 

TZJin    1343" 

na^n  58  ib 

bin  H26b 

nthn  1443" 

Hian    1122";  1789";  3082b 

b-n  3iosb 

"C?n    1443" 

tDIBPI    1343b 

v""n  i3i5b 

c^r'.n  • 

sir:;n  i343b 

p~n    1366h;  2974" 

D^n    H43a 

b^n  i343b 

bp-n   1388'1;  2981"                          crn  J 

XS^'jn    1343b 

"Tin    312'>;    591b;    14.15'';                  CTZJ^n  ) 

m   97";      145b;     208b; 

1490'-;   19981' 

1443" 

sen  J 

418b;  503a;  604a; 

^Tjn    1316";  1421'' 

739";       1888"; 

Tlhn    1145b 

"J.J    f  1434";  2591'';  2708" 

1889";     1905b; 
1906";    2189"; 

r~n    731";  2140'' 

bxrn  } 

2495";     3009a; 

orvo  A  t 

TT~h 


303";  1403";  2081* ; 
2140'';  2811"; 
2982" 


1402b 
y\n    314b;  656'1;  694b 

rnn  1266" 

599a;  1040";  1266"; 
1345";  3001"; 
3049b;  3083b 

411";  1345" 
1439" 


u    ""'    13451' 

HTn  2156";2411";2581"; 
2712'' 

njn  5i7b 

nth  631b;  674a;  7831'; 
1152";  1439"; 
1447b;  2581"; 
2713" 

bxnjn  see  bxrn 
irn  i347b 

litn   2581"- b;  3057'- 
riTn    2156a;  2581" 
1347b 


1389s 

rTTl  789";  1170b;  1171"; 
1337b;  2469b; 
2471a;  2515"; 
2591s 

n^n  418b;  421b;  1888s; 
2515";  2538b; 
2558a;  2587b 

nm   I905b 

b^n  f!76";   528a;    1137"; 
,  1140s;     2930"; 

2937b 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3163 


b"*n    see   ^n 

pbh  j 

n-irn    287";     678b;    94  lb; 

b">n   382";    491";    1127a; 

tbht 

1332b;     1350b; 

1279a;     2590b; 
3005";     3045b; 
3057b;    3076" 

'ibn    1437";  2412" 

nbn  i32ib 

.    "    2556" 

nb^n  528a 

•^bn   854";  1305b;  1306"; 

Wah    1106b;  1906";  1907"; 

Db"TT] 

2783" 

2688b;  2819" 

'    "     1370" 

b^bn    2095";  2097" 

nxbnJ 

n'jan  1430" 

nb^bn  i 

t 

frn    1392" 

',,  T     1097b;  1127" 

nbbnJ 

•pan   667b 

•p3Tn    182b;  554b 

T    '      T 

ban    695";  2402" 

bbn    426";     485";     517b; 

p^n 

747b;818";2458b; 

nban  2402" 

*,_   504b;     510b;     51  la; 

3036" 

can  1324" 

1'           1839" 

pin 

bbn    2458b 

•)12n    1454b;  1533b;  2527b 

nn^n  i394b 

nbbn  see  nb^bn 

can  3051" 

DT>n 

Dbn    874";  1370" 

Can   763b;  778" 

.'    '     1394b 

tD^abn    1119b;  2596" 

fan    883b;  1122";  1306"; 

}n    2093";  2917b 

i'bn  1374" 

1832";  2469b 

H2n    1116";  1419" 

?bn  593b 

fah   3051";  3087" 

nb-gn  i3i3b 

abn  1370" 

Tan   287";   676";    1141b 

n^bin   isi3b 

fbn    1942";  2553b 

Ten   3086b 

b-^bpn  676" 

rbni 

•'  r  \  I370b 

Tan  so86b 

CZn   2813b;  3089" 

Tbn  J 

nan  see  niaq 

DZn    336a;     765b;     766a; 
783b;789b;2868a; 

fbn    1797b;  1917"'  b 
pbn    860";  2422b 

nah   667";  1350b;  1418"; 
2000";     2817b; 
3080a 

3089a;  3098a 

nasn    1124b;1541";2191"; 
2471a;     2474b; 

pbn    146Sb;  2422b 
pbn    1322" 

nan   242";    667a;   2401b; 

2817b 

3089a;  3097" 

Hprbn    1307";  2247b 

}nan  126";  i374b 

^iapn    1313b 

^pbn  i370b 

ran] 

.  -  '    1117b 

*T\   see  b"1!"! 

_,«'._. 

msan  \ 

bh    see  -^n 

'''.'  '     1370b;  1392" 

^n^pbn  J 

ttjah  2590" 

ntfbn    1369b;  2627";  2706" 

rp.bn  i370b 

TZJan   255";    1340b;   2590" 

•Vj^j44it>-  i099b-  1101b' 

npbni 

msan  see  iran 

.;_.!      1110b;    'l294a; 
1370";  1999b 

=^{1370b 

nan   509b;  2814";   3088a 

nbn    H23b;  2051b 

Cn    128";  1323b;  2069b; 
2556" 

nan  i324b 

nsbn  1370" 

Ch   68b;  1352a 

nan  see  nian 

•pnbn  1370" 

xan  see  nan 

man  94ia;  1325" 

n:nbn  ii63a 

nxani 

nxT  nsn  1326" 

Tbn   71a;   3108b 

'  :  "     1123b;  2052" 

"n    127b;  1102";  1292- 

/ 

T 

1374b 

I5n    1370a 

Tan    433";   82()»;    1941b; 

"bh    1106b;1906";  19()7b; 

-       T 

1942" 

"i":n  i374b 

2074";  3076b                        "~?n    §32b;  2534b;   3()74a 

n:n  2948b 

n^bn    1439" 

l^an    1374b 

nsn    136b;  1336" 

•nbn  1370" 

nani 

!p:n    953";    1336";   1374b 

^2415b;  2418" 

nbn   578";    854";    1305b; 

v>",*>  ^ 
^   —  .  i    \  ' 

p:n    1336b 

1306a;     1468a; 

npn  3oib 

n^i:n  536" 

1675b;      2207a'b; 

T 

2783a 

bSTT2n    1326s 

t::n  940" 

nbn  si7R 

'""^Tn  i 

b^an  1336" 

oibni 

,^"';    1332b 

,  ~-    874" 

-t 

"" 

cbni 

plan  1452" 

}:n  3005" 

3404 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


S3^n    1617'- 

}T2n   820";    1343";  3096'' 

bir^irj  n^n  1347" 

n3:n  si6b;  1951-;  1952-; 

]*En    27b;     82()h;     2408b; 

pn    see  p"1!! 

1953" 

2811'' 

. 

=271    1145-;!  171-;2156b; 
3063" 

nn'^sn  1375- 

"ISn    2074-  ;  2293- 

pn    706";    760b;     883b; 
1852".  b;   2016"; 
2201" 

5io?:n  i332>> 

12n    267-;  700'' 

npn  58ib 

xr:n  in,-'" 

~!En    1375- 

~i>n    769b;  2201" 

"n    1292h;  1490'-;2035b; 
2402- 

'7En    1375- 

XS^ipn    1321'' 

]pn    137";   1333- 

"I^Sn    133(i'- 

pp.n    1280b;1858b;2156b; 

2702";     2743"; 

^Xr.n    1333" 

ir?n  1389" 

3110" 

%:n  1333" 

1^1''  i'2711'' 

Ppn    2710" 

rr::n 

^  ~:  r!29-;    1333" 

}'n    252-;    780b;     1203'-; 

ppn  i 

1370h;   1430" 

ppinJ 

T  :          : 

2746h 

l    1 

c:n  133.V' 

"ipn    2710" 

}  n    see  "f*" 

?:n    81S-;  1270-;  1445-'b; 

•»"—  i 

^pn    2710" 

3036- 

;/   k.385-;  2007- 

—  r.1-[    91  rub 

~n  see  *nn 

•  tw-  _ 

n;..J.    r  ,  ,  -,, 

"in    see  ~^n 

p:n    11  07-;  2866- 

liU          I.Hi 

\ 

.       -    T 

"r:n  1336- 

r.p-n  n;3:n  1347'- 

XW        .;,,- 
i\see    i    j-i 

""" 

"Cn    1934- 

rirn  2050- 

"Cn    747-;  1278";  1279-; 

"?n    2050-  ;  207S'- 

Zrn    252b;    341  b;    1815'-; 
2012'' 

1202";     1781'-; 

^"n'T^n  *^sn  ' 

1799";     1934-b; 

!      T  1343h 

2-n    8  15-;  833- 

2035'-;     2402-; 

•  ':    =   f  '-              '-! 

2-}H    1352" 

2555" 

l^n    1122-;  1203";  1375"; 

rs-in  83ib 

rp-cn  1342- 

1  S(>  1 

«.i 

ncn  1424- 

]^n    5()4b;   1S30- 

"  T.      !"  U337'- 

"PCn    1002";  1270";  142s-  ; 

"?n    246'1;    1830-'' 

nrnnn  J 

1527b;     1540'-; 

'  ]^n    3S2-;   1203b 

53"in    425";    745''  ;    1473": 

2044";     265S1-; 

..rn    j.,^.,,, 

1007b;  1908- 

26591';  266  11' 

«'/»''  • 

-rn    1145" 

rrrvn  2sti3-  b 

\    1317-  b 

r~-n    577b;  1337- 

b^Cn    583";  1473";   1907'-; 

-,- 

•^-rn  i340b 

L908b 

rPjT^n    305-  ;   11  03-;  2005"; 

ben    1907b;  190S'- 

2007- 

n^n    669'-;    1145b;   1306- 

nan 

"?n-lPI    1339" 

2Cn   2102" 

•wsn 

"Cn    2422'1 

l*Vh'"1   1346b 

'u'   ''    2140" 

ICn    2590b;  3007'-;  3008- 

_. 

S      T 

"^n    725-;   1346'';  2ss'.t-; 

••    -    —                                  --  —  ._        _-  -  _ 

"^*^  ^       1  '  i  '  ~:i 

t    set'    |  i  i  n  t  •  i  MI 

»,  w  (__       Ut  )  / 

2032b;     2933s; 

ICn    439'-;   1S21- 

3001";  3040b 

rr^.n  i34ib 

nncn    1312b 

^"S'nsn  i346b 

^E^n    1341'- 

.^Dn    S()(,h 

"~5  *i?n  1347" 

T""  '.1111-;  1274";  1341b: 

rn  1471- 

};i3-'pn  i?n  1347- 

•jr^.nl      1967b;  2976" 

riEn    587";  669'- 

n-iarn  i3ssb 

"'"n-n    1339" 

HEn    ")(>()";     591'-;     tHi9b; 

li"l?n    1388'-;  1703-  •'• 

cn-;,n  1339" 

1441b;   1998b 

""l^n    1388'- 

irnn  nosb 

I^TSn    1343" 

rinsn  1347'-;  isn- 

•jnn  3119- 

n^sn  144  11- 

'   •„ 

a^nsn  34ob;  1347-;  i700» 

V\n    2297'- 

'EH    1334'- 

nTonsn   1.347- 

t2"in    see   u^^n 

%5n  1421- 

no"D  nrn  1347- 

Cbin    1568";  3125'- 

r?n  1344'- 

ipy  "i?n  13461- 

inn  see  inn 

IXDKX  OF  IIKBRKW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3465 


"Hn  1  128";  1421b;  2154"; 

TT10    1370" 

rppn  2949b 

•ninJ    29"4h                            tnn  8ii« 

5rn    2874" 

u^ni                                                         Tlhh    1132";  1507|J-  27S1- 

n?rn  2874" 

1    377b;  748'1 

BinJ                                     irnn  i42ib 

plpn    1384b 

.i^ini                                       tnn  sso-b;      i968b; 

arn    427";     430";    943"; 

.Spj^J8'                                                                   31  Oa1' 

2708" 

T-'-T!  i339b                               »i?hn  i34ia                                arn  see  Eirn 

•p-im                                                     ITttnn    594";   1909"                                   fan    66";    16741-;    2525"; 

*  H  1  ''3'"  l'{  1  1  "  •  '">0  •">'>" 

•pnl                                    r'¥"in  5«i";  ~(>(»h;  I:MI:I 

2556" 

TZPnn    886b;   1307" 

rnn  1339";  1377" 

nnn  849" 

"'TITin    3()46b 

at;n    765b;     766";    840"; 

nr.n    15";     523";     594"; 

940";     lOOo1-; 

Spn    1437" 

1127b;     1456";                   "^n    1343b 

bin    sec  5'l,n 

1462b;     2813b; 

Gin    1117b;  1132";  1341" 

2972b;     2975" 

<Q 

ZTL'n    767" 

Q^n    15b;34b;  130";767b;                       V 

a-j  mob 

816b;840";  1050b;             njiaiDn    1342" 

1256"                           nacn  i342b 

'-xn::  2887b 

B1PJ    1115";  1421b                            p3^n    1384" 

5Sa'J    2887b 

Bin    1339";  2553"                          rmttJn  1 

3ia'J    883b 

npnn  1422" 

^:  '.  ":    1342" 

nai:  4i8b 

lir-n  1378" 

n:arn  1342" 

nap    418b;  2924" 

...,__   i-.-s 

nai:  i307b 

"      ~     i»        iOlo 

n^:a^n  1342" 

TZJ^in    2784a 

"nili,n  09()3,, 

nna-j  ni8b 

'in    1337" 

a'irn  i342b 

rnau  2980" 

""^n  sec  "i^n 

a^irn  see  a^irj^n 

53V    «51" 

^nh    1423" 

'•fen  H26b 

in^5at3    2924" 

a^:'in  1423" 

•fCn   789";  2177b 

ya"J    2594";  2743b 

™»  •*  -  -^  "•"'       i  o  |  j  i. 

ri"2"J    2887" 

V    V        I    -             J"«U    ' 

Trirn  2016" 

c^n  30!b,;(  1452b;    (5(ir)1>;              c^'n  i342b 

rray  2594";  2708" 

0  •.••••        1341";      1376b; 

liTSia's?    2902" 

nCin        1491";      2193";                    =^n    see  BTtJin 

*?  W  •"*  P  a, 

nay  54  ib;  2924" 

Oin    1543";  2423b;  2425b                   r-^n    5S4;1 

ra-j  2887b 

|    1  0  ~r  1  '                                                                                         ^   i     v                 ' 

!   Ml087b;  2506b 

brt;n    927b;  2044";  2859"; 

1  ^ 

T^n    485b;   819";    2525b;                                  2860" 

•nrrj  i235b 

'i'CTZJn    2454b 

"inp    667"-  b;  668";  2506b 

Tin    271()b;  2982b;  3089"               -,.J,tin    i 
n.TaTon    1342" 

ail3    441b;     511";    600b; 

5in    1339" 

fin    834";   1917" 

It'n    517b;    518";    1060"; 
2442";  3041" 

1110b;      1277"; 
1278b;      1279"; 

1799";  2990"'  b 

fin    sec  f^~!n 

nten    58  1";   852" 

-.     T                                                          T 

a"B    1087b;  1277"-b; 

la^in  382" 

PTSni 

1110" 

1279" 

fin    see  f  nin 

pien  J 

^n*:ns  ait:  2990- 

•?in    1793b;  3050" 
Pin    1239'1 

S<St;n    see  SCE^TUn 
TCffin    578";    588b;    1293'1 

n^ait:  i 

''  .       2924";  2990"  -h 

"inn    2247b;  300  11'                              "Tlt'n    1443" 

nrj  2841" 

'^~n    887b                                                m    1384b;  1395b 

n"J    2408" 

TCin    1421b;1456";2007!i;                   nm    1113";   I3501' 

nS'jitJ    1  147";  23921';  2393" 

2293b;     2409";                  v-ll          _, 

2813b;     302  7b; 

"l^u    J3921' 

3105b;  3119"                              ^Pn    1395b 

nnt:  i490b 

3466 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


1307" 
940b 

^J  667";  2000" 

bE  840b;  2257" 

Sb-j  671";    674b;    28461' 

D^SbE  1898";     2925" 

nbE  1898" 

DbE  2925" •  '' 

"jiEbE  29041' 

SEE  818";  3035b 

nSEE  1110b;  303  5b 

•EE  1389" 

SIE  412b;  413" 

n?E  748";  2712" 

C?E  2917b 

D"E  65";     4201';     2534b; 
2917b 

CTE  593b;  2917h;    3089" 

n?E  2874" 

n?E  1334b;  3079" 

nEE  1334b 

PISE  2874a 

bEE  11321' 

IDEE  569";   2000";  3123" 

BEE  2055b;  2909" 

1EE  2111" 

"HE  2S36b 

r^E  2533b 

CHE  186 lb;  2439a 

IE  25331' 

IE  2914" 


see    ~S~ 
1546" 

1559" 

1559";  2450" 
1124b 

208b;  523b;  524" •'• 
552a  b;  1120" 
2089b;  21451' 
2211a;  2595" 
2867" 


1573a 

1573" 
1446" 
1547" 

r^r  see  TCa^ 

ba1^.   522h;  769b;  2867" 

x—"1    see   xa^"1 


1)    2488b 


52P    3082" 

arba1?  14 16" 

Ca^    1442b 
526" 

:a^  1547" 

:a^    1547" 


?:ai  i446a 

pa]    1546b 
1573" 


700b:  1546b 


1446b 

bs:o  1448" 

a.V    14421' 

nnaro  K>95" 

1448" 

•i:P    1305b;  1306";  2836b 
"I^,:P    1558a 


PT 


an- 


•>?:^    1695" 
?:P    1086b 

nip  "i:P    1163";  1229h;  1350b; 
1574a 

17  504";  511";  523b; 
741a;769";1333b; 
1334";  1864b; 
2235";  2293"; 
2742b;  2836b; 
2947* 

nb^l"!    1447" 
TlilTp.    14471' 

n-"1    699";  2429";  29041'; 
2965b 


see    i~ . 

110b 

1573b 

1574" 

1573b 

1573b 

1677a 

65";  588b;  696a; 
766";  851";  852"; 
944b;  1094b; 
1105";  1130"; 
1557";  2073"; 
2581b;  2702b; 
2813b;  292  lb 

588b 

1573b 

690" 

1919";  1969b;  2230" 

173b;   1232b;   1248a 

820b 

1558b 

15S4b 

157  I1' 

1575b 

1586" 

1757b;175Sa;1763a; 
1765a 

1586";  1675";  1778b 
1675";  1778b 

125()";1267b;1535a; 
1919a;  2056a; 
26()lb;  2961a 

1583b 
1584" 


1572b 
2412" 


.-. 

\  M 


1447b;  1551 

1557b 
1557a 


-XT  "in11 


2150  n-.np  i5S4a 

mst?  mni  i5S4a 

latin1;  i5S4a 

•]:n;nO  1577b;  1743b 

yi^in-J  1569b;  1578a 

V-^in1;  1577" 

C^p^in1)  1578";  1743b 


*3^  1586a 

ailing  i580a 

•jnpn1;    1580b;  1730a-b 
1574b 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3467 




u       .^i 

,u^n,    1,?4a 

"iTi!?'ir"r  i.)741' 

=£^LE:!.     1  1730";  2-188b;  2830b 

„_.,;._.,    1.--11, 

"nK~~    j 

""H7    789b;  833|J 

1  '•  -  '    • 

•JP:^    1730"  b 

_._..      --  ,„ 

""SirP    15841' 

(I'M        1  1  )  I  t 

Znin")    1580b;  1730'> 

COi"1    1736b;   1737- 

bn^  iii9b 

;3iprp  1583" 

rT^ECT1    1753b 

bsbn^    1558b;  1573b 

ri-S"!"1    1695" 

•^bsbrr:  i558b 

"ntnm  i5sib 

. 

-    :      -             : 

-J"P    1688a 

•*?*CXr   S  1  7  "-  b  ;      2  5  9  7  a  ; 

ITltiJVPJ  1424";  15X3b;1624"; 

TSl''^     1t',7i)>> 

3000";  3155b 

ytrrpJ    u;2G";  i"43-  '• 

p-jTP    15S4b 

^n^    155Sb 

JErirP    1431";15Slb;15S2";                  _^    _„., 

bxsrr  i558b 

15S3-;  27591' 

^  >\>  \>     1  /  ^  / 

n"}T    2525b;  29S2b 

•^bs^n^  i559a 

Z'brP    2856b;       2857"; 
2862"'  b 

rr\^  1732" 

"1")i>1    1732" 

bsp?n^  i558b 
rn^  ii83b 

VTPJ 

DTP    1580b;  1732";  1736b 

ton]  ii83b 

1  1558a 

-cn  nTirn  i7sib 

rrr  1558" 

nsi"1    1677" 

n^TBl"1    1743" 

2'^   435b;  1276b;  1277a; 
2813b;  3011" 

nS"P    167S";   1695-                               nTET    1743" 

nn-J^    1754" 

Tnxi"1  1678"                             rp^ici11  1743- 

nrotp"1  i754a 

bSTP    144S-;   16SS">b                          'JETTi"1    1743" 

'  nii"1 

TEXT  1 

zr,r  1754" 

I.^X    178Sb 

J  .    [1575b;  1679- 

\ 

n^-i 

11^7    1544b;  1675a 

nT  i49i"                               rrr  i545b 

•p   879b;  1896b;  3086a; 

inr    1688"                                               TP    1572b 

3088a 

'S'"1"1  1  1422";  1546b;  1756";               r^bp.    1545b 

!p_    1334a 

bn^J    ^i(*<)!l                            ni:pi 

^^*^^     SGG     x  » 

"'  |1675h 

1 

b^"1    2867-;  3074b 

n^iD1^  see  n1;:?^ 

5^1    1756" 

TT^   28741' 

n^    170b;     241";     799a; 

\. 

T1         -     -1> 

2018b;     2408b; 

'?,       l'^-r)> 

n~T.    1545 

2534b;     2535a; 

nppi    1756" 

nvnr.  I545b 

2560b 

sni->  1695- 

bs>~!r  9^;^a;  i'i77" 

n^n?":    see  n^?7 

•jini'1    1695b;  1730a 

•'bxr^r  1677" 

•j^P^    1547b 

riyl"1    see  "rp"1 

r^bs"-r  1677- 

,  r    *    328a 

yj^V    1727- 

rarn  i586a 

xlP? 

rrp^p  1727- 

-7i^    3037b 

n???1  ' 

n"11nt','1    1580";  1727" 

^"n^i 

w;b^  i573b 

-Dpi"1    1688" 

'  "'  -[1558b 

n^b*1^*1 

"D^"1    1586"                                      Uv..^—,-,    iccoh 

n"1^"1 

x^^ini;    Ioo8b 

T  :   i    i 

D5!"1    71-;     705-  ;     777-; 
797b;798a;799a-b; 

".n^n^  1574" 

in^D"?  •1577a 

1389b;     2049"; 

bsnm  see  b^n^ 

'    t?  T  i 

1ST1  3077";       ^  »» 

-!b-i    418";     426b;    522b; 
821";       1183b; 

IT    1572- 

n-:T  i580a 

n^tn^  1559" 

btfpTrp    1071";   1574" 

2034";     2050"; 
2295";  3007" 
Tr   512b;  606b;  1317" 

njr    871";   1727b;    1730- 

:  r!574b 

mb?  1232" 

n:i^  2395a 

^irpp'rp  J 

T    : 

^:T    1572" 

nnjn:  1559- 

•jib?    1559b 

T 

•_,,_. 

"I^i    1418";  2815a 

pll"1   2947" 

'"       •  1  1  CT/I   •   1  "urb 

* 

rp:^    513b;  2947a 

bson-;  I 

tp"1    1121b;  1221a;  1248s 

3468 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


r.E3? 

2701" 

^W] 

jS?    1968" 

"  fl 

54(i";    1572" 

pi: 

553b;    583";    1473"; 

iiy?  ' 

in^    1.545b;  2  18  11' 

1907b;  1908" 

•jy-i   7 

04" 

•'in^1'    1545b 

=? 

128";  1547";  2026"; 
2037";     2145": 

bs-'y?    1574";    I.5SH1- 

?1S?    422";  591b;  2863" 

:tl™l>  ^:5S'1; 

^."iy"'  s 

~(~  ^y". 

priS"1    1493";    1843" 

3082" 

'iL^y  i 

675" 

•Tir    3154" 

—^ 

• 

*y  2 

SS1' 

yi?    see  ??2:? 

ta-  _] 

128"  ;  „().!') 

T 

bjM*T 

15861' 

br?  705" 

p??    1337" 

nr*: 

1586b 

b??    592b;  817"-b;  1249"; 
15571';      1.5591': 

"12?    145";  1098";  1968"-"; 
2425";  2864" 

TO 

128";  1333h;  15671'; 

3156" 

"12?.    1144";  1456";  Ki76" 

18(i5b;     2591"; 

, 

283S" 

W  L~~  f<S 

17"'b;  1249";  1545" 

"12?    2030" 

i;^? 

1568";  2715" 

n*y^  J 

i")2?    1545";  1676" 

S'T^ 

i 

cbyi  i 

559" 

np?    3086" 

nbr^ 

1456b 

n?<?  i 

548b;2203";2205b; 

bXilp^    1586" 

T  r  - 

2697";  3084b 

"If??    1357" 

=!•-.''?? 

1568" 

•  ^        1 

CRQa 

^ 

. 

=?"p?    1727" 

S 

1461b 
1466" 

???    65";  l()86b;  1121" 

7??    64b;    70  lb;     1141"; 
1308b 

np?    1559" 
bST.'P?    1586" 

rr:? 

1 

spy?  i 

549";   1556" 

"yP?    1727b 

nrnr 

f!568b 

TCpyi    1545";   1549" 

^^P?    1559" 

---- 

see  Z"1*^ 

IP??   435";   1547";   1559"                n^-    1;38b° 

nr 

97b 

"1??    1132";1377";151.V'; 

Zyrp?    1586" 

T 

1812";  3001" 

Zytlp?    1727" 

a"1*? 

1 

1568a-b 

rny?  1569" 

zyrp"1  1727" 

.,... 

i 

T    :  1:  T 

z^'t^s?  ^"57?  i 

545" 

1rp_?    340b 

ps? 

513b;  2947" 

•\ 

D^iy?    1572";  2197" 

1p?    1235b;  2434b 

DTO2? 

"?t;7.y?    1546" 

np^  i4isb 

CnU?*^ 

j        >  , 

-ni 

TOy?    1546" 

TIJp?    1143" 

-  * 

,     30,  ' 

bSTO?:?    1546";   1571" 

]T»P?    1727b 

lie? 

411" 

n^pi  i4ui" 

bsrp?    1586b;  1727b 

H2Ci 

1508b 

-E?    1087";    1568" 

l?r£?n 

151  lb 
1150b;  2116";  2459" 

HE?    1087";   1278" 

X"^?    see  (TV 

SI?    1102";2156";2587b; 
2949b 

n?? 

2545b 

."'    1731" 

~S~|i    1102a 

?: 

2780b 

HE?    518a 

]^"1?    1492b 

ysy? 

1547" 

y^E?    1569" 

n^S-J1:    1492" 

"?: 

706" 

T2bE?    1569" 

n-P    1569b 

^ 

| 
see  V0 

TObE?    1569" 

b??n?    1227";  1595a 

"?: 

2780b 

y?;>  2773" 

rttj|n?  i.595a 

bitty? 

1675" 

r.B^    1568" 

"!"1?    831b;    1221";  1248a 

V^  5?^ 

1675" 

HPE1    1491a;  1587";  1677" 

T??    1570";  1587b 

*^57^ 

1546";   1.559-'1 

bs-npsi  i 

191a 

I17!"??    660";    1732";  1765" 

*^^5/  ^ 

J 
1675" 

Stir?    1049b;1107b;1221"; 
1248";   1542b; 

T^|l852b;  2921" 

1603";  3081b; 

IT 

?$^yi 

1546a 

3128" 

bx^n?  i595b 

^t"i^T!?^ 

1546a 

^??    588b 

nini  i570a 

1NDKX  OF  ILKMKKW   AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3169 


xim"1  1 

"•H  ^nir"1 

1113?    1  570";  1623";  2027b; 

1     1622" 

muiT1  > 

'    150X1' 

2591";  2861" 

r. 

:                   i 

b&OiU'1    1G23" 

nbiuiii  \ 

naiiJ7  i508b 

T    • 

~  *.      !    1596"'  1966"'  2078b- 

nbtf  11131    1622" 

0^511311^    •        no  0*3 

"'311J?    1571" 

T                 .             1 

•  -  •_      !        266.-!  ' 

•niHP    1623" 

DbllJIli 

~nb  "^ziiij"1  1 

^  • 

'       : 

\T     1;")71" 

13Tl?il?n    15411' 
" 

ni7    303";    15S7";  20S1"; 

rnp  i2ir'1  - 

2982b 
HI?   303";  2081" 

2^3113?    1570" 
pail37    1508'- 

"P?    21  11";  2207";  2399"; 
2743";    2780b; 
284  7b;  307  7b 

TH?    sec  TP")? 

nil3p5il3>    1743" 

Din?    1101";  2202" 

arh?  1595" 

1  31113^  1 

"fin?    2530" 

bx^ni")  i587b 

.'  |1  191";  1571" 

lip?    1050";   1571" 

yni7  i570:v 

rniiji  i5ii" 

nbpi    1543b;  1674" 

biri?  1592b 

n^nitj^  i622b 

-TprP    1543b 

311?    1570" 

^W.    1508b;   1511" 

bxirp?  i57ib 

•>3  "1  ,    Io92" 

yi11J7    1G22'1;      1743a-b; 

IP?    7b;  2557"'  b 

'  *    '    1592a 

1749" 

1PP    709b;  1050";  1674"; 

irPT, 

prrp  i493b 

2557b;  3098b 

irpT1 

'ITIJII 

SIP"1    1543b 

irn?  i592a 

."  '    1509";  1623" 

nipi    17b;  2590b 

nrri? 

3^T1J?    see  311ZT 

ilPP.    1674" 

PI^II?  • 

n^iB*1! 

•pIPP    896b;  1050a 

nift"1!?  i59ia 

T  •'.  •    1542b 

irP'jj111  1 

ilpi    1543b 

P1T21? 

bX'C"'^"1    1()23" 

•jirP    1543b 

nyil.7    767b;  2889b 

'|i^'1113':    83  lb;  1622"'b 

D21P?    1543b;  1593a 

ni:pi?  1593" 

nittntji'    soe  rlTZ-'lS-'n  7P3 

PP?    1674" 

•p?    411";  492";  1917".  b; 

. 

UJ^UJ"1    130b 

hk 

Z/  10   ,   ^Jt- 

.' 

X3"P    2785";   2972b; 

^UJ^IlJ^    1622b 

3X3   2207"'  b 

ilSI"1    503b 

"IT"    1509" 

T 

7    ••  : 

3X3    1306";  2207"-  b 

pitti?  1570" 

Xpt"1    1509" 

f!7b;     522b;      595"; 

PICT,  «cc  niTa"li7 

bx^tT    1509" 

1236b;     1239"; 

"|1aT  I587b 

•'bxy'52113'111    1510b 

-133        1294";     1306b; 

r      : 

'<      1337b;     1338"; 

'  ^  :   ^    1587b;  1588";  2529" 

'    1510b 

"?        1354"'b;    1418b; 
1905b;    2154a; 

T    :      :  • 

i   ;    -     : 

I     2818a 

21?    1306" 

•'"'ciir  i5iob 

133    1306b 

bSE"P    1492b 

"J113?    282b;   1570";  2817" 

"133    see  "133 

pi?    2846" 

ITS?    443b;   1507b;   2761" 

P"33    1354b 

pi?    1293" 

n:i!37    1622";  2761" 

"^  H235b;  1236b;  1253b; 

•|lp17    see  Ppl.O  ^ 

211T   340";  820b;    1424"; 

laSj      141Sb;  1906" 

ppn?.  205ib 

DypT    1736b 

2700" 
^'Ip-1    1509" 

ni^as    580b;  2850" 

(    *  T 

. 

b?aa  536a 

t31?l  1369";  2420"  ;2422b; 
<fi^l     2426b;  2868b 

Hl495b;   1(522" 

•jias  536a 

n^l"1    1468b 

-DT13"1   2856b;2857";  2860b; 

033    1148";  3072b 

T      \     1 

IB"!    224" 

2862b 

133    599a 

3113?    9";     1468";    2743b; 

nsp"1.  i5ii" 

H133    3076" 

2813b 

1113?    2406b 

H133    2976" 

3X31137    1622" 

ni'1"1    1622" 

TCaa    1126";  121  5b;  1822b 

naf  a  3113''  1743" 

1113"1    2027b;  2591" 

7111333    1822b 

3472 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 

b-?bl 


T25    9121' 

lib    1821";   2102b 
Xtpb    110Gh;  1906";  1907" 


*9  f  1336" 

ibj 

^|)798.;,«5«.;al45.;                  ™»  }486l;  490>;  2846' 

•aib  i 

^I'—i*                                                      n'aiS'a    1101";  2156b 

,    K934" 

f  -^  ; 

^a*  ' 

n^b^i    369";  220ti";  2697" 

msp  , 

T)5    1935" 

•nib  i 

1C"?    1821";       1822  "  ; 
1895"-";  1S96" 

.     r  ^1890b 

^  .^  \  1935" 

t^pb    1820" 

•"^T  • 

.  .- 

nxbb  1919"                            niixtt  ^  829b 

mb    741";  18G5b;  186S1' 

"p::    2581b;  2X13'-;  2921"                    ..vi^    o-nh 
n?    100"-";  1942";  234S"                 ,          ^                                                          Ms«    3/9b 

^1  491";  2-108";  2898";                 C^u  }  18Gr)l>                                            n-S^    see  HXP 

nbt    2900b;  2901"                      ";•                                    nbzxp  isi5b 

"     V. 

TfT22    1823" 

rrwb  i 

.'   ,     1935b 

"                                                      P53X'/2    1147" 
3"p    831";  1843";  2072"; 

run?  J 

2703" 

"psp    1127a 

EJrrb  H23" 

}?b    2703" 

^pNp    1260";  Ki99» 

"il'b     '?07'>b 

1213    733";  1929b 

•^<  •*    *^\/  /  -^ 

nxp    1145b;   1868" 

•j^ib  193  11- 

nnyb  1819" 

"*lX7^        •<!  »P      ^™  ^^ 
l^^  '—        O*_L-           l    •*>    — 

]""'?    1821" 

''I?    1868b 

ms^  iioh 

5"i:?b    1167";  3109";  3110" 

^^1>    1 

n*^i^^  T(>7a 

^  V    2446b 

TlS??l514a.   11121.;  1S25"; 

* 

.. 

HE'-;  J      2999" 

nnxp    see  TiXp 

"n^b    309";  lS(i8b 

ni^jjb  1839" 

Xiap    1273";  3082" 

'  ,  |1307b;  1910a;  2094b                   ]^b   2703" 

biaa  ii20a 

^?                                                           71bb    2703" 

rap  308i" 

fib    115";  831b;   2072";                   ^    1822h 

nnnp  2045" 

2703"                                              '  ' 

ninb  seen^b                         n^  ^>  11()7h 

n'Jinp    700";  1419" 

nb  3098" 
nb  2122" 

npb    866b;  10S7" 
"Tlpb    1893" 

n:?p  iu4b 

^np   2016b 

•JJ?2    1234" 

T  :  •  111  06b  ;  1  1  36"  ;  1137" 

n*    see  n^2 

•"i\*iv>  i      1140"'"'  <-'04r)b 

pp2    1839";   1907" 

1  VTT  " 

'}m»                             ^  1293" 

n^p  1148" 

2^'                                                            "ITC3    1145" 

=U35^    2045b 

•^nb    600";  1572"                                .;-,'•-  ^ 

nbiilap  494b 

•    348";     416b;    474"; 

an5    514b;  1118b;  1122";                      ^5  L      1()43a      299_,, 

T»p    see  !^p  31 

2767"                                         '../        3()7Sb 

Ural's  1962" 

Dnb    see  u^n*                                      T  .,:  ' 

.  ' 

TO  nb  i82ib 

rOt!5    591b;  1308b;  1470"; 

2717" 

'..'    _    !l340a;  2027b 

opnb  i82i" 
fnb  2198" 

2tpb    1840";2S56";2857"; 
2859";  2S60" 
7TZJb    2814" 

2il:»p  J355b.  2003";  2050b' 
b^I     2222";  2501" 

liJnb    862";    942";    ,9(U";                    ^ 
2594b 

bx^jp    1962" 

irnb    126";    8S7-;    1964";                     ^    1S(1S"'  :i(1S°" 

b~.'p    1137";  1544";  1603"; 
,*       .       1610b-     1962"' 

2199" 

n?^-^        3000" 

JTpb    1132b;3027b 


1294"  ;  1780";  2839b; 
3048b 


J1325-  1440*;  2013" 


2050b 
1965b 


INDEX  OK  HKBKEW  AM)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


-239811 


iTtttt    405" 

"H.'p    1965b;  2255b 

IT:^  34  ib 

b$tt    2784" 

Ipp    555";    890";    1006"; 
1825";     2507b; 
2597"'b;     2628b; 
2910";  3058" 
Wtt    820b 


'  1343";  2534' 

~inp 

btfbbntt  \ww< 

P?S~tt  2456" 

"inp  9llb;  1102";  131:',' 

"inp  sec  -p-tt 

intt  8(i3b;  872b;  19971' 
19661' 


73  ran"  J19G7a;  -4;W;1 

aXTC    181()b;     2069  "• b 
2207" 


3473 


"  ! 1273"; 2093b;  2205"; 
3()47b;  30X1'- 


1338";  2xr,l< 

Itt    11121' 
^     1351b 

12  i  1  2  3  1  '•  ;    1352": 


J*  I 

L'.)^";   2o3";   2026"; 

. 

T                  ,--11''        j      ^\/(T_         ,       -<'J.)O 

~PP 

2701"-  b;  2789" 

^ax-raj 

niirj 

nEStt 

2402";  2808'- 

n^DXlT^  >20()9h-  ')07'-)b 
'  '  '  •      1 

"      -         ™           -w  ,  ~ 

r2976" 

rr.va 

34  lb 

r'L'       ) 

.•'1T2  J 

•p-tttt 

2051" 

~X1^2    sec  ~*"C 

nn:-a  i 

i?:?p 

669b;  2976" 

"\      1810b 

nibJ1  9""ll'-"J"'J 

TE 

1 

>    lU 

nii)2    see  K"lil2 

""5 

J251";   2016";  2850" 

py^TQ    1799";  18  10'- 

n^;r  i 

83  lb;   2707";  283X" 

•J1E    402";  3126b 

'^  .    [2082b 

"ntt 

2016";  20441' 

n-^lE    3S2";  1354";  2X50"; 

noj-iia  i4osb 

3126b 

.  . 

mtt 

20  16";  2045-2545"  ; 

»        , 

P3  P  Tin  TO    2082" 

2850";     2918"; 

1 

"'PTZJlilG    2081b 

2994";  3010b 

blT2 

an™?^ 

1275" 

v    .      K>5(ib;   1127'- 

•i;?1a  1105" 

jij? 

1901b 

bpj 

*       }l313a 

n^-ip 

•239Sb 

rnbiE  2073b 

ic'ir  i 

"O"1'? 

n"b^    1542b;   1799" 

^  /[2094b 

"^TQ 

611";  1337";  1961b; 

&  ^  , 

2018" 

nb^E  656b 

nsTpiE  3i4b 

r,~v 

514a;  2049" 

T'bi'a    48(>b;  2075b 

Pitt    408";     764b;    800b; 

]^P 

2049" 

c^rn  see  cisp 

848b 

ip-p 

896b;    1008b;  2485b 

|ZpiE    see  f^p 

J801";  811";  2746" 

ir~ia 

514";  2049"  b 

n-C1T2    13071' 

Pjtt 

-O^E 

2083" 

iciri 

15?  Pitt    2102";  248X>>;  2X31" 

]B-E 

1961b 

nipTn  ^2083b;  3127" 

"Ipitt    2437" 

..-_., 

882b>  19(ilb 

-'-,-' 

rnTTC    106b;    110b;    1522b; 

' 

,V    J 

1534" 

?E~p 

1961b 

IC'E    598b;     599";     722b; 

5Ttt    30S6b 

I"1? 

2016b 

852";  8()i;b;  2535" 

n-7E    2069b 

yib 

see  y~'T2 

.'      "    2083b 

nnttt  1 

PlTvE  J 

126b;  128" 

"0~P 

see  n^1"IE 

nrttt  •' 

^*E 

687";  2050";  2184" 

|303b;    701";    1103"; 

T^r/?    2538" 

{riE 

1325b 

~5?)2  I     2822"'    2  8  8  7  b  • 

"btv>  i 

'npj 

_n«i^        28881- 

';;:   '    1119b;  1419" 

n^bra  J 

~M 

381b;  1438b;  1439" 

P?S^1 

r.b-Ttt    312b;  313".'';  2407b 

n^J 

Pyp"11?  V20331' 

rffiTtt    1880b;  3097" 

p^np 

852" 

p??sj 

li^TE    2487" 

pinE 

2028" 

P5iE  I 

ni^TE    1419a 

^   .      206311;  2789";3104b 

r  ••  :    - 

PT^p 

2028" 

nil27E    2820" 

3474 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


n^TP    1097b;  2970" 

rrnri 

a'85ia>i 

''TT:  r  ,12083" 

rrrp   313b;  2155b 

2^-npJ 

niX?p  >1306";  2207";  2836b 

m-T-C    310";     311";     312b; 

n3rffin'a|76Qa.   757^.   S40a. 

m's-^J 

313";  314" 

r.nttJn'c  j'    297">a 

"I13ZP    17b 

rnpp    888b;  3082a 

r,np  i900b 

X!S;P    1959b 

p"Y!"D    51  lb 

HP.np    587b;  1113";  2237a; 

"122;p    19591' 

na  i999b 

2820" 

"ISS'O    1293'' 

Snp    G05b 

X'JX^P    2970" 

',_ 

nnnp  5i5b;  2237- 

nl£ir    ">13b;  1185b;  259(5b; 

"    2402";  283(5'' 

nnp    15";  490b;  1999b 

™;  ™--  ^ 

niiir 

nr^np  094" 

'  M10b;  201  Ob;  2028b 

nnp  i344b 

Ht2p    422".  b;  472b;    530"; 
1905b 

niDpj 

•>Zp    1959b 

,     *'     r    2028" 

bx^np  J 

b-'tpp    402" 

"l^p    1959b 

D^np  1907" 

ram  Uoo7b 

'  "'  -II,  ,    2757b 

bin^  i9G7a 

'  .;.   [ 

'.,'r  " 

• 

iP  v  yj 

bibzp  i279b 

nb^.np  see  nbinp  b^s 

=!!^i7";i 

bb?p    2321a 

«  ^np    2581a 

nnji?  yP  j 

•]p;P    3007b 

-nsrTrra  19G7" 

r.riE^Tp    3047" 

c^-^^ 

x-rnp  2028" 

T^p    2525b 

TUpDp  12048s 

rPnp    2515"-b;  2587b 

X^tDT  1 

' 

*  ' 

"    1980";  2405" 

i_  iC_  12  J 

"Pnp    1153b;  2028" 

^nr^r  1 

n?n^  1  1408";  1965b;  1907"; 

T&1S    2008" 

1  v.      [ins8 

nbnp  J    2783" 

^Ty"?    2008" 

V    ~" 

T    : 

iC'—Dp    see  ^p^*? 

n2r"P2    585a 

X1"^P    2017" 

rrprp  2049° 

"pbnp  1907" 

T]"1^    201Gb 

"'ZniSTO    1959b 

^bnp  1967" 

<PPTn"1lQ    2028" 

n:bp  sec  n:i2p 

sbnp  isi5b 

nnr  ^p  2045" 

C351P    518" 

nsbnp  1907"'  b 

XD-'P    20451' 

c;p  3oiob 

Hpbnp    2210";  2714" 

bX^P   2047";  2048" 

HC?P    733" 

nbnp    1905b;  2488'-;  2831" 

npip    2045b;  2040" 

nbsip    1959b 

Tibnp  2028" 

^n^p^P   2045''  ;  2047" 

n;p  3072" 

npnp  1934" 

b^p    5231';  20  IS" 

•n;p  2049" 

bpnp  2402" 

D^P   2037"  ;3072b;  3074"; 
3075" 

T15P   2010b 

nrn'E    382";   584";   3070b 

1^13    2051" 

bi!TJ3p»|2179b;2180a;2625b; 

ii 

bilJ51fl  1      2807b 

-rn:np  i9oeb 

"pP    507"-  b 

:r:np  1900" 

^y^P     733" 

"biZJpp   2867b 

' 

CPPP    2-188b;  249  lb 

-CTOr545b;  25r>s" 

V'^T 

iZJnpP    1909";  2083" 

1   »  ,  - 

k  '  .      2037b;  2()3X« 

U--                 V*v> 

mcnp  483a 

N'tJp  J 

^p    see  X^TJ 

niicma  i 

^  :  "    2319";  2420" 

bXtJ^P    2066b 

XbT3    1100b;1148";1149b; 
;*•      2438b;     2461b; 

Tltt)"1'ai459bj  2017";  240Gb; 

S^P       2743a 

n^onp    1907" 

ntJ"1^/     2407";  2751" 

«bp^ 

rpsnig  2049" 

tfttPft    2038" 

Sibp  Io33a 

pnp    474a 

yCJ^P   203  7b 

•  < 
^bT*1 

Ty1 

inp    13G4b;  2083" 

np^P    2037b 

X3P    see  X12p 

mt7"irT53    2012b 

in^p    709h;  3098b 

nxbp  704a 

INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


347.5 


704";  2743" 

115";  132b;  1253"; 
2039" 


58";  2028" 
1971" 


533";  583"; 

2178-  2514  = 
2867";  3105" 

1969" 


535b;  2411" 


[  2055"' b 
rn'Sp  1122";  2664" 

491";  1972";  2029" 


C35£  1971" 

Zisbp  2074" 

rc'-p  2513"'  2514" 

rgbfc  1325" 

"1bb'P  2051" 

~&-Q  1248";  297C.' 

Tt'pp  2030";  2S53" 

nipbr!  503";  600";  1572"; 
2439" 


V  r  ?2820-  2991" 
EfEJ 

nrmbp  3049" 


1228" ;  1857";  2177"; 
2442";  2443"; 
2539".'-;  2642"; 


•"n:p    2033";  see  also 

ninzs- 
2n:p  2031" 
Pin:p  1976" 

Ip    2033";  see  also 


•^P    593";  1152";  2062" 

"13'52    see  'ITS 

/     " 

.?£    2057" 

I"1?1?    2062" 


^  83°a 


nplS'O    2624"                                                 .'  '                                                         SiySttl 

.,                                                          n^P,515    600";  1572"                                 .             1436" 

•pb£  1470"'"                                                                          byj'jgJ 

.  T                                     rn^'B^  405"                                .  " 

njTS'a    1470"'";   1910"                                                                                                '??^    2779" 

Tii'j'a    1972"                                                •  :     2031"                                           nC^'a    777" 

T-^VMV>   1 

nbtt    2929" 

)  t  \ 

37:?:T2    582";  2095";  2097" 

•Y!"Ett    413" 

2101" 

nbtt    729";  1123";  2524"; 

2539"-";     2624";  ,               n?V^    2662";  3072" 

rn;p  see  nni:?2 

26G4a                          rcb'c'ja  2624"'" 

nffiJIp    1977" 

nS1?:!    2774";  2775" 

tjppp    3086" 

^:p    1980" 

nnbr:  406" 

D12} 

^ 

X"lp^    1973" 

'    2919";  3010" 

-lpn-£    3069";  3072" 

C72  ' 

]P    1982" 

t:bp    820" 

T81 

3^1 

ttvp    667" 

I^Cp  12898" 

,' 

^Sp  >2016";  241  1" 

n^;;?p  2028" 

"""a 

tl  l3y72  j 

nrcp    789b;  1110";  2471" 

*  J 

n^3pp   503";  669b 

fO   2097" 

?jbp    704";  1799";  1968"; 

]1'"1"CP   2421" 

2553" 

r  r  [2422" 

nep  2007" 

^tt    777b;  1254";  1288"; 

nip  J 

nip^a  3047a 

1325";     1569"; 

1587";     1799"; 

^{""P     9O^9a 
£>-  'T"     ^UO^ 

rO^lP'O   2974" 

1808"'";  1971"."; 

i  i  y  •  '«    see  •  *  *  ^  '^* 

inpp    3004" 

2029";     2624"; 
2758";  3152" 

™—  TJ    see  ws*^™ 

tfCp    3086" 

tfbb    612";  2074" 

n:p  72:3" 

tTPp    1336";  2889" 

robp  2051" 

n;p    1981-  2426";  3078"                 ^^    1450";  3047" 

n3b)3    2513";  2624" 

n:3Cp   2520";  2863";  3007" 

rroVDi 

ni:p  1983" 

r&Pp    301";  585";   2949"; 

n^    2553";  2624" 

nmrp    1977";2033";2453"; 

J-.V,        2561";     2732- 

3075" 
blbpp    3075" 

•^fT'f^J 

1  Vt7?       2854" 

"IttpXl" 

S^btt  1971" 

Clip    2545" 

n^p^a 

S^SblJ    1971" 

ni:p  417" 

nnppp  Lin- 

nS?!I971":202s" 

'  ."  :  [552";  553" 

n-Ste 

3476 


INDEX  OF  HKBRKW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


CC72    1086b 

S«isqi2    21691' 
•nSC-2    1793" 


1 127";  2255b 
5S()b;   133-|»;  30701'; 


iT'<yi312n;     314'1;    777-; 
nr«      S20";  H6S" 


2838" 

ny-a  51 1" 


ry^1127a' 


ti1';  20  12'- 


"C    1984" 

r    829b; 


2028" 

C    2033' 


^-..^  'l!)4(i 

;t:^   i9M 

^ytt    1945'1 

biyia    669";  G70";  876b 
2T2T2  '  see  ~""2 

r;"2  1 658";  3081" 


T3?,£    1945" 

by-Q    74Gb;   1141" 

byn  1273" 


?ytt  S9a;  2G6b;  606b; 
1273";  1310b; 
1376h;  1392'-; 
1935b;  2185b; 
2703b;  3153" 

"brr    519";   819" •'';    841b; 
2863" 

""'  ~    38a;  S9";  2703'1 

npjy 

"^"•2    21801' 

•"•2    913";   1484" 

nry1!?  ii50b 
nry'c  see  nr.y'c 

""T2    194(>" 
"^"•2    2994b;  299s1' 

iy)2    2467'' 

mr"£  [8881-;  1945'1;  19951'; 
_""•  2035";  3002"; 
V  ,•??  |  3063'-;  3082" 

nny1?  1945'-;  2013" 

1  1  14";  201 6:' 
•C7"r    25  lb;  2530" 
r^yiC    19451' 

"Try1?    533";    817";    2196''; 
3072";  3105b 


"T!?yT2    114";    1945b 

.I'^-I^  ';USa;  1()4"''' 


"lTl?y£  ^2905'' ;  29871' 


^2    2030' 

'"C,    se(!  T 
T2    1986' 


2094" 

•C    20121 
52T2    1117' 


yS1?  342" 

"IpJE'S  13251';  20G2b 

7^2/2  514'' 

]v"lE^  2129" 

PE^  see  PE'^ 


iPE^    1793b 

jnE^    776b;  777";  1436b 

rbi 

588b 

fraJ 

XX12    1221" 


^    1136b;1392b;2398b 
2407b 


Q2EU  138b;  331";  444" 
927b;  1386" 
1390'-;  1450" 
1452";  1454"1' 
1533";  1808'' 
2177b;  W>.' 


2234";     2398b; 
3154b 


CT2    2045" 
PS    2524" 


-1-2    941" 

•iStt    515b;    517-;    1122"; 
1862h;  2256"> b 


-^•52  Vll3(ib;   1140" 


ViSTQ    679b;1852"b;22011 
2434b 


510b 


T    2398' 


528";  1106lj;   1136'' 
2595";    2786"' b 

2787" 


1106h;   1136' 

"^"C : 


iT2  526b;  11271' 

nnS15  254" 

nSSB  432";  510b 

nb^tt  2095";  2097";  2101" 

nEISl?  841";   1080" 

:^2  422" 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3477 


^2X12  2068" 

n*1pE    593";   1041";   1336b 

2^?    2001";  206(i" 

nprq    20GSb;2069";3074" 

...-.:,     ^  ^      ..._.., 

r-        SGG    UJ  ^  I'— 

3372    595";  26581- 

HE5T52    1350b;2068b;2127" 

~^1?    765b 

nasntt    595";  596b 

"lEX'a    1389" 

^y.     , 

~ir        -^r 

-  ,483b;   588h;    1354"; 

rb2-)T2    2035";  3002" 

1  1  T         '  -  T. 

n"T!2  J      2000" 

na^.r    xi  .->>•;   1105";  1309- 

*^l<T  •     s(>0   '""'PT^'T 

"IT^  1 

2066";   2X(i8" 

"VZ12    2207";  286-1" 

^.  "  [2102b 

ri'CnC    2036" 

rnsTp  HOC  rn.iasr 

X"CE     1919-' 

T:'-1T2    2037- 

S^.rc    424";  906";    1324"; 

xn^,    s(i(i  _n^r 

X:y~'i^     J9991' 

1826";     2069"; 

2145h;  3003" 

—  ^U_  r  i'20361' 

rr'y^'a  584" 

pi?    2624" 

nby^r  H)84b 

n3£)2    1946'-;  2998b 

nS"ir    207b;     208b;    724"; 

SS^1/?    766b;   767";    1349b; 

na^tt    1325b;   1948" 

1136";     1278b; 
1981b;     2264b; 

1350" 
TZ/E"1T2    1  141b 

•"OS1?    1969" 

2581"  .i> 

. 

f~it:   i3o(5b 

IZJ^pa  1 

nX-l)2    1234";  2581";  3057b 

•jil        ^326";  594b;  2686b 

nsnp    7(50'' 

y?"!1?    341:i 

-   T 

__• 

pnr    525" 

ri"np^2  1909" 

I  IS  1/2    see  "JISTC  1TT52TC 

i- 

—.jjy-.^  i 

P7T2    525" 

1  JRv 

"  \  1  985" 

nnp^a  2183" 

mpE  V2419b;  2420" 

i~tTp"l)2  • 

»:                                 ' 

xip'aj 

mpsnTa  1348";  2454'' 

Tip    4X3b;  612'-;  1306" 

nip1)?    2419b;  2561" 

"in-a  2909" 

^.    _  '  KlS3b;  484" 

Dip's] 

I'a-i'a  7231' 

na 

aba  444";  ~24";  14i~b; 

p5"^    542b;  2847b 

n7"!')T  " 

1942b;     2210"; 
n'Qlp'Q        2402";  27431' 

rnb  see  :o* 

rn'-lp  ^483b;   110?' 

• 
—  ••**^fc^ 

npppJ 

•yan'a  2545b 

t  ill   1/2  I 

"^P1?    658";   1542b;  308  lb; 

"inp  313".'- 

''"intt    20341';  2035" 

np*  1     3082" 

TTa    2036" 

'  (WQ    see  ni?^£ 

nnp^  3072" 

!J"'"T'2    20361' 

CT-7P    2035" 

nnrap'a 

•'r^n1^  20811' 

ttt    2006b 

!    587b;  588" 

rritpjjtt  - 

nntl    854h;  1125";  1306"; 

STIJr    see  StJ"1^ 

bpr 

f!335b;  2596b;  2847b 

"5p^  J 

1984b;  2486b 

Xtett    528b;  1488b;  1559b; 
2007";     2198b; 

nnbp'a  2051" 

Tim?    203  7b 

2473";     2581b; 
2919b;     2942b 

•jbpE    2545b 

ni*ra  523" 

Sffia    1049b;  304  la 

nybp)2  os  !•>;  iioy- 

rnTC    849a;   1369";   1390" 

bSTZJ'/a    2066b 

D^y*  ' 

arra  2037" 

1    ' 

ly  '«- 

:  T  fsce  apis 
rvapn  J 

'Ti'TQ    25231' 

nhSTp-Q    2358" 

I  f      : 

"IITQ    sec  "hi? 

rSTS'a    528b;    674";    1117b; 

n:pE  1 

583b;  584" 

1228b;  2039" 

nip^J 

r    !        '    T     r 

3TL"T2    see  3ttJil2 

?rr:.pt!  205  1" 

P1"l^2    1996" 

H3TZJT2    see  rQltJIC 

fpTQ    1968" 

nna    2408" 

nxaTpa  2204b 

yisDTs")  " 

prin-a  see  prnsn  r^a 

-  '•*|T  -    : 
y'ip^  V721b;  2998b 

•JHtt    2295" 

aa'ttJ^2    1136b;  1139b;  11403 

ny  spte 

''"IP    583b 

aaipis  206ob 

r          (  :    -   / 

'"•  ""  T  ~  ^  n-1  "/•>     ->ir'i' 

mijia  2790'- 

ppJD    7()4b;  2399b 

-  -             •'  " 

T     T 

•                  • 

nn"1")^    1153b;  2007";  248(ib 

nrn    1977";  2083b 

~lpu    see     iipu 

VH^1^      7fl1.a-      TAta  •     O  .V.M  11  • 

bya-n^  2036h 

HiE1/?    741" 

70 la;    708";   2534"; 
2911" 


3478 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


r™*  i 

y'GTp'Q   2066b 

^:ma  2009b 

'     376b 

1  • 

: 

pypTpig  i307b 

rp'FiT  i 

nrOTrp    970b;  1941b 

npTpT?    1307b;         218()b; 

r    2008b;  3141a 

^in^:n^  J 

rG^CE  i 

2465"'  b;  3074" 

''              . 

J^.  (  :     1366b 

P^ir??    97b;    594";    2201"; 

•s''  seelvf 

•  vj?  r 

3074" 

np^'a  2067b 

rrntop  2010" 

n:r^    519";   674";   2066b; 

P""1P'52    2067b 

irirp  1755" 

2200b 

nP.P'Q    2009" 

nttJp    138";  2208" 

HBTtp    503b 

1-  "  " 

Hipp    21Slb;  21S3b 

C>riS    20661' 

'  *1'  :  "    2012a'b 

nnis'n  ] 

nnst"g  i  o  9  4  b  ;    1  1  o  i  " 

in^pp 

T  \~    2183";  2186" 

1799";    2554" 

nnt'p 

2556b;  2701" 

• 

piniT'a    722h;  2186" 

•JETOTg    518";    730";     745b 

X:    1248" 

—•-—  ^    onsob 

834";883b;109Sb 

T  '. 

1136";     125()b 

5*:    2153b 

^  '.      f  722b 

1852".  b;     1858" 
1982b;     1983" 

"^:    509b;   526b;    1249b; 
-•^:        2052";     2814"; 

•^TlJp    279()b;  2791" 

2016";    2201" 
2591" 

2923b;  3088" 

rn«: 

'Twl2    soo    ^  ',  /2 

PETTT;  27.57'- 

ns;  42  ib 

bxarr^  203s>- 

prp    51  Sb;  929b;  2S531' 

n^,»:    42  lb;  678b 

FPTpp    136b;   98  lb;    1411"; 

npTl"1/?    533";  766b 

CJ?;    2473" 

1620";     2039".  '-; 

244  lb 

bipTTT?    3079" 

^S«:    1559b;  25781';  25Slb 

•fTpB    382";  818";    1126b; 

ripffi^    14351' 

rx:  5i7b 

133.5";  2459" 

, 

}TS:    485b 

rau    20061';  2038" 

*jxTI?l?    3079" 

'  '•'_  v 

pS:    130()b;  1307" 

a|^    422^ 

l,u!!  ';  I  |2999a 

nps:  i306b 

n_.TL"£    .see  .  iSITDp 

k  •'!-"    :    * 

a:  21.531- 

b^TL't:    2488b;  24911' 

FT$Q   3086b 

*   * 

sa:  292  ib 

QiTp^  sc.f>  SITS 

>1"!nTL"5    2095";  2097" 

•    " 

aa:  i404b 

P^ittt    592";  1452b;  1455b; 
2394b;  3096b 

"^"Ti"/?    20(»7" 

ia:    2126b;  2127" 

^t'Q    1313";  1817";  2887b; 

1  '  "    2067" 

ns^ia:  405'- 

2888b;     2889'-; 

•"xina:  2129" 

2948" 

np"iZJT2    2007" 

^  *  'J^  ' 

n^STCp    3063" 

PITT1?    2237" 

n"?.^     r~ 

bcp    694b;  1289b;  2469'-; 

TZJCp    1105" 

^  ^           [ 

2470";    2471b; 

nPTCIC    3841' 

"l^;~5r'^r  r2127b 

2625b 

'•'   ' 

nii5i"l"3^a* 

b«p   379";    535b;    789b; 

PIC    408";  2337" 

-|«|8^-J3!Q5 

1170";     1681"; 

iapp    2866b 

v  i*1     r^ 

1687h;    2006b; 
2414";  2474".  b; 

3Pp    482b 

"jaraia;  2129" 
pia:  2ios" 

2475"'b;2476"; 
2806b 

5J?C?P,p    2045" 

T 

rna;'  2141" 

biZJp    535b 

n?ffi'.pp    2045" 

na:  2120'' 

•  •  j_  •               ••  .^  . 

S^a:    125";    555a;    783b; 

v~'y'Q    see  L13Tr 

C^pp    see  P.p 

1152";     1408"; 

cV^Jp    203Sb 

P:2PP    695b;  2016";   2904s 

1447b;    2183b; 

pi^^lCp    2038h 

ny?pp  eoob 

2459b;    2460a; 
2461b;    2578a; 

n^TSvTB^  i 

IP'S    see  "'IP12 

2581a 

T  ',*  Y.  !     2038b 

;     :•                        •     :      • 

?in^ia5t!ia  J 

]Pb   868";  1917-b 

ns^a;  2466b 

PpbUJp    2039" 

•np    171b;  872'1;  2008" 

nra:  1 

.  '  '    2126b 

Iptjp  noib 

n:P)2    1228";  200Sb 

p^a;  ) 

naritp^  2066b 

^JP1??    2067b 

ba:    1086";2156b;3098b 

INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3479 


509b;  660a;    1117b; 

•rjj 

l2639"'b;      2644b; 

nb"n: 

2488b 

, 

1942a;     2095"; 

IT 

I     2805-  3058a 

i^n: 
* 

2155b 

?3 

2097a;     2101"; 

Y    ' 

^?5 

2401b;     2814a; 

an: 

580b 

3n; 

1308b;  1377b 

3049a;     3051"; 

i-|3 

869";  1307" 

f441";   523b;  524">b; 

3088a 

1 

603";       1120- 

8ftOa 

bn: 

1124a.b;  2107" 

T     i     ' 

oUi* 

u_. 

1369a;     1394"; 

nbnp 

49  lb;  576b;  7221' 

'^3 

532";  2108b 

nbn: 

1606b;     1798- 
1808b;     1813h; 

nbn: 

1124a'b 

5x™ 

J 

nbn: 

1966b;     2422b; 

r"~~' 

1880b 

Pn; 

514b 

T     : 

2595";     2792"; 

B33? 

2126b 

^ 

2524".'' 

2836b;     2866b; 
3045";     3151" 

fiipiaa 

552b 

in? 

2595";  2866b 

nbn: 

1377b;  1468b 

•ten: 

2141a 

in: 

523b;  524".  b;  552b; 
89  7b;     1120"; 

b^bn: 

2109" 

33: 

724b;  2130-  2210"; 

2145b;     2595"; 

"l'^?n? 

2131" 

2538"  -b 

2866'' 

nn: 

2153";  2558".  b 

"O: 

459-    588b;   2458b; 

X13 

851" 

en: 

2109" 

2550b 

aia 

2108" 

2131" 

^Ti* 

94QOa 

T    :     v  : 

,v 

Z^TrOO 

n5^ 

2126b;  2154" 

i^n: 

2109" 

TO? 

952b 

11: 

1221";  2402";  3044" 

'rn: 

1343" 

TO: 

2082b;  2154b;  2773h 

-n: 

1 

i  ri- 

TO: 

1279b 

13 

|2154b 

•nn: 

2109" 

"^a? 

569";   606";   2040"; 

ma 

1 

-  1  - 

2443b;     2454"; 

;' 

1313";  2757b 

ten: 

862b;   942";    1068b; 

ia: 

2626" 

nna 

J 

2109b;  2737".'' 

n-vp  ' 

rn: 

699";  2117" 

ten: 

9b;127a;427";428b; 

nr» 

2488b 

nis 

} 

862b;873";1492a; 

»  i*  ^j  j 

2153";  2561b 

2132a;    2703b; 

•^» 

)3? 

2029b;  2813b 

ni: 

J 

2737";  2738" 

?a: 

522b;  1336b;  2403" 

nni: 

2154b 

liten: 

2109b 

3tt: 

2402a;      2403"; 

n^r. 

2111a;  2462" 

nten: 

416b;    514-    589a; 

2836"-b 

1 

708a;      1110b; 

D33 

2403a 

r  • 

"13 

2155";  2170a 

lllla-       O1  *}  O  a  • 

1111           y               -_/     1    O    *J          y 

2737";  3027b 

a?3 

2403" 

013 

1584" 

xntenp 

2132" 

133 

2756b 

yn 

1148a 

•jnten: 

1386a;  2132-2737a 

te?: 

1049"'b;  2917" 

n-HSH: 

2153a 

nn: 

2743b 

tea; 

522b;  1338a 

n^'i: 

1 

nn: 

2109b;  2515b 

*i3 

1350b 

T 

|1104b 

np; 

68b;     51  lb;     798b; 

ai; 

1145a 

113 

1112a 

816b;  2459" 

ns*1^: 

589a;  674";  2298" 

n^? 

1145a 

n|3 

2846b 

C^t2D 

2139a 

n~T 

2108b 

i"1?; 

_,,.» 

P*J  A  i 

nais 

1145";     2639a'b; 
2644b;  3058a 

2124";  3050" 

ovi 

D/4a 

2847b 

n?aip 

2129b 

bj; 

1120";  2867" 

nsb: 

2140" 

'in: 

2124- 

nr: 

1675b;  2156";  2594b 

iy; 

1307b 

mai 

PI? 

943b 

nip; 

2147b 

i  1 

1050b 

PP 

778" 

1913 

541b;  2153" 

n^. 

1228b 

i!3 

703-    762";    272  lb 

1^3 

1094a 

ni: 

160b;  1110b;  2721b; 

IT: 

}703a;    762";    763a; 

13 

3035b 

ip 

J      1801" 

1g'3> 

ro; 

695b;  2204b 

isn? 

2109b 

13 

^"S 

1881";2154a;2454a 

nn: 

1308b 

T? 

517b;    552b;    1825*; 
2134a 

173 

1228b 

Din: 

2109b;  2132" 

i; 

nana 

492a 

nSn: 

2109b 

n^- 

34X0 


INDEX  OK  1IKBRKW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


nSD:    2X40"                                           "pSy:    13GG";  2974'' 

~s:    1120b;  3050 

HZ:    2X8";  GG5";  mi"                          1":    348b;    512b;     000b; 

rn?s:  see  -12: 

ni;    13b                                                              1182";     1212"; 
1317";     1821": 
rc;    706";   lX23b                                                19G7h;     2316"; 

n?:    170b;  1141"; 
2323" 

2205b; 

-Z:    2129b;  23GO"                                                  281fih5  3127" 

?    174b;  943";  2323" 

rr:    -SS:,  ,mv                                rnr:    19G7";210Gb;21<>7"; 

n?:  J 

23  1G";     29G()b; 

-<nv-  • 

'-;     2XGS"                                                                                     ;•().-,  jl- 

[  12141";  21X01 

;  239X" 

CZ;     12791'                                                "7i"    2107" 

22;  - 

CZ:    259()b;  307G"                               ~*"!"'    21  2G'1 

n^i-:  2i4i" 

"Z:    851";   1105"                                   17":    2107" 

'"?:    820b;  2538'- 

1Z:    97";  2467";  2XG5"-  '                   r.~^;    11  IX";  3000" 

1^:  ii20b 

"HZ:    97";    112X";    13:59b;   '              ""7?=    S('(-  ~7?^ 

1$;    11  75";  2  123";  2808»; 

•)•)()  .-,;.         •>  |  i:  71,.                                      . 

3046'-;  307 

4" 

2865".;                                         ^    2031a;  21^' 

IS;    513b;  1G331'; 

222  1  a 

n'~:  913" 

Zip:    210";   4x5b  ; 

HOG1'; 

5STE:    2133b                                      a^pqjIBp    2134" 

2112" 

*$>*:    2133"                                             n?r    2495" 

Zp:    2133" 

-•-v,.   .                                        nr:  2155" 

rap:  ii()(ib;  1971' 

•  i372T     139" 

i  1     : 

-v«-       •  •                                 '-"'E:  i 

"p:    1375b;  2758" 

IE.     1866'                                                              •     i  (;;>•;     \-2-2V-;    2I331' 

B                                                                   *  r** 

"*:    734" 

lu.    186b" 

''•• 

"IIE:  sc(>  """IE:                       1""'v  ^r  -'•'•''' 

rnpx:  2S(>7b 

n-TZ:    JXGG";  2147"                                  "^r    -I|S:' 

~p:    (5GX";  2515" 

-;ir"  '                                                              ~^:    2X5Gb:2X57";2xG()"- 

STT.p:    2133" 

__.    '[    2147b                                                             2X01" 

ip;i 

~E:    57Gb;  1092":   1  1  Iv 

1  •Gti7"-l);  1471" 

2515b 

2->1E:     lS(i(i";  21  17"                                                  ;}()().> 

KT 

^rp:  2147'-                                  :?:  sec  -PE: 

1  .  ^    1470";   1471" 

C:     15X4-;2415b;277G";                       7?:    507'' 

T£T 

"iTE:    254  5b 

Zp:    340"'  b;  25X7° 

•iTE:    50";      1451';      20Xb; 

Zp:    25121' 

5iZ:    32X"                                                               418i.;  4<)l>>;  739:,. 

i:.  i:  sec  i": 

nc:  sec  sir:                                      *oi":    1221-; 

123(5'';      1351": 

brn:  2i:;4b 

^:    XX2-;  1441'-;  2454"                                     ]SS]:,    ,sss,,,     ^^ 

ITT  531:    2134b 

?(C:    2454'-;  2743"                                                1889";      190G"; 
H)41b;      1942"; 

•^i:    2X40'- 

:|^'    2639tt>b-  2G45"                                             205G";     22G3"; 

Hi:,    see  1"> 

*C:  :                                                                        2337"  b;    24()xb; 

•Mi)  -,...      .->  4  qi;i,. 

i'c:  iiii"                                           ~        '    -4:<'l)  • 

25(52";     25G3": 

['J2134b 

TJIC:    2153"                                                             2837"-  ";     2838"; 

T 

-...    .,,.,.,                                                                302X";  30X5" 

'27";     254a; 

2SXb; 

j^p.    _9  .;i 

418";  528b; 

5X0"; 

ny;  2153" 

728b;     1049''; 

w^,l.    .,  .,.„,                                           r?':    ]  I-'*' 

1107b;     1 

132"; 

nips:  2133" 

SIT:        1133";     1 

149b; 

~":    494''  ;  2779" 

'II      1150'-;     1221"; 

Z^-PE:  2ii9" 

*•*        1248";     1418b; 

"'bPE:    2HX";  21-19" 

1890b;     239911; 

2454";     2469b; 

}*'.    1120b;   1345" 

2561b;     2903b; 

2?:    1392b;  1443";  2743b 

2942b;  3046" 

msy;  2iO(>"                                -i^«  S(H,  ^iir" 

sir:  1484" 

-ay;  2  us-                                n^:  830b 

sir:  1049" 

1"Z":  210G"  '•                                nr:  2(>25" 

sir:  sec  s^ir: 

T^y;  21015'-                                ns:  see  nsi: 

-sir:  see  nspic: 

IXDKX  OK  HKHKKW  A\D  AKAMAIC  \\OKDS 


3481 


nip:    741";    81 (i-    1049"; 
1865";  3011" 


.   :    580b 

TT:J 
^r:  814- 


2(526-     2689"; 


iris:  sec  n«$ 
npr;  isi3" 

T)TT:    1865";  3011" 
tyiS:    3041- 

n:ir':  591" 

ZtJ:    592";   182(5" 

npC:  145";  48(5";  518- 
592-973-1471- 
2495" 

ris:  490" 

"TS:    797";  798";  2143" 
pt;:    1813";   1814" 
P^J251-   254";    1340"; 


pi  T    see  1  v- 
np:    5";  769" 

_..^_^  1535";  2263";  3007"; 
•   '•  ?  [      3075" 

n2r:J 


in:    173'';    210-     728b 


1228";  1232" 
1395";  1859- 
1865";  1968" 

2178-  2825" 

]n:    2120";  2450" 


ISO    931";   1123";  2708";  n^ETJID    2095-  2097" 


ISySC    2016" 

X20    2629";  30SS" 
S2D    2710" 


120    (556";     694";     700" 
1107" 


"2D  1121" 
"2C  2972" 
"20  1132";  1437";  2972" 

sr2o ) 

2095";  2097" 

srsir 


-P2C  I 


"I?0    3110" 
~;u"0    584";  709--' 

"50    830";   1289";   1965"; 


]-1"jO  876";    1111"; 

Z^O  2821" 

"no  1083";  2200";  2905" 

n"0  2178" 


nn? 
">n: 

2121";  2139" 

2121" 
3081" 
517" 
517" 
2701";  30M" 
316" 
2153" 

.VD 

:oo 
"ip-c 

"iC    132";  1681";  2105- 
2821" 


riC'C    1423";    19S5 

"'CIO    2874" 

?"0  242";  701";  1052" 
1117";  2538" 
2871";  3078" 

^C    69(5";  913" 
"E^C    2871";  3083" 

""^  .81(5";     819";     993" 
-"•T  '      1248-  2838" 

~2HO    671";  2524" 
TIC    2180" 
^.nC    687";    1995" 

"inc  2035" 

""0    3002";  3004" 

rrhc  2035" 
n^nc   1984" 

5^0   ;     ^     a 
WZ! 

""0    541";  2813" 

'  >2790" 
TO    2802" 

i;iC  2802" 
3TO  2805" 
S^C'C  2812" 


6";   1119" 
1419";     2237" 
2423";     2974" 
^7v  '      3073" 

"0    829";  2292" 

H20    503";    829";   2292b; 
2948-' 

n;,3p  i 

x    2869' 


3482 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


w 

H2y    see  HiCT''"^ 

^.,c    9?39h 

''"  '  J2743" 

^  *  "  , 

•t  v 

"rV 

'  M312"-1';  2721" 

'"^  [591b;  1037a;  2180b 

rare  27ii" 

nx:c 

C^.y  J 

b;C    896b;  1125" 

n^njc  2720" 

"T.y    2438b 

b;p    1124"'b;     1  125"; 

PiCIO    2G90" 

170    1929b;  2377";  2408" 

2837" 

Cy    2091b;  2092";  3109" 

-S"nC    513b 

nibnc  i 

(896'"   1  1  '•*'-)" 

Cy    .sec   C^C 

"S^.P    2974b 

mbnip  ' 

1T2PC    2813" 

n"]y    376b 

2753b;  '2754"; 

~"y    254  5b 

inpi 

1  ^  f271()b;  3089" 

2  8  5  3  b  ;      3  0  0  S  "  ; 

riyc  5i3b 

3129" 

rrc  2198" 

-"PC    2743b 

r,3p    see  P12C 

k""C 

cnci 

be    412b;  413" 

-,.;,',  :'21^8" 

".'   r4  30" 

crc  J 

X2C    2791" 

nsyC    513b 

T!D    GG91' 

"ibc    13381' 

- 

i^  ^  j 

"ire  i 

"be    2714" 

"  f2929b;  30S3" 

•376b 

rr^yo  ; 

nnnpJ 

nby    20961';  248Sb;  29(i3" 

Ty    1175b;1435b;  1  136b; 

ITO    2813" 

iig 

2690b 

S13D 

~SO    70  lb;   13501' 

•  "   '2663"-  •>()((  tb 

..-.-  —     :    - 

Js~^y  1 

'  "V  127()1;1 

ny    670";  1132" 

•^S  ' 

nsr  1 

Tny    695b;  2409b;  2742b; 

11*30  'i 

r.nSC    1867";  2701' 

3110" 

'         [2974b 

-:ny  1968" 

"p3C  J 

"pEy    2774";  2775' 

nbo    1132'';   1133" 

•'.ISO    709";  2856b;  2S57"; 

"ny   495";   890b;    1182"; 
19S3b;     2738b; 

i?0    see  ?30 

2861b 

2815";  2825b 

robe    26621' 

bEC    51  lb;  S541' 

SVT?   4a 

bbo    1392'' 

"?9    587a 

ci~x  iny  2175" 

"5v    587" 

bs'nny  4" 

T]^  *z  j 

.  .  _ 

.  ,*:       383a;    13921';  2787" 
nSp-IC  J 

p£o 
L  ";!.  'GGr)1> 

*"'"—<  ^  1  76"  ;     494b>     495a- 

r-iny  ^    27>42b 

y-y    737";   1119'';  2032''; 

1   -  i 

T             -; 

2210";     2593b; 

^Ey    256b;     336";     723b; 

rnny  176" 

2596";     2713b; 

813b;902b;903"'b; 

.^2y  4a  b 

2856" 

181  ;•>'',      18Sti"; 

i  •  ,  . 

ybo  \ 

2000";     2(iS9b; 

n?"?y  495" 

nipbn^n-}2714" 

2704b;     2754"; 
3123' 

•*-&    4" 

Cybo    1473";  1907b;  1908" 

182b;     495b;    496"; 

bxnr;ny  4" 

nbb  mi";  1122" 

-IEC        503"'  b;       729b; 

n"i~izy  I 

CO    2840" 

1041b;     1570"; 

^i-^y  j  " 

'•'•^        1S121';     2487"; 

i     : 

in:  "'.apc  2674b 

2597";  3123" 

-bp  "iny  89ob 

I'-CC    2947";  3050" 

"PEy    27211' 

i-'r  "^'}4b 

^•20    1337b 

n^iEC    see  "1?0 

siu:  -rny  ; 

iniD'KJp    2717" 

i"l"lEO    2722" 

'*    1049b;  2408b 

baoi 

Ci*™1^0  1 

"ny  •• 

,  v  T  kl09b;   1455b 

"  :"  :   r2255";  272  lb 

": 

5^20  J 

CiT*C  ' 

•^ny 

... 

•  T    : 

'    585a;  1484a 

ns:o  27i9h 

rnsb  2836" 

nny  J 

nX-C    see  nS'IO 

".0    1354b 

En?    667a;  1865b 

t:3n;o  268ia 

27y    29741' 

•^"Sny    667";  2408b 

n:o  532».b 

bnno  5isb 

"'•  i667";  2000" 

n:o  2720" 

pJ^P    2693" 

"ny  i 

IXDKX  OF  HKIiHKW   AND  ARAMAIC   \\OROS 


3483 


10S01';  1  121";  1  142b 


125    97";      459";      72Sb;                   D515    (52''                                                   ?15    425";  744";    1142b 

1  1  2  7  :1  ;      1  1  S  3  '•  ; 

'   "    152";  820";  S97h                      r^Eiy 

1  2  I  <v—      1  3.).)"; 

v  .      1861" 

20X1";     2205"; 

(15    306" 

n^E5J 

2255h;  3076" 

S:i5    56b 

^15    955b 

12y    45!)" 

n:~y  57" 

yi5    1343";  3012".'> 

Hiyiy    48";  2591' 

L5    340'>;  2527" 

i.).)4";   l  /.)S" 

"12"  ii27"->> 

T""    2205"                                               115    593";  2111";  2834b 

•>":2y    1355";  1446";  1513b; 

"115    259b;  1086";  2200"                        ".15    377";   1862";  2422": 

1514" 

115    5S1".'-;  899"                                                 27()'}}"'     2SI:i'i; 

- 

281  1" 

-  "35    3 

115   899" 

115    487b 

V-3y    894  '• 

'~V1~"™«?      j'.)|, 

•    i- 

21^y    sec  315 

n?"l'-y    2;Ja 

HJ15    1122";   1866" 

my  2868b 

TZJ2"    2024" 

X^2    KOC  H15 

T'^    3042" 

r*2" 

"™^  *i*y    o  i  ~  "'t 

'   '  297'-*" 

>—  1^    _j  i  /  .  )' 

ry  343" 

ni25  1  ' 

5215    889'1 

T5    1123";1248b:1249b: 

n^l 

.";"    2180''                                                             1797'' 

r*25  >3S2-  709b;  26231' 

23^5                                                            K-72  1 

:    |                     7                       7 

| 

f2095";  2097"                                       v    3043" 

235  !                                                     n-T5  J 

2.}5    1934" 

TP51                                                      5TST5    342b;  2144" 

r 

.     2178b 

2"  5    1934" 

115  J                                                    '12-75    1087b;  3072" 

n335    1472b 

rT5    87b;  760b;  2348" 

p?3T5    344" 

"•-""    737";  2X74".'- 

"15    310b 

13T5   344b 

5^5    25941' 

n^51                                                       n-75   345b;  1178" 
1374b;  1469";  1544b 

535    542"-b 

N15J 

n31T5   345b 

n'535    734";    905b;    1367b; 

'V,5    sec  115 

11-75  1 

1905b;  2999b 

C":!5    340b 

'    345b 
1-75  J 

•n'535    581"                                                _,.., 

s 

r.535    905'-;  906"                                    ^}34°b;  -^ 

775   342b;  1337b;  1338b 

7T5    342b 

""    T^'f  Si                       ^    103',  734";  1049" 

•^n^ny  344" 

2411"                                            5iy    1S191' 

^•T"    3043" 

">*    748b;    897";    1110'';                       bl5    see  55 

X^'y   3043b 

1852".  b;  3099"                            1.-. 

T    '      \ 

—  —  '.»            __,.                                          '  ••  •• 

5«''T5   344b 

\  \j/    sec     i  i  \*>                                        Vi« 

»  t 

5X1-75    3044b 

rm*  48b                                      •                                                  •  \ 

"i     U»;      „»;      ,  ;                         ^f   •"'"^    "^                                     '^     ^ 

701";  3099"                               "'  ^ 

115]                                                         n'55j 

,l\T!*i(3043a'b 

S5il5li447b                               n'r,y  sce  nbr 

Sp75    344b 

iy)348b                                          HlttW    344b;  345a 

P115    244'-;  905-  1063".  b;                                                                                       '  -.Ty    345b 

^r")~'^''                                                        130'"    705"'    I01()b- 
^    2201b                                           =.,^        1011-7    1041-!                 n—    22°2;i 

rP15i                                                     ^vu        2323";     2504a;                     pT5    1106b 

;^j48b                                                 -^        2925";     3106"; 
3108b 

Sp75    2708a 

-f~y   55b                                                  -;i5    iQ70a 

Hp75    344" 

^r"?   55b                                                P?  ,1101b;1468b;1469a; 

17y    1374" 

iri5    56"                                                ^115  1     2504b;  279Sb 

175    1374" 

<1^"1"5    56"                                               nil?    S83b 

175    1040b;  1081b;  3100s 

3484 


INDEX  OF  1IKBKEW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


x-Ty  ios2"                          nsn~py 

••JSy    2178" 

bX-]Ty    342"                                          -m  py    943'' 

nitiry  55";  2737"; 

2738" 

mry  i                                   -vrry 

11  -     1374" 

by   585";    078' 

;    728" 

rnv  J                               smpn  py  952'' 

1  130"; 

1  5  5  9  " 

nnty  io82a                           n~n  py  952" 

2411"; 
2901" 

2779" 

rnyy  iso4b;  2743b                 ".^n  -py  952" 

'«-'»>•  i 

•nty    1085'-                                       -P.n  py    1340'' 

^)2970";  3121 

" 

b^-nty  345"                               a^ryi 

'    941'' 

Xby    3033" 

m-ny  i                                       Q;IJ  ,! 

n    342";  304:;''                                      ?  * 

."5y    2848" 

lnr,Ty-'                                                          -jry    942";   1340" 

nby    522";     005" 

;    797"; 

BppiTy  345"                         a^br»y  "py  944'' 

1107"; 

1221"; 

TV  1179-                           b:n  py  953'' 

1248"; 
1392"; 

1207"; 
2039- 

"y    2297''                                      p-2")  py    <)53i. 

3040" 

nipy  259>>                           irpr  py  954'' 

nby  i8oi" 

pipy  2052"                         a^ip  py  i548b 

nby    200";  2039"-" 

;2041"- 

miTi:"    2130";  28  ID1'                       rPEP,  ry    ()")4'' 

•;„•       2042"; 

2643"; 

T, 

2044" 

rs-jy  414"                                  r^y  io8ob 

-..u.. 

r-jy  iosob                              np^y  9551- 

—  .'-...   • 

I??    702"                                                          'S7h;    132'';    171'-; 

n:by)97:i 

H-1B2    317";     702";     703";                                    211;;  288";  002"; 
1801"                                          T>y        665».i>;     1136"; 

rk*\~ 

;      ..                                                                      1337";     1370'-; 

•,    [  y<  ;  112' 

i,1  it-3    31/:i                                                   -;•        ]  n)1.,;     1402"; 

\^'-  ] 

*«  ni-l'ay    317"                                               ""y        1590'-;     ISK)'-: 

HpJlby    1424";  21  14 

;  3045" 

^^MW                                                                       2191-     2545b; 

"'by    2348" 

i,  '     1  328a                                                          2  f)  5  2  ''  '     ;i  °  °  '  "  J 

3074";   3134'' 

^by   928";   1370'' 

"•il'  r"-,^y    32s-  2779b                                     "I"!?    287-  078"-'' 

"'by  59i" 

•7                                      x^^y  Hoi- 

rrby  K(.(,  niby 

X?y  •87b;  88";   ]319b                           "T^    1491";   1570" 

T^by    20(i";    591"; 

1437"; 

r?y                                 nbsn  -iiy  2004'' 

3039" 

b:ry  s  '<>b                       a^Tcpn  -py  tjoo1' 

ppby    !<)";    1205"; 

1250"; 

i  ••  c 

1251";      ] 

254"; 

nV    see  ^-                                              "'^    1-493" 

1204";     1 

207"; 

py    1449"                                            '^    149->l 

1390" 

u  3    11*1  j  -•)-•>  ' 

nb^by  i 

irn:  i^y  1492" 

t:1??    475";  1142'-;  1444"; 

nbby  >     ' 

2533"                                C!2tt  ^i^y    1493" 

-h-'""        ..«.. 

Eti^y  i  iio^i                               TU^y 

'    311";  31  3"";  31  4" 

bby    20";     818"; 

1234"; 

-ny;n  ^y  1545-                                 ^< 

3030" 

a^y  1449"                              r^'  >S('e  "" 

bby  lS,-e  bbiy 

i-ry    1449"                                             '  '3??    36a'  20!)-" 

nbby  see  nb-by 

D5n-i                                                     ^??y    2737'';  2840" 

aby  1500" 

«'!,;«  f917"                                            n|-?    1  100";  1900";  1907"; 

U.T 

2092" 

a^y  see  a*iy 

"??    SS'-;      210";      207";                       ^?    28" 

Ht:by   891";1458"."; 

1907"; 

342";  058";  074";                    1^-37    37a 

3051" 

724";  941";  1042"; 
10G9b;     1085";                      W    35'J 

"pttby  ioo" 

1150";     219Gb;                  HODy   37" 

rittby    209G";  2488"- 

> 

2438";  3081" 

_^                -sU 

IDy   35";     579";     2178"; 

~'T2   *S    see    \^t  1^?12 

^a  py  945"                                       2^54b 

•jbby  | 

B^pa  py    945a                                                 13y    3ob;  579" 

n^nbn"1!   J100" 

INDEX   OF   IIKMKKW   AND  ARAMAIC   \\<>KI>S 


:;4S.r) 


nby 


TO 


89h;  90-;  9s1' 

2590" 

1 080'' 

117";  584";  11211'; 
1215";  1570h; 
1580h;  1593"; 
2319" 

210";  1559";  1908"; 
2558";  27-13''; 
274  5b 


see 

1338";  24 15";  3033" 
1984h;  2398'' 

1171';     794-;     797"; 
1931" 


Qy    120" 

£y  ii8b 

117" 


*— ""''/sy  ii7b 


^ffi^y  1171- 


5T?y    3007-- 

bry  ii2b 

p'tty    11 21' 

ipbay  112'' 
srciisy  1457' 

W"  }l354" 


439";  777'' ;  1583-.' 
1808".'';  2092' 
2500";  275 1- 
2784-;  304 5" >b 

3045" 


2752";  3080" 
1277" 
2191b 


113'' 

^•ay  ni( 
-?y  128' 

2;y     1  122b;  2527";  3050" 

:»:y  820" 

n:y  3b;  818";  10511'; 
1099";  121  5b; 
2420";  2488'-; 
2831";  3030"; 
3099" 


ry?y  797'- 
n?;*  si7b 


"  2027";  2420- 

w:y  KK)" 

•1:"  1215b;  2027" 

•i""  1439b;  2027- 


]"y    533";  S9G'';  3007" 


""    331";     522b; 
912'-;  2033b 

Yr?    129";  070" 

*::"  129" 
"::r  129- 


;:y  589";  2999" 


TS:y    098";    1132'-;  2093'' 

t\:y  250  lh;  3010'' 

r:y  i3o«;  442";  27  is'- 

niniy  i3oh 

?"  130b;  144b 

^nirry  J 

C^C"  1780'1;  21  10b;  3080'' 

5Sy  24381' 

bsy  940b;  1392";  3027b 

bpy  2190'' 

^:sy  2198" 


277s'-;  284  7b; 
285  I1';  2972"; 
3009";  31551' 

13051';  1300";  1547"; 
1908";  3110"; 
3114" 

2420" 
ti5" 

[l()82" 

1447b;  2818" 
GG9b 

491'-;  493";  495b; 
1081b 


Sp*    4951';   1144b 


]|y    1082" 

^y    009'-;  25l)9b 

'  ^'^  1 701";  2S22-' 

^py    1549" 
Spy    1549" 

"'"'     1367" 

~?py J 

ropy  2808" 

ipy    2594b 
H^lpy    89";    1549" 
bpbpy    700'1 
7P^py    309";   71  i()b 

~py    1402b 

ipy  400" 

inpy    2703" 
"p"!py    27b;  910" 
TTpy    700b;  2348" 


3486 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


EJpy    1449" 

n'any    1309";2186b;2868a; 

•niwi 

n2?    87b;  211";  944b;  see 

3089" 

\"     1249";  2527b 

also  n^y 

1'i^ny  2407b 

\  - 

ny  968a 

•ny  968b 

1W!7     ^!9S!a 
*!'£      O^O 

a^y    945";  2178a;  2408b 

niynyl 

n^ny  3i7b 

any    14S9";2056b;2083»; 

nyn^Uee  nyiny 

DTO         b 

2872";     3002"; 

'  /" 

nyny 

K    :  - 

3037" 

~.) 

?jny  si7b 

"'ny'ny  259b 

, 

an"  i 

^briy  320a 

""  f213b 

any  ' 

sny  517" 

n-^bny  i 

any  798b 

rny   2129";  2202";  2854" 

V"'f317b 

any  i 

nsny  2202a 

11  "^ 

v"  1  104  1"  ;  20o6  ;  30  /  2  ; 

, 

-ili'          *J^04   ' 

Siyl     3077";  3104b 

'?ny  1307" 

bx^ny  2204b 

any    1120b;  1473";2404b 

•'pny  246b 

pry    1306b;  1337b 

• 

nny  852" 

™    2201";      2533  "•  b; 

T'ip  ny    1036b;  15431' 

2-py        2697" 

TEny-  422";  2181" 

nny  i7b;  ii45b 

nany  21  ib;   592b;   593"; 

TZJy   209  lb;  2092" 

nny  1013" 

8()lb;  831b;  899b; 
1041";  2407" 

airy  1293";  1375" 

nt-y    522b;    704b;    1051b; 

nnny  i7b 

nany  24osb 

1098b;      1121"; 

•jiany  886b;  24osb 

•any  i 

":    30S5b 

1149b;     1221"; 
1968"'b;    2()27b; 
2178";     2248b; 

B 

n^E    721b;  2513" 

3105b 

nSE    1239" 

Tan?  225-' 

bsniry  262" 

nXE    1278b 

nny    221'-;  287" 

npy  97ib 

nnxa 

nny   2013";  2111" 

.^     2095";  2947" 

nxns  5i3b 

rwiy 

nLy 

nnsE 

:    1150b 

_......      r)-.7H 

rir*"^" 

'"' 

"nXE    2247" 

n;,ny    287";  2544" 

n^iry  262b 

H5E    1108b 

rriny    864";  2111a;  3()35b 

"ty    267" 

b^si    b 

-----  1 

pfcy   2116";  2198b 

b;iE  I 

«•  '   2111a 

pry   997";  2116" 

y.}E    1484";  1490b 

uUJy    997" 

nnny  2486b;  2868" 

\      v    ••         v  *7  1 

y.jE    593b 

• 

pipy    1069" 

, 

ny  "., 

xS^y^E    2207" 

J.-',~.  [259";  2908" 

.-  "    2944b 

nnipyJ 

n3E    1086b 

"     ^ 

n::E    576b;  722b 

• 

m»y  2590b 

1  - 

•  '            ^ 

n-B    2022";       2530"-  b; 

•ny  969b 

.     -   sce  n-1^ 

253  lb;  2541" 

y^ny  2949b 

'„.  /'/  J811";  2948" 

bKn-jB    2294b 

tjny   259b;   694b;    1006"; 

.  . 

n^n"S3    2294b 

1010";     1149>>; 

"OTUy   704b 

2200"-  b 

nipy  2773b 

•jinE    2207" 

tfny    1010";  1144b;2467b  ! 

nnijl^y   270";  584" 

•  |2294b 

bny  so35b 

ta.»...g.  1 

irp~E  > 

nbny  iisib;  3035b 

.    '  '."n    270"'  b;  2753" 

c^ns 

any  2407b 

nny  see  mn^y 

nnhlpy    270b;  2389b 

*    2530"-  b;  2531"-b 
("  ,'5 

cny  see  ciny 

Knp?}27°u 

V^IB 

nnyi 

\    1350b 

nny  see  n^ny 

"nil 

J"     [2206b 

ntiny  i 

n^iny  300~b;  3008" 

INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


31X7 


HE    33b;     674";     G79b; 

l^B    2400" 

nirbE    2208h;  2376" 

728b;  899";  2093"; 
2422b;     2814b; 

pffi^B   2400b 

TEJbE    2026b;         2297b; 

3096h 

"Jin^B    2402tt 

2376".'';    2963" 

nxiEi 

tfE    512";  1231b;  2125b; 

fib?    2297" 

rpsj  *" 

3049a 

nrbE    255b;  2297";  2379"  b 

HIE    490b 

B^a?  nnDE    1443b;  2410" 

"E    2093" 

E1E    2392b;  2511" 

barSvE    2511" 

sbE    133713;  1389";  2001"; 
2()62b;      2403- 
2805";  3104b 

::S    22371' 
n:E    706";  7971' 

"^tpiE    2423" 

XbE    2062b;  3104b 

n:E  see  LT:E 

!pB    G74b;  1087b;  1234'-; 

n^sbs  see  rnbs 

H2E    72  lb;    722";    1137"; 

1793";  2208" 

ncsbE  see  "iDsbE  nb;p, 

1435";  Ki07b 

blE    417b 

3bE    2296b;  2S66b 

~X":E  } 

u\.«  2298a;  -;5->sl> 

"^E    2506" 

, 

'?S  -^  ' 

5bB    2296b 

"jb'E    2506" 

"  ! 

"E  sec  ]^;B 

rupB  25oi" 

3bB    2296b;2595";2866b; 
2899b;  3074b 

S^E    723b;  lOSS1-;  1127b; 
1131";      1141"; 

p^E    1150b 

HilbB    2595" 

1253";     1354b; 

HJ51B    1306" 

TIJpbB    see  Tlbb^E 

1418b;     2337"; 

V    V                                            '.•    v 

2438";     25(ilb; 

TIE    2156b 

TZJ^pE    2398b 

2767" 

TIE 

nbB    2744b 

"|I)£'1ZE    29321' 

E'nvB    2506b 

SWbg   2235a;  2358b 

?:2  1 

BT.E 

"'DlbE    2297b 

^'  1  709";  2860";  286  la-b 

P1T1E    2392b;  2506";  3086b 

nbB   316b;  2409b 

r.|;E    2298" 

Sr.TE    2421" 

XnbB    2398b 

5CE    24001' 

T11E    2501b;  2511" 

"nbB    2742b 

nacB  2400" 

TE    1111";  1274" 

•jbB    1148a 

HEE    1334b 

TTE    441b 

•jbB   2297a 

nCE    962b;  1323b 

HE    1441"-  b;      2408"; 

tiJE    see  I3vB 

nCE    889";  2256" 

2819" 

t                      ' 

nujB    see  niL2"l"E 

npE    2255";  2365b 

ins    1102";  2856" 

^•g^B    2236b;  2358b 

TOE    1823b 

nnB    569";  1289b;  1969b; 
2G81a;     2986b; 

^bs    2399a 

b^DB    58  lb;  2512b 

2987a 

bK^bE    2236b;  2358b 

}CE    2255" 

EllE    671b;  672" 

n^ubB  1 

bCE    2512b 

rns    1146a;  2401b;  2681b 

in^tpbE  r 

bPE    581b;  1450";  2512b 

I'D  nriE    474b;  2207a 

nibai 

..^.,._.:  , 

rpns  H46a 

V  :    2296b 

n^xbs  J 

V  "•     '  !209?' 

rntps    709";  2856b;  2857" 

tjibfi  i 

HECE    2401b 

TIES    2861";  2862a 

•^bE    1148a 

r—r  ' 

E^BE    518b;  1325b 

t2bB  . 

^/  '2207" 

T^)2453. 

b^pE    755a 

"li^E    2319b 

rntjB/ 

^jbB    859b 

"'J'E    set;  ^2?E 

nOZT^E    2366";  2394  b 

bbE    2208a 

b^E    1968">b;  3105b 

"PE    1825" 

n^bbE    2296b 

byE    817";  1221";  1968b 

in"1?!  "'B    2396" 

^9«:bB 

nSJE    3063a 

bb^B    2366a 

"iD3?E  sec  'D  rib^n 

T^B    2358b 

Hbb->E  1 

lobfl 

D"E  1 

:*,     2247a 

'•'  v  ' 

"  [l60a;  2200";  3083b 

^??5  ' 

D5B   379b;  2701b 

nttrg  i 

rra^B  674b 

niSbB    1102a;  1423s 

1H7B    432" 

OHpB    768b;  1421";  2385b 

ttJbE    449» 

^nyE  2206- 

INDEX  OF  IIKBRKW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


nSE    517b;  2154b 

n^^E    see  "l^E 

xSttPE    2358" 

n-p+E  inoa 

yns  2533b 

n*rir  i 

T         * 

1 

'      "    581b 

nb?B    2SG4a 

TT"E    763b 

T  • 

*•    • 

-  \  • 

fSB    see  f^E  Z^n 

rp'lE    1336";  3047" 

"ihr.E    2358" 

IpE    210";    G80";     G88a; 

NntJr-JE    2248" 

nPE    517b;  2196b 

1968-      2200";                    - 
2205b 

nr.E    869";  1175b;  1435"; 

C7?    2032";  303S" 

2196" 

1  i^if1     SCC      i  '  ixi- 

("pnr^  ''35S" 

~"pE    595";    7G9";    21X0"; 

C""E    2202" 

TIE 

305S" 

C^E    2032";  2329";  2335" 

Tip?    2296'' 

nC")E    667" 

TE  -1125";  279S" 

^    2434b 

^C^E    2335" 

bi^TiE    2856" 

'K^1 

y^S    ;uo-  1055b;  2111" 

npE    2295" 

3-"nE    1907"-b 

r,Tr.E    2798" 

npE    30S9" 

~r"1E    1055b 

5TE    512b;    513";    lS19b; 
2590" 

rTrip.E    229G" 

PC'nS    2359" 

VnbnE  760" 

"PpE    1289b;      1852a<b; 
2  ISO";  3134b 

"•}En   nynE    2359b 

ChE    2401" 

rpE    128Gb;   1S15" 

rc:  nb-'E  i 

'  [2360" 

•jr.E    55";     2S6";    2737b; 

"zz  !™ii?ns  j 

273S" 

nyps    935b;  12SGb 

rr-;,?    lllS";224S";2365b 

oinr.E  2263" 

"IE  1 

'    546" 

r.r^S    23G01';  2400" 

•'CnrE    2263" 

IE  J 

' 

IE-IS    316";  2365b                                  P^E    517 

SIB] 

"^    287" 

yns    517";   695";    1143"; 

nls 

1968" 

^ 

nsr,E  see  srx's 

}*7!E    514";  1173";  2320" 

M^^t            _         ^       —  ^».w 
T                                                       T 

CSr.E    2400" 

^•}E    2365" 

•pX?    see  T,«S 

i      .  -      1   ,-*.-.  »  _ 

Q^r-iS    2320" 

bXU    1931b 

224  /" 

T    ' 

TinE  J 

p?5    517";  525";  2541" 

)^}583b;  584".";  1822b; 

"pE    31Gb;  27441' 

p^E    762' 

•(1X2  I      2756";  275S" 

n-^.E    2093b 

TIE    74lr' 

X2»2    1542" 

CTlE    89Gb;  1132";  2199"; 

TEHE    614";    859";    1  147b; 

^    1106";       1905"."; 

2246";     224S"; 

2846b 

1906a;     1907"; 

283  lb 

TIPS    2032";  2X54" 

2999b 

nnB    734";  1367";  1799"; 

li'^E    SS21"  2320" 

„    254b;  1254b;  1264"; 

2247" 

V    V 

N^        1267";     1433"; 

rns  see  xns 

Tins    1423"'";  2032b 

r,X3S        1919";     2188h; 

»"TnE  l 

srn;cnE  2251" 

2742";  314Sb 

^    M2323";  2712" 

n^E    897b;   103S" 

D-^as 

jTnn    2255" 

SP.nE    2154" 

D^hS   3134" 

D^inE    2255" 

TSE    1069" 

D-:a?J 

___..;_.    ,5.)  .-.-., 

nni    132b;  2875" 

"CnE    2237b;  2423";  24251' 

:  *    ""' 

"I^B    see  "12"1!!? 

nTE    340";  2179" 

nn'2    see  H312 

nnE    3001";  3049" 
"pnE    3049b 

"TTE    2798";  3006" 
r.CE    1118";  1894" 

?iaa    1443b 
Mas    2597";  3085" 

•'•TIB  2323s 

nrrs  ins-  3000" 

"3S    144";  817".b;  1179"; 
1235b;     3155b; 

nnB    517b;  1120" 

[  |l393b;   1436" 

3156a 

n^E    1120b;  3050" 

nns 

S^n$   3148b 

"'XriE    see  TlE 

!2nE    594a 

n^5¥   3148b 

cars  896b 

11B    1278b 

nnE   99b;    816";    2712a; 

n^3¥   817a-b;  1179";  2597" 

S'l''"!?    see  HTHE 

2798" 

DiaS   see   '2  rn2E 

INDEX  OF  HKHRKW  AXI)  AKAM.MC   WORDS 


3489 


3?3S    1444" 

npis  3i5ob 

nnbs  2237'- 

"5S    S83b 

PS    1120";  27001- 

r-nbs  70  11-;  2237'- 

•jirilS    H43b;  31  is1' 

p-S    130" 

rn'32    504";  854'' 

C^hs    1443b 

288b;1098b;  113(5"-'-; 

bbs    510b;   1907b 

"IDS    1350b 

TS        1254b;     12(54'-; 

15(59'-;     2189"; 

TE-:.S    1348" 

T1S    528" 

^        259(5";     2850"; 

C*S    1  15b;    140';     1109b; 

"IS    1880" 

3140'-;  3159" 

1130";      12(54'-; 

"I~S    3140'' 

n.iS    s(>(>  IS 

1450";      1452"; 

1454";  27001- 

rns    i;i7()i. 

1;1S    see   1X^ 

r.rbs    3131'' 

rns  see  rrns 

"?]S    113°!l 

r-rbs    2740" 

p*nS    3129'- 

P;S    see  "IX^S 

nricbs  3i3i!> 

C^S    3149" 

bx^nis  3159" 

"S'cbs    3133b 

p^'S    12(54'-;  12G7b;  1858"; 

•H'tTi-nS    3159'- 

"'~S    1323b 

2591";     2795"; 

ns  070" 

3129'- 

sns  ^  •  >  sn^s 

ybS    G4b;  2590";  3142b 

p~S    1207'-;  17821';  3129'- 

nns  2247b 

"'^1417";    591b;    18(ilb; 

p^S    1781b;  1782b;2591" 

"riTlS    2247b 

"fbs  I      2590" 

np~S    17X1  '•;  2073";  2591"; 

: 

2"S    31311' 

2(58  lb 

pns    1108b;1317";  1493b; 
1843'-;  2072b 

inpbs  3H3" 

-pp-SJ 

phS    1843b;  2703" 

nsbs    3143" 

"ID'S    3154b 

bsbs    1907'-;  1908'-;  2095"; 

*nS    2132'- 

"ins   287";  070" 

2097";  2101" 

inS    2049";  2155"  ;  2200'' 

nS    1548".  b;    2774"; 
2775'-;     3070"; 

pbS    3143" 

T'SS   3149b 

IS) 
\    2434b 

3084" 

CS    see  =is 

TS    1440";  30471' 

Srs    2595b;  2973" 

nxis  i 

'  .      1110b 

'    '   "    3047b 

XrS    2973" 

nxs  J 

n"7SJ 

"!T2S   38";     287'-;      724b; 

"1X*S 

r-^S  1 

3127" 

»  - 

.-     2785" 

*ns 

TOS    1320b;  1907b;  3047" 

.-.V     2129" 

r^S    400";    831'-;    15481-; 

p*T2S    528";    071";    1123"; 

1  ~ 

3084'- 

2527" 

11X^> 

l^S    2988b 

HISS    513b 

X11S- 

l^S   3150b 

-i^^  \ 

nniS    1325";  3154b 

xnisi 

r  [512b;  513";  733" 

nns. 

3149* 

KnsJ 

C^S    2595b 

"IIS   3047'- 

''TS    582b;  2(597" 

"IT2S    31041' 

niS   210";  1127";  220()b; 

"llPS   3152b 

"'"I'SS    3143" 

2201";  3150'- 

nrns  695b 

wl^S   see  *^S 

C^pS   3143- 

CIS    1099" 

ps 

'      1120'-;  2408";  3153" 

"•;,/££    513h;  1390" 

cisi 

fS 

n'gs  709b 

.      1103" 

ns'S  H20'- 

DSJ 

]S    3000";  3150"'  '• 

PS-'S    128";  114(5'-;  H)07"; 

^'IS   3158b 

291  7b 

]S   2974b 

SIS   2227" 

TCp^S    see  ^~pS 

s;si 

fsee   ifisS 

ais 

"I^S    115°;  1430";  2207".b 

n:s  J 

''SIS   315Gb;  3158b;  3159" 

bS   2745b 

H2S    252b;     253";     728b; 

s^s. 

"bS    3149a 

1110";     1419"; 

nsiS   3156b 

nbsi 

27871' 

•               ^ 

."     517b;  078b;  2027b 

"I12S    1435b;1009";3074b; 

S  "S    see  S^IS 

n*s  J 

3075" 

3490 


INDEX 

OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC 

WORDS 

r 



r^1 

nrs2  3i46a 

rrrapi  , 

'*  [297  !h 

n1spsJ,'-  H797";  1942" 

1*2 

1*2    sec  1    2 

i  -:    -    - 

-pi^ 

.'--.. 

"!"P    762" 

*    '*\ 

.tl'f"t    3149:> 

n™p  582" 

ri:2  VS41";  S7S'-;  13431' 

-'r'p'1-? 

.1- 

i-i 

2^1~P    1813b 

"1?'.64l1;     136";      i)44h; 

"2    sec  1^12 

-/;         137()b;  2864" 

Tin-p    35";     132b;     1264b; 

' 

1403b;     1596b; 

3:2    841";  1343b;  20671' 

^2    31461' 

CnR        2078b;  2661".'' 

r:2:2    2423" 

-'i1 
.     Mll9b;  303()b 

n~p    2860"  -b 

rP,n:2    3075" 

"112. 

nrnp  78";  1107'' 

-.•..*      -oo 

n«»  ' 

'-•    °-JL> 

•k    . 

:     31101' 

•tl;>1~|x    2661" 

-"2    2206" 

r'~""'.t  ; 

~~P    160";  S8Sb;  2438'' 

n~72    15781';  1865" 

n-2    (>4b;  161  lb;  3()10b 

Dip  'l30b;    888b;    1041"; 

H72    10521' 

"^1^,2    3  14^' 

1141";     1789"; 

?.iy$    3047" 

n7"n2    3147b 

"r  \\+        1790"'b;  3042'' 

IT?    3131b 

""™)377b;    528";    2856"; 

2"pT:  2438" 

"7-2    3153" 

ihsJ    ;^47'' 

n-Qip  100" 

nil--"-;  1 

1-121 

nplp   see  Dip 

*"    3128" 

^    381":  3147b 

. 

D"1;?.?   j 

"^^.2  > 

"WjBjlSla;     113Gb;     17S9H. 

P"2    764b;  1490b 

"^    14221' 

^:icip  1    202(i'J 

"172    3154" 

ri7"^2    1422'1 

ni'cip  i790b 

HE2    3074" 

n7-;2    1422'1;  3132'1;  3157" 

bx^lp.    1789" 

•22 

•rr-'2    3157" 

^:rip  see  ^:i^"ip 

1  |3  146" 

r7^2    1422b;  1867";  ISdv 

ipip    762";  1348";  2263a 

liS2] 
1  .  *     2155";  3132" 
•22  J 

r-2    1141b;  1275";2506b; 
2545" 

lip    1798" 
lip    1790" 

^lES   3146b 

-2-12    3132h 

•pVjp    1798" 

•     '„ 

"2    64b;     944b;     2s(i4"; 

pr^-^    4^.-^ 

ill43a-  ^S'-'S'1'  31  •">'"' 

3049" 

il- 

1221 

r,n22  764" 

rnS    3133";  3147b 
IHTSn  P72    3133";  3147b 

TTlp    816b;  818";  1323".''; 
1408b;     2G81b; 

2682" 

1^22    31521' 

•P-12    3132b;  3133" 

ffilp    17901' 

:T22    2127";  3157" 

TTIp    326b;1403b;1405"'h; 

PTPE2    841";  869" 

|> 

1596b;     2GS(ib; 

T 

I 

2758b 

122    1006";  1389";  21  55"; 

N  ,^  , 

271  lb 

'    1559b;  2297" 

TlJIp    703";  1132b;  1788h; 

.•rv           lir-v- 

^*i"^ 

1789";     1971b; 

vr  '»•'*'           T 

rsp    2297";  2697" 

2007b;  2821b 

1    938a;  3144" 

np.    1788" 

U31p    see  ti"IJ5 

1<  IT?5? 

rap.  2013" 

y:i3  Tlhp    1788b 

2  r:E2    20S9b;  3132" 

rap    432";  2013" 

mrip    746b;  1339b;  2211"; 

"?t    55";      411";      672b; 
^:;?E2  J      2737b;  2738" 

nnp    S9b;  2293";  3149'- 

2682";  2821'' 
nnp    899" 

r?2    612";  2295" 

[  '287b;  2524" 

bnp  651" 

-2222    30S51' 
"122    1143";  1249" 

b3p    612b;  613b 

bnp    132b;     653h;     700b; 
701" 

"IB2    1143" 

P"3p    oil1';  875b 

nbnp    894b;  1816b;  2433"; 

1E2    see  "lifi? 

1*2P    1177b;  1350b;  2415b 

2649b 

y1!")?^    1147";  2404" 

bX2^p    1788" 

nrbnp  1791" 

nnE2    2774";  3152b 

"I5P    532" 

rnp  isiG" 

T^S?    2111" 

rrop  see  nv^jx 

Tinj3    1816" 

INDEX  OF  1IKBKKW  AND  ARAMAIC  WOKDS 


3491 


>2016";  2044b;  3080" 


iPP    179  L'1 

PP   271()b;  2S70b;  2982b 


p    2710b;  2870" 


-P,Eip 


304(5" 


see 
•pp.    53Sb;  1789b 

nrp    179Sb; 1824°;  1836"; 
24 13-;  31451' 

1799° 


IP    494-;  213*b 
S:pr    955-;  2797b 

s:p  533- 

X2£    1264b;   12671' 
•$;p    955";  1267b;  1572b 

n:p  328-;  533";  53Sb; 
583b;  1221"; 
1789b;  2117"; 
2422b;  2506"; 
2872b 


:p  379b;  513'>;  544-; 
548b;  201G-; 
254  4  "•'';  2545"; 


r^ip  253b 

IVp^p    12861'                                                                27801';     2S471'; 

nip    22(i3b 

^p    171b;   302";    1167-                                 3079" 

1  8  1  Ob"      1971'" 

Tip    179  lb;  3032" 

Hip    2016" 

'^        19801';     2()07:'; 

i-T;p    17<)  I'1 

trp    130Gh;  2870" 

n'VpJ      272()b;  3001- 

"j^Ip    122  1  ';  1279b;  259()b 

.  .      fl053-;1094";lS92b; 

tUTI  "T'p  1 

^Pl      2154b;     2293b; 

'  [302-;  1811- 

rr^n  -pp  J 

')''52ip    65(5- 

«bl      2309";     2476"; 

n.ip  179  ib 

1         2977-    . 

c'-pp  1 

1            4-t  \j  t    i 

.  ^    1793'' 

CCp    1964" 

rrbip  isi6b 

^np. 

-     1   T 

T     T          | 

Cip    94  Jb;  2461-  ;  2527- 

rip  1813- 

CCp    862-;  I'.Kil1';  30971' 

npip    1369-  ;  2850" 

•jiUJip    1813- 

n,Cp    1322-  ;   1  169b 

^p    728b;  2117" 

iTpip    1813- 

nbiyp  1791- 

'•—••~      1<K(i:i 

rip    181()b;  181(i-                                     'p.    ITS!)1' 

*   Y'-*.  ['-         ^-  >^OvJ 

•    •                        L  ' 

rrrp  595-;  s.j4b;  24os» 

rip]                                         -P  see  x'p 

160b 

Dpi 

n'5p    4  11-;  100G-;  22171' 

rp  sec  r~p 

1 

fip    6b;  2870- 

•jV5p3T    700b;  2748- 

SEP    7(5(5'- 

r;iPJ33b;      734-;      943"; 
•jrp  J      1321b;  2974b 

nn?p  541- 

i'ip    1789b 

"iEp    2422- 

1;Sp  [484-;   485-;    1367"; 
.            2121";     2422-; 

n^lp    1907--  b 

rrbp  17911- 

)EP  i      2697" 

"'p    849-;  2S401' 

Xtpibp    17911' 

nsp    260-  ;  13(>7";  213s1'; 

nnip  i 

J  :     417";   1167b;    1437- 

xbp    100(5";  1349";  1892b 

2422-;     2(597"; 
2736b;    2737--b; 

nbbp    767" 

2738- 

rrt^p  1818- 

Cbp    2072'1 

V£p    2422- 

n::]?    2403- 

nc'|p    2072b 

fP   504-  ;  1467" 

nnitip    1446b;   2639-'  b 

ybp    581b 

rp  scc  r"p 

nyjp    1793b 

ybp    1335b;  2889- 

-^P    510'' 

"^~    25°- 

nip    271(ib 

flip    llllb 

1  1- 

•n^l 

ptibp    113(5" 

nip    503b;     522-;     523-; 

^}l321» 

n'Cp    284  7b 

*T       899";       1147"; 
'  ^i<        1467-  ;  27SO" 

1  T 

-y..--     17(111) 

rt?p    760b 

^  tS     '—  Jx       1  t  .  '  1 

nip  2513" 

"•y^-~     i  T^fih 

Tulp    1446b;  232  lb 
112p    144Gb 

t  i  '^  l>     -i  <  i  >  t  ' 

'irjir:p  } 

..      ^  f214()-;  2974b 

Hip.    11  17-;  1123- 

•jiip    569-;  1308b;  21541'; 
2(»26" 

"pltpp    1814" 

rrcp.  mi-;  1122- 

nyiip    582";  1797" 

n^bp    lllb;2321b;2G39"'b; 
2840" 

"J'Cp    3114- 

fip    940b;  1797- 
"|iip    513b;  1341'1;  29S2b 

nap  1790- 

"p2p    1334b 

|T 

T      1  - 

Tipr    1121";  1145'1 

i*l^^>      1  '"ViO^ 

"iri2p    2140" 

"^m     .^i  ah-    i  1  -)i  a. 

510b;  1121' 
3K5'1;  2415b 
"lip    2093b;  2534a;  2780" 

1p    see  "l"p 
ip    673b 

S^p  459a;  593b;  764b; 
1308b;  1336b; 
2112";  2433"; 
2534" 

181 8-;  2254- 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AXD  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


anp    1334";  2126";  2639"                   TOp    655";  1306";  1337";  T                 nan   333";   334":    1350": 

anp    746-  1490";  2510- 

1354";  2854"                                            1907b 

2947" 

nrp  1338" 

~an    2520";  2522" 

anp  see  a*np 

l^tp    1813" 

iani 

ia";p    709";  1059";   1864- 

nt2^trp    1793";     2076"-"; 

x;n,)2157";  2159" 

2177";     2396"; 

2394";  2395" 

2639"-";  2044" 

p^j..;..-,    o-ni:i 

a^a"^  278i" 

C^np    341" 

'  v   Iv  ,    1  - 

T'S'l    589";  2129" 

",t'p    474";    (>99";    1968"; 

nnp    133";  210-  417" 

3007" 

p.^an  2522" 

n;p  see  n-rp 

niTp    699";  3007" 

nban  2590" 

3'1"l!l  1  {){)'';    1334";    1810- 

n»i?    252";  2527" 

r^'an  1962";  2522" 

l'-p  j      2126";  2132" 

C^C'nn    2522" 

n"J704";  1147";  1446"; 

1 

ran  ii83b 

rrpJ      2860"." 

HSn    65";      208";      477"; 

yan  ii42" 

nnp    1816";   1817" 

85  1";  997";  1068"; 
1234";      1267"; 

ran    2079";  2534b 

nnp  1790" 

2027";     2411-; 

fan  723" 

nnn^  l 

2581";  2921" 

npan  2534" 

'380" 

nx'-l    1308";  1341";  2459"; 

'                                 LJ"1"!     V  •"»'''"> 

r      :i. 

25X1";  2713" 

*n"p  1817" 

•a^Sss-)    2572" 

arn  669" 

--    705" 

•^:aisn  2573" 

T:n    1145" 

nxmp  243:;- 

rnrsr,  2573" 

TJH    2154" 

•"C^-P    062-  665";  1X1  1"                          itfn    ^79" 

^3"3    376";  1248";  2710- 

T: 

2814" 

rrnp  1765";  1793" 

n^xn  2534" 

ntrri  r.—p  isii" 

^"3    523";  1121";  1125"; 
1344";     1865"; 

-T""!'p    1811" 

c^s^      oo    J  .  '  _«>84a; 

2257" 

r-^  n:-;p| 

-i-l''      25X9";      3037"; 

a^fn  2597" 

n'^"  n^npJ 

30X4";  3156" 

crn  2910" 

-^--p^^  . 

nrn  2510" 

J^  ';    ^   813b;  1812" 

™^70^b;2529«;2860*;                     ,„   2Q94b 

r,i2sn-    ^>»)iu 

-•-—  .,  —  ,h 

*."n    860" 

r^n    3S2";     569";     606";                       _I  T 

"7P    1131";  1322";  1392";                                    ()91";  897";  1113"; 

yjn  2076a 

1422";     1756-                                   1127";     1318"; 

izj'n  i 

2095";  2097"                                             1390"-";  2  100- 
^Enpp    1793"                                                             2415";     2441"; 

'491" 

nrro.  J 

2451";     2623": 

~"n    2626" 

cnj5    065" 

2982";     3024"; 
3025" 

^n    2524" 

^. 

H7xn  ] 

"I^n   3047" 

ynp    670" 

}l!66" 

ujini 

2-n    282";  2817" 

•»>V*                  1"»"|^ 

"in  1121" 

"np    2524" 

lir1^  j    see   LJ    j 

•    •       , 

ann  287  1" 

y^r-    •">]°i>;  1«5";  1790" 

11U-N  i;  1113";  1127";113()"; 

•iirsn  i    1607" 

ann  2525" 

npnp  1790" 

_ 

Cnp    434";  491" 

•^irsn  130" 

•fl!67";  1320";  1437a 

npnp  1790" 

n^tJ^n    426";  606";  1113"-"; 

•j^nn  J 

1200";  2453" 

in  ii36" 

•jpnp    1790" 

an    17";     569";     1294- 

ain    see  a"1"! 

t;p    2866";  2X67" 
NCP    765";  1122" 

1307";     1569"; 
1981";     2522"; 

nin  2545b 

2775" 

Hii    880" 

at'p    328" 

aan  1981"                             narrni 

rOTTp    1117";  2425" 

naan  2159" 

'"'      J2597" 

Hipp    1337";  1338" 

"an  2909" 

nin    952";   1306b 

INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


3493 


nT? 


68b;88b;486";518"; 
708a;  724b;  973"; 
1074";  1253b; 
1350b;  1351"; 
1406h;  1474"; 
1888";  1918"; 
2056";  2496b; 
2497";  2515"'b; 
2562b;  2563"; 
2818";  2837"; 
2838";  2841"; 
3085b 

518";  70!)";  1049b; 
1232b;  1369"; 
2527b 


764b 


Ern  492";  511";  695"; 
2402";  2525b; 
2947" 


iTZ")    419";    547b;    1423b; 
2093b;  2875b 


nn    492";  511";  2453" 


^r'Cnn  2402" 

}Tn  412b;  415";  30721' 

fnn  3073b 

ttrn  494b;  1467" 

rnn  27sob 

BEEH  1145b 

606";  706";  2522b 


see  TZTD^ 
Bn    see  E$n 

En    25Sb;  1569b;  213Sb; 
2527b 

VET    454b;  1390';  25271' 
El    3109" 


•r^  [2417h;2557b;2593b; 
2594" 


1    1591";  2528b;  2529" 


fin    1307b;  2379b;  2423" 

"  ![1569b;  1593";  240S1- 

nn  J    2535" 

25:  nian  j 
m?h  252" 

TlJin    2420";  2426b 

•^ain  2590" 

n^n  2529" 

ffiin    see  CSn 

n^n    2700b;  2701  b;  2Sks» 

rprn  1309" 

r,in  2627" 

B^n    see  EX-) 

TfEn    547b;    54<S";    1424"; 

T  [404b;  2105" 

?*n  see  rn 

1  9!S5" 

sn 

-irin  i 

in^brn    2557" 

nn  io97b 

'   T    '[1307" 

E^n    1049b;  2594";  3109a 

•in  2588b 

'  ^  ; 

l^Gn    see  "pT£n 

"in    2454" 

^'   ^   851";  2594b 

fnE  V'Sn    2594" 

^n    2399b 

^ 

^^   -.^..,, 

pn.    94  lb 

"  * 

=rn  3088b 

pni 

TUlin    743b 

"Tn    2454";  2626";  30491' 

941b;  1106";  2523" 

rT52n    2557" 

ann  517" 

^  •• 

_.^_    _-.._ 

Epn.    94  11' 

"  '    -,„•",,'    f2529a 

nnni 

>>  "^     j 

1    523";  2550b 

n^n    676";  2846" 

ainnj 

tij-n 

^  .r^"^i2529a 

anh    517";  523" 

mn    1348» 

^P'Cn    2529" 

ann  i88ib;  2144";  2525° 

tin. 

-i-^4  i 

niann  1  1  _ 

Tin    487b;  l<S6lb;  2947" 

n,p^T}2528« 

nhnn  1  z 

Tjh    2947" 

^nb  n^?n  2528" 

:  |2550b 

a?n    2947" 

in  see  inn  n^a 

in^ann  J 

aan  595" 

nsn  1098" 

c?ann  2551" 

a;n  2535b 

nsn    764b;  1755";  2594b 

nann  see  n"nhn 

TCn    2535b;  2536" 

"s*l    7G41' 

nnn  2052" 

aisn  604" 

•:n    1278b 

2inn  see  ann 

^D"])l202";  1279";259()b; 

ncn  2594b 

Binn    2552b;  2553" 

tb",  1      2SC>S" 

"Cn    482b;  483";  2561" 

pinni 

T  [1097b 

Tf?n    1086b;  20751' 

CCn    2929" 

bDn    687b;  2427b;   3002" 

yn    64b;      540b;     748"; 

1041b;      1042b; 

irnn  ii67h 

bpn    2523'' 

1043"  b;     1354"; 

bnn    1049";  2523b;  2524" 
Enn    18";    695";    2035b; 

n'5Sn   2035"  ;  3002";  3004b; 
3005" 

1442";     2122b; 
2155";     2798h; 
3083b;    see  also 

2402" 

^3"?    548";  1221" 

nrn 

3494 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


r~!  1  1022";  1106a;  1934a;              CPT5n   2560b 

onii 

yi-|!      2132b;  2553a                          rPDI   2559b 

v.v    525";   672";    1781a 

nri  J 

3H    2122b;  30S4a 

n-lbsi   2774b 

n^nn  2595" 

n"n    l()97b 

tSEI    1141b 

n"7    1097";   1410" 

nsn  2847b 

12J  and  -j; 

•pn"";    1097" 

f"!    2076b;  2395a 

nXTlJ    873b 

rnrn  1102" 

S2Tn    966b 

blXt,'   27";      974b;      992b; 

njn    523";     584";     63  lb; 

nsn    27b;      32  la;      S20a; 

LU           1370b;     1905b; 

13751';     2258";                                    2094a;     2536b;                     ^^       2401b;  2761a 

2763";     2X25"; 
2921b;    see  also 

2987tt 
•ilS1!   27b;     820b;     1102a; 

^XTIJ   2677";2697b;2751a; 
2790" 

.•VJ^      1292a;     2408b;  ,              iblXEJ   ^697b 

!"!"")    1146" 

»*        2716b;  3085a 

. 

nrn  1106";  2x2.1" 

n?n    2SXb;  746b;    141Sa; 

•p^TTi    1423a;  2154" 

-•  -,    0572" 

1983b 

t2»tJ   833b 

^V*1*"*^        O~'>"'.          O  ')K 

N^l    2595a 

VV«  f2S2b;    '04b;   1305a; 

'^•'  ]    2oJ5a;  2o/3b 

l^"}    2588° 

"-•1      1472b;     1865b; 

r*;":  21127' 

bs^j]      2358a;     2761b; 

T-i    "IV}" 

52?T   2076b 

[     3096b 

''"'"I    2763" 

~lkn    67  lb;  2588a 

bXTjJ   2752a 

nS3n    67  lb;  1984b;  2292b; 

5J5TIJ    see  blXTlJ 

""C?"!    1106" 

2595" 

sbSTp    1865b 

"pT  "5    673";  896b 

TS7    523a;  526b 

nbf'-l   2093b 

pi    1438b;  1439a 

'   \".  J2358a 

•"C*?1   2445" 

p'"l    284Ga 

u   .,    LJy; 

0?"?    709";  114.5b 

2p"3    2624" 

"I  ^L1-}2752" 

w.,  '2977" 

2pn    2624  a 

IJXtJ   888b 

'''?:-  J 

"inp-1    2624a 

Tn1'*"! 

n'STp    1X62";  2237a 

Tf/  -2520" 

np^    2942b 

IS^J    2557b 

^'?<  _ 

l^.p"]    2527b 

ri^y":    2520";  2.14.  la 

Hp.n    695b;  2321b 

"I»TP    492";  1118b;  1810a; 
2122b;  2837a 

°r;-  J2520" 

Hpn    2840a;  3086" 

•^^P    1118b;  1810a 

oc^y-} 

np'l    695b;  G99a 

rnSTZJ   2758";  3043a 

]?5n   075b;  1145b 

nnp"i  699b 

2?t57  -IXTZJ    2752b 

2?in    51"b;  1042b;  1442a 

rp"!    315a'b;  3106b 

n    jXiZ/    2557a' 

16?^    700b;88S"-b 

p^P"!    516a 

PSp    849";  1050";  1867a; 

'815";   974b;    12241'; 

2594b 

1349";     2393b; 
N--l      2532b;     2.1331'; 

Dp."J   767a 
Cpn    2527b;  2553a 

Slip    2629";  27521' 

ntnl      2558";     2562b; 

nSmiJ    2(i29a 

30X3  b;    see  also 

H^pn    523";     674b;     709"; 

HE1^  ,  infra 

940a;  2534b 

nnip    569b;  1693";  2752b 

nSSI    1349";  202(>a 

Ctth    2156b 

in^    2856b;  2857" 

i_»^r^     i'}-n-i 

TTDl    698a 

bs^miJ  i 

>.  ^  .      ,o 

._"_(^.    2754b;  2781" 

bXD-1    2532b;  2559b 

yTp-l    30X4" 

-saw 

npn    766b;  1086";  1447b; 

??h   3037b 

r^ac  r 

2533";     2559b; 
2560";     see  also 

nyti"!    1  1  0  1  b  ;    3  0  8  3  b  ; 

?aOJ2982a;  3078b 

3084a  b 

nyntj  [ 

nsn  2560a 

aC1!    494b;  671b;  2561b 

nyia^   288b;  2172b 

•  lw  J     SCC    •  l*w      ] 

fltJ']    1293b 

niatei 

1     569b;  1693a 

n?n  2559b 

pir\n   589a 

rnnipj 

rrpB-i  siob 

nrn  494a-b 

nntj  2429" 

INDKX  OF  HKBHTCW  AND  AHAM A  1C  WORDS 


T23?   3010" 

TaiZJ    2745b 

THD    sec  - 

t:3TS   722";  1185";  1801"; 

sa?  2740"                                 rrr?  310";  09  1";  721" 

2590";     2701";                     ^    1()lql) 

n"?    2751" 

2702";     2847"; 

* 

3010" 

H!u?    970";   1448";    2015" 

="":"P  n".tJ    275!" 

E3?    541";  2753" 

nr<?  970" 

n^.TS    2781" 

"O?    509";  1052" 

ai.'iy  2713" 

nrnis  27si" 

•^aiS    2779" 

P<1|tp|2488"'b;      2707"; 

TIT    27S1'- 

"'aiS    2779" 

—,.•,...;  J      2910" 

rnriS  2781" 

313?  ni7" 

ba?  2513" 

•J'.TS    277-1'- 

a-np  iii7" 

bap  2513" 

•JTtS    2701" 

n^ais  509" 

"a?    1941";  1900" 

ipis  IHX;" 

_--...  i 

"TS  1 

!i;r  i 

nrrisJ2"1"1' 

__.".    517b;  2237";  2923" 

___;..__  513" 

PP3?    sec  P13? 

~W    530";  (190" 

nbVr  i 

scrap  sco  x;ac 

""iS    1311" 

nZTS  .2779";  2821a 

n;a?  599-  2uon 

""?    1200";  2840" 

iaiic  J 

bat?  1805" 

nib    724";  1280";  1307"; 

\~^.iS    2808" 

bar  i 

1820";     3084"; 

rr    2814";  3005" 

,  .    '.  f594";  1120";  2707" 

P531S  > 

^"TS            Q1c7a 

-  T         31o/" 

^577";     088";     728"; 

rttiy  2101" 

1232";      1350"; 

s^SrlD    2819" 

=?|U,      1402";      1859"; 

pbaip  513" 

^-TS    100";    145";    1129"; 

triSl      1908";     2200"; 

• 

1250";     1251"; 

2550";     2750"; 

nate 

T  .'    [2711";  2707" 

1254";      1204"; 

2911" 

1207";     2188"; 
2393";  3034a 

Clflj    1122";  1175" 

['  v.  J2753b 

-"X^-?    2750" 

"l^"ir  I  OTTO'' 

'  IT^?  J 

rp-ir  2784" 

irirJ 

""PI3TL1  1 

«.  —  «M 

i;^lTS    2782" 

'.  f2753" 

.  _i?    48(>" 

-p;3TS  J 

nr"TL'  i 

2rO    2081" 

yap    50";  424";  2804" 

'.T  "  :.|486a;  2051" 

r^:*TS  2osi" 

y3?  1  2743";  2753";  2707"; 
Hyatt  /     29S2»;  307xb 

nn~?   491";  2530" 

i 

y"?    704" 
PIS    704" 

..  '  ...           ..,-  .. 

r,TT    583";  1049";  1249"; 

-r1^   sc'e  ^'3r 

1822";      1823"; 

yit;    2590" 

nyaip  sec  pa? 

™        3155" 

yiTS    511";  1810";  2778"; 

S^yaTS    2744" 

""'?    1574" 

2781" 

f*3?    940";  3078" 

ZniS    709";  2442";  2779"; 

apt?    2781" 

•fa?  130" 

2sr,0";     2857"; 
2801";  2802" 

"^^  .1143";  1144";  2781" 

'  '.    517";  523" 

•j'lnil?   303";  744" 

^1T^  , 

na?  J 

SI?   3045" 

'.    809";  2422" 

13?    533";  1442";  1780"; 
2512" 

«"?    2751";  2700" 

T^iTS    520" 

a^ffi   340":    522":    70Ga: 

. 

-Q?J514";     523";    _737|';                                   1232";      1248"; 

:[S1TS    2779" 

--,.«''      144L-1;     L.)l'_';                                   1117";      1093"; 

"SllS    sec  l?TiS  r""":y< 

2~r)3"                                                      2538";  2558"." 

"1?"^)305";    005";    2095- 

3T.3?    2753";  2912"                              aaiC   370" 

-I2TJJ  J      2097" 

Pair   58(>";    587";    1780";                 aailS   2779" 

2629b                           aai«  370" 

p^TS    1394";       1S05"; 
2780".";  2972" 

nSTZJ    1780";  23  18";  2029";                  ^-^    „.., 

TITS   2782" 

2034";     2822";                   ?*..    ' 

2982" 

531TS    2779" 

"TCtt   583";  3155" 

"Iran    2029";  2034";  2822" 

pailS   2779" 

p"^i*TS    sec  p^TS 

3496 


JXDKX  OK  HKBRKW  AXI)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


Sfttf    2751b 

n:t:p  2813" 

n«;te   2394b;  3074" 

•Jflhtj- 

r-Jp    3072'' 

•j^P    1815b 

"jlplTZJ    1893-'1''      1985a> 

rppi 

•'^rip  1395- 

•)ru        2S72b  ' 

r-jp  J 

tj;ip    27Gob 

•spin;  J 

"Tjir    25Gb;  21SOb;  2438b; 

bpip   2813b;2868b;2921b; 

•jr'1"!'    27S2" 

3123" 

3089";  3097" 

""P'r    2783-;  2S721' 

T^'1?    2778b 

bbp    400";  439b 

n^ny  ]p-r  i 

S^P    1050" 

briri2nr)h.24S(jlJ.29111i. 

"^P'r  -2188'';  2S31" 

X^p    2751'- 

brp  I    3089- 

niTy 

"  '2708-;  2774";  2800" 

nib;p  Kee  nib;p 

pP^kJ    sec   pp'p 

]'S"1P  J 

C^b^Tp    1929b 

nbnrsj  2783- 

nn-r  O75b 

Drp    454";  2082b 

-7Tp    1891'';  3028" 

"~P    1893b;  2407'' 

nrp    1550'';     2755"; 

~np    5201' 

SjiC    277S1' 

2780"'b;       2783"; 

"nil?    520'1;   1228" 

n'p    348'-;     532";     095''; 
840";202()";27sl" 

3001" 

np;p    27SOb 

•nip  2177- 

-n-'p    2020" 

^^P    27501' 

nnp  25871-;  3HO-                     -^rntn 

•J3TD   883b;  2758'' 

'  1  1843'';  2072'';  2703"                   "limp  Il228b;  21451' 

•)5Tp    883b;  1468a;  2132b; 

pnp  J                                           . 

2758b 

nnt'  1 

•pnp    494-;  2405- 

n:^b  i;nip  2708" 

.    2754b 

r-np  587- 

^n^rziL* 

"''P    2774";  2775b 

"'-IB 

XI_IL,'    189oa'  ' 

rib"1® 

'     2630" 

rb~p  2!96-'b 

.,  . 

ircJ 

rnp  2707" 

;•.!.;    276S";  2709";  2887" 

"irip    879h;  1890";  3063a 

rpnp    705-  ;   11  Osb 

ibBJJ 

XTp    2818" 

fnp    1895-;  30S3" 

M-vtJN 

"lite    1098";  1395";  15411'; 

cisne  i 

'  .,      ^l 

3003" 

._1J;  \^-W' 

^'"P  ,-27(»9" 

•"Op    879''  ;  1896";  3086b 

•     —,    - 

">:''~-lr 

13p    sec  lisp 

pnp    83  lb;  2072'' 

"•^"P    2770b 

li"l5P    2707b;  2768a 

pnp    1843h;  2S14b 

;  f819b;  1570b;  2097"; 

pnp    2S141' 

1  ^J      2413b;     2414"; 

/  '. 

phip  «ee  p;,nr 

nT'ttJ]      2187";     2830''; 

T 

5p   970b 

nnii  -t-4" 

lv     2831" 

•:X"p    888b 

_u      5* 

r~p  ]9sib 

^bp    2200" 

^mU    797'"'     799''  '     800"' 

1393-;  2082'' 

Xp^P    27771' 

ibp    1S041' 

inr  i 

pp'p  1        „ 

^V    2819b 

nin^J  ' 

pp-irJ" 

ribp  see  rib^p 

n^n^  27_S;i 

n^p    210";    259'1;    190S-; 

nbp  soo  nbsp 

1  1 

1985'1 

*  . 

=^np    274G1' 

n^P   29741' 

nnnpp    1117b;  3046b 

nnp  2837" 

"P    2439";  2974'' 

ibipl 

N  ,V     2512a 

r.np  noib 

a?C    2S04b;  2817- 

l-lp^pj 

nnp    722b;  14401';  240  lb 

nnpp  5SO" 

ibp  see  rib-ip 

n::ip  1248" 

IDtp    2711--1' 

^'.    970b 

'-i'  '.  J27";  2778'- 

biSTp    1929b 

M^ 

.    880";  287G1' 

•L'-I      1305";     13*50"; 

•jpiij  2704" 

"13p  J 

Cblp  [     2293" 

•j'jTp   64b;  1343'';  2093b 

n;tj  l 

DlbttJl 

fCW    64  b;  2G93b 

;;.  ii32b 

,  ".    2747a 

INDKX  OK  HKHREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WOKDS 


3497 


rp'nibp  see  rnabip 

•pbP   2747b 

mnbto 

^  :^\   2758b 

nb^ip  2074b 

•<'-rp    2003b 

••  ^  •  ^ 

^•^  •*"•*.•• 

TLlxU 

•    1      /<•  ^  — 

Crip'    833";   10501' 

pbp 

rv^ibTp'I  ' 

P^12Tp    1900"-1';       1907"; 

np'ibp'  9/tl 

l^btt)    2747b 

2415b;  2840b 

mp'bij 

"ICSJ'Qbp    2747b 

•(ttlp    1985b 

wb«j  see  nbp 

^U'bip  see  "t:i~'ip 

]T2P'     1101b;2181b;218:i"; 

2399";  2639"  '• 

nblP    210";  522b;  2721" 

rbp    2759" 

•"I'rr  i 

nbp    2721";  2790" 

P5P    2759" 

a^.;^.;'lllL>'' 

HDP    2662";  2758>>;  2899b 

Pbp  see  tnbp 

"^p"  f^QPJ    526b;    851";    1088"; 

^'£  1  1609b;  2721";  2758b; 

mp'^p    2769" 

2112";     2117"; 

nbp  I      2791a 

~L,'"P    ''746h 

2154b;     2175"; 

"  '•'. 

•  •  « 

2793";     2795b; 

1H5P    27G8b 

mp'bp'    see  CibtJ 

2877b;     2923b; 

D^nbp    27G8b 

cipbp  i 

3110" 

'    . 

.    '  '.    1375b 

»..,,„;      ,~-f,i 

~n5p   27G7b;     2898"-  b 

ZiP5TP  J 

*  7f  uJ    2i  59" 

125  BJ    89Gb 

birnbp  see  bx^bso 

712P    520b;   1094" 

ttbp    2008" 

CP    411";  1094";  1253b; 

>"CP    1094" 

•jbp    262Gb 

2112";  2759" 

r^p'    2759b 

•p^bp1) 

X72Tp    5351' 

"12P    2748" 

.^  1 

"inX^TT    2760b 

nrrp  27(i«f 

1  ;.f 

nsrp    2709" 

nrrp  2759b 

•^    see  Ibp 

bixfcir  i 

u  .     .-sfl333b;   1864b 

]TT^nS    2770b;2793";2794a; 

2795b 

trbP    569";  1289b;  2626" 

r  '~^  ' 

^'pp    2770" 

TlhbttJ'j2S8b;    569";    1136"; 

C"  "•* 

r^yrr:  ) 

TJJ"lbiy  L     1484  —     2  0  1  6  "  ; 

>Xcy    1804' 

'  :.  ^2759b 

,  •  f     2095";     2097- 

"IS'STP    2748b 

in^'apj 

IPblPj      2790" 

• 

"IT2TP    283" 

nr'pp    2709" 

.    5.1Zp    29/3" 

HTTP    see  D^BP 

WEP    2709" 

:fblB    484b;  720h 

~  •                •  *  • 

bslTaip    2077";  2678b;  2701a 

"11210    97'-;    1367";    1791a; 

r.rbTP    2747a 
5513    2439" 
EblC    943";  2293" 

y?i^2P    27491' 
nr'-CTp    8GGb;  1094" 

2177b;  3074" 

TCP    S75b;  2760b;  2709a; 
3087b 

n'aip  1098" 

^,T2»    2256b 

*";  :. 

n72ip    G00b;   1755" 

^,rip  see  "I'aip 

"5TP    551b;  2639" 

nrrcip  1755- 

nn'cp'  3074" 

2?P    2320b;  2063";  2740b 

•J^P    2556b 

"pTQTP   2771" 

D'blP    see  w'bp 

na^p    2556'-;  2635" 

pTDiS   2671";  2672b;  2760b 

C3P    2768b 

•TSTP    2749b 

]i"TQP| 

=2P    see  D'.b?J 

rpiytt)  27(>ob 

•j'lXnp   }2"la 

X-fiV    2663b 

n?^Tp    2625b 

^TCP    27701' 

npblP    876";  2(563b 

Q1W    493";   887";    1352'1; 

T  :  ~  :   y  '?7*ini' 

nb'bV   2822" 

n-GC        ^  33b;  2814b 

«   r  w  /  DU 

]i^biP    2663'' 

pir-2p'    2090-  24S81' 

r-rr.T21p    see  r^n^P 

nitbp    2759" 

"PISTp   54a;    2749";    2858b; 

ri-^P    2709-  2771" 

2800";     2802"; 

•''a^Tp    2G(53b 

2974b 

•'jhpiP   2G73b 

^'bp   2759" 

P:ia"l'1'QTP  1 
.      '    '  '.    2761" 

rn'Gp   2770b 

•^P   27G8b 

mn  iipip 

P12P   301b;    590b;    1376b; 

^^•Qbp    2759";  2761" 

nb'CP    422";     669";     870"; 
1147";  2917b 

2075";     2771a; 
3082" 

3498 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


ljiTlJ'53Tp    2675" 

"I?BJ    416";  1175b;  1325b; 

<»—  'ly     o   ,    41  1 

iVVV   2675b;  2771" 

1607b;     2()62b; 
2758";     2769"; 

5BT&    411" 

^ITpTQlp    2749b 

2986";  3045b 

nbElZJ    381b;     411";     724b; 

T>BTp    2781b 

iri!?    set>  "T^J'TP 

1763";     1934b; 

IIP    737";  1127b;  1544b; 
1622";     2761a; 
3000b 

^J375'>;  1320";  1423" 

2197";     2209"; 
2220";     2227a; 
237  7b;    2407"; 
2762";  3045" 

«:«    944b;  1343b 

T^iP  seenyinj 

EE1P    403";  418";  1896a 

x:i27  see  n:ip 

nnyir  2929'- 

2EUJ    2749b 

2X;i27    2771" 

nni^ip] 

ni'QEir  2806" 

"IS»:C   2761" 

1  .  .'  Uo5a;  1122";  2721" 

1ETP    3()07b 
•jETp    69Sb;  1339";  2596b; 

n;»  (Pi:tp>    542";    870b;    1756- 

"ii"i? 

2749b 

2634b;     2635- 

„  .-^ 

7211?    17b 

2904b;     2961"; 

n"  ij/iD 

'. 

2982".  b;     3024b; 

. 
n^T^lIPlU  ^1423° 

^2/211?    2774" 

3025";  3126" 

-^^....j 

pElP    sco  pED 

n:ip    3126" 

n^Ji   2752b 

"IE  127    1278b 

n:c  i 

,     :  -     : 

lEli1   2763" 

*  .  [2817" 

D"^"!"!!1    2745" 

x:i27J 

j_,-,n^^..:.j;  , 

"lETP    see  lEllZJ 

D^n:e  i544b 

'   rn^r;}S(>on"1'1"l-<^ 

rnsip  ii75b 

•^Ip    884";  2701b;  3109" 

ratcrc  2745'- 

niE117    2774" 

•W    296  lb 

yi^yffi  7s^a  •  s*>(  ii} 

_  Y    i     -                       J     OAfU 

"IIISp    2293";  2624b 

T5»l 
1  [2720";  2761" 

nBTPl382»;     383";     504- 

nETC   943b;  1419a 

•  ,  [>      522";  523";  S99:i> 

pip    1865" 

n?VJ      1896";  2779b 

17112?    2771"-  b 

"Ipir    1343" 

rcip    671" 

^  !.  J2764" 

"!pTP    100";  1123a 

nrip    79Sb;  1434";  2982" 

EB^ETC  1 

^plp    1999b 

/        :.  [2764" 

.•_k_.tt 

"lirip  i         ii"iz? 

.    .'  [see] 

IT''  WT  ' 

1  ;    15b'  1(;b;  G12a;834a 

rrnnp  J     1  rnyip 

-rtSll?    495";  1202";  1335"; 

Tffl 

TStpriP    1894b;  2867b 

19671-;     2556b; 

EpTC    1447b;  1965";  2515b; 

30S2a 

2743b 

f690b;  1248b;  1424"; 
Trip        1533'-;     1548b; 

EBlp   340";     698";     725'-; 
1287";     1759"; 

bp.ljj   2535b;  3079" 

.\      1797b;     214-1"; 

1771b;     1772'; 

bp.127    605";  2032b;  2076b; 

~W9       2145";     2697"; 
2713";  30X1>> 

1965";     2200'1; 
2408";     2531'.; 

2078"-  b;    2758".  b: 
3081" 

rn-iyip  2713" 

3010b 

DplPl 

briZJ    1334b;  14()4b 

I2Btp    1965a 

'".  [1123";  2877a 

rrapip  J 

byilJ  see  ^127 

•JSTO    2750" 

STlliypIP    1404b;  2864a 

Diabitfi 

n^ipsipi 

,_^.,r  ";  [  2762a 

fplp    6b;  16b 

L  "  .  f  2745" 

"ps  ?ri27  J 

fP.li;    15b;  834" 

_  -,  - 

1wE12?    2774" 

..^..•.     _      .^^.bi 

^Spyip    2745" 

'  '. 

Yf\*    soe   i    r™ 

D^byip    2745" 

^EUJ    s(>e  ^SIT 

pp.lp    208b;  1788b;  2530a 

C^plp    2782" 

^p.lp   746b;  748b;    1105a; 

yyip    782a;  820".  b 

•j'S^EttJ    55";  2737b 

1887";  2876b 

rrto    see  C"D 

T'BO    2690b;  2750" 

"lip   569a;  606";    1289b; 

nyip  2745" 

n^ElT)    10S71' 

1307b;     1929b; 
2438b;     2453b; 

nyip  1423" 

tJElp    27561' 

2454b;     2626a; 

1?lp   2515b 

n35^    2030" 

2690b;     2732a; 
2917";  3134b 

"iyiu  1  320" 

bDir   3b;  1-1391';  3045" 

1127   2122b;  see  also  "liti 

INDEX  OF  IIKHRKW  AND  ARAMAIC1,  WORDS 


3199 


CSTIZ;  ) 

n^-C    139.V' 

-,SP,    n:jti" 

*    (\    2750- 

n~;ij:  9  1  ib 

??.SP,    2910- 

rnip  1352-;  22i7b 

-nil:  2i22b 

^TZJSn    512" 

•a"i25  -'7G!1' 

iL^.TiJ  | 

H2P    242- 

^rnip  270  11' 

^J510b;2023-   ,-. 

-X'nP    11531';  25S7" 

-nip  274  2b 

mii:"''ii:  5S9- 

•p^P 

inil?    1X91";  217S-;  3119" 

pnip    2742b;  30G31' 

nrnp  ^2191-;  30x9- 

rnip    1821b;2454b;2513b; 

.  .  ^o'-jllll'SlSUJ"-11; 

n:iipj 

2G901' 

^^J      19S41';     19S5-; 

"HUP    345-;  2172b;  2901"; 

Pnip    57Gb 

ippl      2()S9b;     279()b; 

2902- 

rnii:  512'-;  513- 

[     2791- 

-ii:2L'i'    27GC)" 

52P    70()h;  747" 

m-lip    273S1' 

b2P   3100" 

)          r       i  vr  rta 

^  "i  T*>     .       *~^^r^ 

rmiE    2751- 

1  /  .Jd 

'-?\'    ^f'(- 

Tp-lip    1840b;  2779"-  '• 

•^CTp    2751" 

b^?p  4  sol> 

]2P    58Xb;  1424";  2XOGb; 

'.     '.      '        ,  -'•> 

^IL'IZ:    2700- 

2867b 

•>  *  •  Hk  •  •«           •  1  "~    ~     j      | 

,         ,       ^    .) 

n^TJJTp    2813b 

i;ar\  2980" 

1p/ni2J 

^IZJIJJ    1590b;  2705b 

rPjnn    1109b;  1136n;  22G4b 

lp-ni23J 

'jffi'li;    2700" 

nirnp  28s7b 

rrte  2732- 

"1115123    sec  "JpltJ 

"pP   2905" 

§  V    769b;  770" 

plTTp    2751" 

pbsp^ 

r'  "71?  ' 

"1115125    G70" 

"iOXx5 

•nip    2G90b 

P125    2743b 

ncbp  p.b}p! 

•^.TC    2750- 

nrip  iuib 

P53P 

J^nip    513b 

1P125    S8()b 

^V^":'5* 

Tin1ip    2G92b 

^Plp    3072-'  b;  3077" 

-o:bE  pr^p 

rr-il1  1 

'\;     2732- 

DP.ip    see  2PD 

n^n:»p  see  manain 

1P123    1971b;  1980b 

^H"P    2399a 

.»w»>\ 

"     T 

v*i^""j?    70'")- 

.  '  '. 

"IPlti    2766" 

1     '  • 

I"1"*  .1C 

•^m  1P125    27GOb 

'.'•'    2902" 

]pp|-253b;  254";  1340b 

"\"SP 

rT'TO 

p, 

b"~P   2980" 

T     : 

1      ! 

n;'i-'ii;j 

m'P   605";    700b;    83  lb; 

iS-niMi 

[144";  1307b 

941b;       1130"; 

2812b 

nxp  > 

2150b;  2309" 

ri^ 

n^p  ob 

«^nn   2Gb;     315b;     310"; 

ri~'^il'    1110b;  13951' 

8  17-;       30S1'-; 

TIT1"!!?:    145G";  1941b;  1942" 

nSP   see  XP 

=nl?       3100b;  3108b 

^P    143b;     144-;     5.S4-; 

nbnP   2429";  2487" 

rrp-r  26»3b 

3084b;     31  •).')'•; 

T 

y-ip    2871" 

S"|P        3150" 

n~np  1125- 

?",TC    744-;  2092-  ;  2732:  ; 

rnXP    194  lb;  1942" 

DHP    see  CTnp 

2737- 

cispi 

H2^~t?    H47b 

?nip    2G92-;2703b;2732"; 

!"  '     817b;  2973" 

IP    1980-  ;  2704b 

2737- 

T 

T                      , 

DXP   2208a 

"jlP  I           -_j 

Vlti    518-  ;  522b;  744- 

^•tn  f 

'  "  * 

uS5P   sec  DTSP 

-  \ 

•pip    425";     739-;    74  3b; 

^p.  bn^P  3027b 

744- 

1  1  inch-  1  122" 

«-^     jyq.jh 

n:xp  J 

niS'P    see  "j^-P 

p^N 

n^':sp  i354b 

nJW    1354b 

p^;it'  [>283()b;  3050a 

ribii5  n:sp  2887- 

n^n}2993b 

np-)te 

nSP    1985b 

n^2i5P 

3500 


INDEX  OF  HEBREW  AND  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


~~"P    2429";  2639";  2644''                ]ip,nP  1 

r"P:P    2704"'  ''                                        "P""P  I 

'.'                                                                               !   '  i    - 

H-2P    M84" 

*J  ^loll-  1417b;  2050"-                  i^TP  i 

^PJ      see  also  }P                            SBp  J2928" 

H£P    2001" 

^P   8ee  ISP 

"12P    372";    541b;    2908" 

•  •                                                     IT"^' 

2964'' 

'""'""P  1  1058";  1183'J-  1199-'-                      -v«p    '^''.;  2838";  2929" 

'-..,,_<  •, 

mbpl      1200'';   1494>- 

,.    :     1375'> 

*  :                                        T'^P  9Q'>().-i 
,  .                                          •  f  *..'  ±ttj~tti 

""*?  ; 

^I'C'^P            '>()•>().•' 

"C'TIP  1 

nybip    675b;    676—     884"; 

_.  "  :  1  1254";  2794'' 

,_yl.in  '      2701'1;     2994"-                     V  'V1    2990" 

'  'r'r*;1- 

3109"                                      ITI-PPI 

rT)2P    2929" 

P3?bp                                                             -      '   I-21401';  3086'' 

* 

C-PP  1 

"TOP    112'';    705";    1057'' 

mnp  i 

"   .     i-15b;  834"                                    K?   T!    2986'' 

10(>3";  2323" 

n?yp  '                                                    r-^n 

2^rP    232()b;  28041';  2846b 

_  v..._  ,                                                        •'    •     *j'^)'1 

3141'' 

M504-  1273";  1542b;  :                tjn"n    see  rmp 

w^P    1484";  30401' 

TS'IP    1249" 

n-p_-p 

!J^P    1403";  2569'' 

nnl,n)2981b                                                    1  14171- 

bi2P    see  bi'EP 

!flP  J 

2^P    7()4b 

3002a<                                     n^-ri    1098'-;  2710'' 

7TP    s<v  "Tip 

nip  )                                      vjp  -. 

)  r 

.     |5()l-   583'-;   87  11'                                 ^^    ^^itt' 

-:^P    2972'-;  2983" 

n!"£p  sec  n^^Tri 

'408";     430'-;    555";  '                ~b;p    2321" 

T              : 

902"'        1256"                 —  '--• 

"^P    2929";  2983b 

•n-i'in         1  "'-ir'i>-      i~'>                                   ^    2321" 

n~  iP        i  Do  o  ',     1  53  9  ';  •                  , 

"I"£P    2983" 

-^•-,1      1852".'';     1854";   '               r"I?1    675'';  88  1";  1  146b 

'    *            1857'"      1  t)8'i"'                       »^ 

cin  r:i2p  i 

99Q»b'     •>  -  '  '                          '"•     968";  3037'' 

2983" 

—  w  t/  o    j      -j  «)  8  I    ; 

me  rz'cp 

2582"                                           Tr^    2904";  29931' 

, 

mz?"p  1  1  1  90.,  .  o  i<>-i  .-,--,                  ip  13  10'' 

ipp    665b;ll23"-b;1350b; 

DCJP  J      28(i5"'h;  286(v-                 3"2X  bp    2924" 

2235";  2907b 

n«,^i,ni          b       _  (                                -x-p    3()0?;i 

rap    2236h 

n"TTP  1      2476";  3089"                         "VETXbp  ] 

.'  ''    22351' 

^-.-'                                                             ^>»V:  |2925";  2965b 

nn^pj 

^'  ^746'';  748'' 

™l^£P    sc^e  "T52"TP 

4  ?T"  ' 

•<?P    2819'1 

^:io?np  29021' 

P3?n  see  r,b:,p 

c'rapj 

sibnp  I 

«~'~?P    see  ~~*"P, 

)^ra^  ^667b 

•s  '      fl306b;  2783" 

,' 

XxIlP  1 

"P    13351' 

y 

C12np    2143b 

nbP    2925" 

"liran   483b;  1350b 

]nP    2902" 

xr^n  bp  2925" 

p~lpPl 

[  SCO    jx  '    1701^ 

~?np    2924" 

"rP    2515'- 

P^ranJ 

":np  2902" 

bbp  941" 

~:P    25501' 

cnpsrip  • 

nbp    1150" 

n:P   873";  3082" 

cniEnp 

^bP    2904" 

njr:p  si4b 

^L-«    2902b;  2903" 
w.iinP 

nbp  bp  2928b 

"V^P    2639"-'';  2643'' 

c^zsnp,  , 

n^bp  see  ybi'p 

^SP    515'' 

^^HP    13l3a 

r^sbp  254b 

nrnpp    2908'- 

7"!ni?    2903";  2910" 

"li???P    see  "ibxbp 

'427--     428b;     873"; 

TZJHP    376";    377";   2422"; 
2709b;     2710"; 
2814";  29021' 

DP    2320b;2407";2515b; 
3037" 

r?n        1548".  b;  2144- 
2525b;     2697- 
QiSPI      2707-     2737a; 

PHP    2850b;  2902b;  3037" 

DP    1484";  2321";  2798" 

3075b;     3082a; 
3084b 

IXDEX  OK  IIKHIIIOW  A.\I)  ARAMAIC  WORDS 


.rUJZP    592"  ;1826h;  1900"  h; 

nx;p  see  nsrp 

n:n~p  29S61' 

2074";  28741' 

"IpP    14  19'-;  298  11' 

—  r-^r 

n"p  ob 

?  i  . 

'    '  r    :    , 

1 

yipP    2924" 

___..__       ....         ! 

nny'p  see  nnyip 

1     » 

1    ' 

nyp    748";  970b;  2712" 

^i;'f2924" 

iyp] 

*  Y  i 

nip^P    see  n^^^P 

'    3000b 

nE'pn  1 

'  V 

•'ypJ 

¥p-  :   656b;  i)43:l 

)  "P    41  /" 

nbyp    13  19'1;  3074b 

"rpP 

y"!P    117.1'-;  27(59b;  2986" 

b^yp    348h;  826" 

bp.P    2032";  2924' 

"ry^P    2986" 

p^:"P   1103";  I3.i4'> 

•)PP    89C)'1;  22001' 

D^E-'.n    1270'-:  1390'';!  447'-: 

ypp    490'1;    ()().jh;   2399"; 

1  1.1.1";   1  .1")  1" 

'    2887"  ;  290s1' 

2872" 

ns-p,    2987" 

M  r<  P-1  ' 

"ypP    se<>   """p^? 

T2J1P    2949" 

-lyp    181.-)'-;  25331' 

rpP    333";  334'' 

HJ^'iT^P    2771";  2S.16'-;  2S.17"; 

"P   209.")";  2097";  2101" 

"EpP    see  "E'pP 

28(i2";     2914"; 

ni?rp  i 

. 

21)6.1" 

'    514a;   123.1'1 

i^vr"^ 

"IP    see  T.P 

PiEPP    1289b;  2132";  29S6h; 

1     IWSi-».!  ' 

n'~X~IP    29091' 

2987" 

n^SP    209"  b;  1  123";2220"; 
2909"'1' 

n-p  see  min 

]P"^P    2917" 

5EP    112.")";  303s1' 

npi-p  2si7b 

pP-;P    2917" 

5EP    2999" 

npn^.n    1387";  2986" 

HXTL-p    764'-  21.14'' 

nbEP    112")";   Hi81h 

"T"1'I?''122S1';       2177b; 

3t'P   see  niT-P 

n3EP,    2393";  2487" 

mjnnJ    -('-j(Jl  b;  ->()1->J 

I'ZUTP    523";  940" 

nCEP    29851' 

r,y^-p    891';  30."," 

rncn  sec>  r,nTpn~5s 

SEP    28-S71' 

nEinn  2026" 

rPli'P    see  PrTlTP 

PEP    29991' 

nnn  140.1" 

^.PP    2917'' 

ip.En    27().">f' 

~7'P    2948b 

'T25'vn'a-:vr 

dpva-a-os,  26b;  511";  992b 

dyadov,  r6  1014b 
d7aXXi'acris,  1755" 
dyaTrdw,  1932" 

d7d7T77,  69b;  525b;  59(5b;  597";  680" 
959";  1829";  1933" 

dya-n-r]T6s,  432b 

d77apei^a;,  G95b 

#77eXos,  132'-;  2()2b;   19131' 

071007x65,  2(58 lb 

d7ios,  1404";  26S61' 

dyvuffros,  3037b 

a7opdfw,  533" 

d7^,  71b;   11711' 

f-r   "V^A^X        Ti1- 

U.OCLTTCLl'OS    I  1  jj\_j  v  )       OV/f) 

ddijfj.oi'co},  13541-* 

MiKla,  2798b 

dS<Wos,  582";  724";  2560b 

&SVTOV,  65a 
d7?p,  88b 
Mcos,  31Sb 
d6freiJj!  137'' 
^ST;?,  1314b;  2761a 
i«toj,  1010b;  1041s 
alSws,  2748b 
ai/xa,  489a 

ai'pu,  1823" 

oipeo-u,  1377";  271  lb 

aiffxvv-ri  (LXX),  346" 

atV^w,  2S2b;  425b 

atVi'a,  581b 

aWv,  65h;  70b;  9S()b;  10101';  2455"; 

3108b 
aWwos,   990b;  991b;   1010b;    1041"; 

17()2b;  2502" 
d/cd^ws,  7G3" 

d/ce'pcuos,  2798a 
d/cpt/i^s,  10(59" 
dspt'Ses,  892" 
d/a>p6u>,  137b 

dXdo-rwp,  1150b 
dXe/0a;,  138" 

dXTj^a,  1090";    (LXX)   1484"; 
1698";  1712b 
s,  1090a 
•«5s,  1090";  1712";  1716b 


;,  321b 

op^a),  21b;   OS" 
dXXr/yopia,  97b 
AXXos,  989" 
d\\orpieTrlffKOTro^>  53 
d\\6rpLOS,  97" 
dXo7os,  52Gb 
«X<7os,  2G8b 
«X0a,  103b 

d\WTTT]t,    1143" 

d/xaprdi'a),  2798b 


d/xapria,  101  Gb;   2498s 
dfj.ia.i>T  os,  3037" 
dvap^Trw,  (5S:1 
d^d^eMa,  130" 
di'd0rip.a!  1228b 
d.i'ao'Taiipiw,  G8a 
d^dorairis,  98Gb 
dcatrrpo^i?,  70Gb;    182Sb 
dj'aroX^,  800";   SSS>> 
drSpaTToSicrr^s,  747" 

d^P,  145";  819b;   1442";  280G" 

dvdpaKid,  G71b 
ay0pa£,  071b 
(LvVpuTTos,  144b;  81()b 
d^i/Traros,  830b 

dvicTTIJ/J.1,    986" 

dw/uta,  1093";  14G9";   1713b 
a^op.os,  1859" 
avox'fl,  112Gb 
d^rt'Si/cos,  (54  b;  2(593" 
di'Ti^eos,  155b 
vTtKfi./jLaij  G4b 

t  1374" 
Tpoi>t  2(554" 

TTOS>   396" 

urTos,  154b 
d?raX7^)  1105" 
dirapxr/,  1114";    1416b 
d-n-avyaa^a,  522";   1451b;  1914b 
airdOfia,  3033" 
direXfijdepoi,  1881" 
dTTiffria,  3033" 

&TTlffTOS,    14G7" 

dir\6Tr/s,  511" 
dTrXoiis,  2S05a 
dTrodr)Kril  405a 

dTTOKa\VTTTla!    25Slb 

d.iroKd\wf/ist  981b;  983b-  2249" 
dTTOKardo-racrts,  991";   175Gb;  254Gb; 

25G2" 
dir6Kpv(posl  179" 

3502 


d7ToXoi;c<;,  394b 

dTTOTTO/XTTaiOS    (LXX),   343b 

dTTOo-roX-^  (LXX),  409" 

dTTio-ToXoS,    202b 

dTrwXeta,  7S()b;  991";  2320b 

dpyvpLov,  2395";  2792b 

dptarepoj,  1334b 

ap«rror,  385";  849b 

iipfjut,  595" 

&pTra.y/j.a,  2457b 

apirayrfs,  1293";  2457b;  2595b 

appa/Soj^,  401";  88fib;   1416b 

S,pa"rjv;  145" 
tfproj,  514b 
«PXi77«5s,  333«;  569";  2453";  2700b 

dpxiTpiK\ii>os,  385";  2627" 
<SPXW^,  665b;  2453" 
dvtXyeio.,  1003";  lS39b 
d<rK6s,  509b;  2814" 

O.O'TTOl'OOS     3024" 

dffcrdpiov,  1098b 
doreros,  10S7b 
dcrT7?p,  30Sb 

dffVvdtTO'S,    1746" 

d<r0aXros  (LXX),  2401b 

5.TO.KTOS,   855" 
ttTOTTOS      116 

a^Xr?,  2129" 
avrapKeia,  2275" 

(50eo-is,  1132b;  2557b 

dfiir/ui,  24" 
dtf> i. KVCO /u.a.1,  22b 

/Sai'ov,  514" 

pavrlfr,  385b;   386";    387";  388b; 

390";  394";    395";  399";    415"; 

1710";  3011b 

pdirTUTfia,  3S5b;  388b;  389";  394" 
pa-irTurrfs,  3S5b;  388b;  389";   394a 
pdiTTu,   385b;    386";    389";    390"; 

394" 

/3dp/3apoj,  402b 
/3dpos,  528b 
paaiXetu,  2553b 

/Saffra/w,  458b;  3097b 
£dros  (LXX),  532" 


1NDKX  OF  CiKKKK  WORDS 


pa.TTa.\oyeu,  19G4'1;  2559b 
,  lGb 
xcu,  Gb 
ta,  lGGlb 
<rT??s,  3051b 
iov,  459b;  2597" 
s,  495b 

s  yevtffetas,  1  183b 
Xos  TT]S  sVVs;  503" 
pi'os,  1889" 
p\a<rtpr]fj.[a,  485b 
p0i<Xei>T7?s,  723h;  2689b 
pov\-rjfj.at  3085" 
pov\o/j.ai,  3085a 
/3por6s,  145a 
Pptiffis,  2G27b 
/3y<T<ros,  87Gb 
/3w/x6s,  106b 


(LXX),  385a 
yevea.,  1199a 
yeveffia,  478" 
y^veffis,  477b 

7e^dw,  39Sb;  42Gb;  1410b; 
yepovffla,,  2719b 


7i^ifi(TKw,  37b;  99b;  1130";  K>9sa 
7X^0-0-0,  299Ga 

\  '  ^"""""b 

7^0-ts,  302";  G77b;  959b;  12  K)1: 
1241b;  1242b;  1245b;  22G01'; 
2702b 

yvwffros,  37b 

767,5,  748";  942b;  19G4b 

7<Vo?,  529a 

7pdMM",  474";  597b 

ypawarefc,  2704h;  3001" 


5er,  427b 
5e?7rj'oi')  385a 
SeXeafw,  42Gb 
SecnrirTjs,  1919a 

dfVTfpOTTpWTOS,    2G34b 

dyvdpiov,  830a 

8td,  395b 

Std/SoXos,  35a;  G4b;  957b 

SidSTj/xa,  762b 

8iaO-/i«Ti,  4GOb;  729b;  731a 

Sta/co«'w,  5Gb;  800b 

SiaKovia,  5Gb;  800b 

didKovos,  800a;  3103b 

SiaXaXe'w,  23a 

SiaXeiVw,  5SGa 
5ia.fj.ept  fa,  671a 
Sid^ota,  205Ga 
diacnropd,  855a 
Sia4>T]fJ.ifa,  23a 


aid'/'dXAia,  209Gb;  218Sb 

c)iOaKrtK6jI  1899" 
5i5a.<rKa.\la,  8GGb 
StSdcTKaXos,  851b 
5(5axT7,  SG7" 
Sidfiax/J-a,  lG49b 
5i'5w,ui;  G  lb 
Oiaip^co  (LXX),  /)" 

ot/catow,  1782'1;   1784";  17SG" 

OiKai'wua,   1  i  82 

0^-77  (LXX),  U-KKi" 

SiOTrerris,   17Sl:l 
StopfwiTts,  2545b 
At6cr\-oi'poi,  85  la 
5txoo"ra<7ta)  1377" 
Si^vxos,  87()b 
567^,  4G1»;  S()8« 
oo/ci/xdfw,  99b;  210b 
56£a,    14G'1;    849";    991b;    (LXX) 
123(ib;  1238b;  1239" 

SofXeta,  4 Do" 

SoOXos,  49.",";  800" 

5ox/7,  385" 

opdKuv,  427b;  87)3" 

5paXw  (LXX),  S72b;  239;"," 

Si'vauai,   13h 

o^a/xis,    11";    333";    403";    20G3"; 

2427b;  30r,7" 
Si'^dcrTTjs,  333";  2423a 


,XX),  G90";  9(1" 
iyeipu,  53a;  98G";  992" 

fyicaivia.,  TO.,  816b 
iyKevrplfr,  1292b 
fOvos,  1215a 
^os,  7fi9b 

ekwy,  145h;    14C.->;    ]451b;    1454b; 

19141' 

«pi}xij,  22<)3" 
«'s,  38Gb;  387b;  395" 
iK,  38Gb 

"  •"  Si  Q  a 

fKK\ri<ria.,  2s9";  G51";  N93b;   lG48b; 
22921 

eK\t'7w,  G13b 
e/cXeKTOs    925" 
e«Xo7r},  925b 
?K<TTa<rw,  3005" 
Adrrjs  (LXX),  533" 
c'Xeare,  254C)" 
fXe7Xw,  25G()b 
f\rr,HOff6rn,  101b;    425b 
e\eos,  2035b 
"K\\il»,  1295a' 

eXTTts,  1087b 
;    tij.Tropevofj.ai,  533a 

^,  3S7a;  395a 

tvOvidonai,  2972b 
f^iauros,  312G" 
r»oxos,  782";   1310" 


'    -p    -       '  1  1 W  1  'J 

^ayopdfa,  59";  2G55'' 
^iffr-n/u,  441";  3097b 

(&PKL&,     K)G7b 

iSoi'tria,  333";   17811';  2427'';  3057" 
ituTcpticlt,  1  79'' 
f'Trci™,  l()3b 
fVepiirTj/xa,  395" 

(•ViVios,  xs7b;  2197" 

tTrlyi'wais,  ]8  1C," 
oraiVtia,  GG8b;   12151' 
fTTte^s,   121  5b 

'         '  ft  "  1   '^'^  •"*!*• 

fTTLOv/J.eU,    l()8Gb 

fTriOvfj.ia,  (J98";    1912" 

ewiKaXeu,  208" 

eVtXo-w,  G13b 

tVioiWs,  13G4b;   1921";  30GO" 

f-n-iffKOTTos,  478b;  482";  1899";  1902'' 

tirurTptyu,  70Gb;  2558b 

(iruTTytMpri,  70Gb 

eV^dma,  9Slb;  20541';  2249";  2700b 

eTTOTTTTIS,    427" 

eTTo.'pcixtos,  587b;  957'';  959";  13521' 
fTraiAK's  (LXX),  9G2" 
^7a<r/a,  533";  1153b 

tprmia,  832" 

i/  CO  On 

6p7J/XOS,    832" 

>/          ,  1  O  1  ri-i 

epifpoSj  1Z49 
eppwcro,  1098" 

>'  1    O'>     1      L 

t(J07TTpOI/,    1  „»>  t 

f<TUTEPiK6s,  179b;   180a 

eVepos,  9S9" 

eros,  312G" 

ei)a77e'Xtoi',  1039'';    1281a 

eya->7eX«rrr?s,   1039b 

£1'50K£W,    99b 

ei)Wws,   19931 
eyWs,  535b 

cvXaptofjMi  (LXX),  341a 
e^Xo-yio,  4871';  511" 
€i)^oOxos,  1037" 

I  '  „      1  1  1  -I 

ef7r6pt(TTa.TOSf  4-4  1 

e6pa.Kt\uv,  1039b 
e;V6j8i)s,  840" 

>/  -v  <•)    4  /  \*~)'L 

CUCTTTACl  /Y  fOS     w  rVJ*J 

et;rpa7rfXt'a,  1G24" 
fi-Xapiffria,  1924b 

euwi'i'Moy,  1334b 

6s,  11351';  2537" 

xw,  97a 

v\6w,  G5b 

ujiy,  1702b;  1889a 

•fov,  73b;  418b 


uv,  2453";  2458" 
ai,  2972b 


3504 


INDEX  OF  (JRKKK  WORDS 


i?#os,   1013b 
rjXiKla,  71" 

Oavaros,  81  1  * 
t)av/j.a,  56b 
harptfa,  H79>- 
Oearpov,  1173";    11791' 
fctor^s,  1269" 

0«ov,  1269a 

W\77Ma,  3085" 

0Aw,  3085" 

0e/*Atos,  114  11' 

OeoKparia.,  2965b 

OfbTrvevcrTos,  1473b 

0e6r77s,  1209" 

Ofpcnretiw,  1349"  '   2391" 

O-rjplov,  41Sb 

0r,<ra.vp6s  (LXX),  2.5  I1';  300X" 

0X?^ts,  GO";  130" 

0opv/3^w,  57" 

6p6/jL(3os,  490b 

0VfJ.iaTr/ptOV,    588" 

0"M<5*,  l()17b;  2571" 
01^60,  1472b 
OvcriaffTr/piov,  10G1' 

t'doyuai,  1349";  2394" 
forpis,  2393b 


^7aj/3,  26931' 


«tos,  968";  2745" 

fepetfj,  2439" 

frrepos  (LXX),  78";  1108s 

iXdo-Ko/mi,  321b;  2054" 

iXa<r/j.fa,  1717";  2407" 

IXaa-Tr/piov,    242b;    2030";     (LXX 

2467";  2617";  2050" 
1/j.d.riov,  876b 
'"a-os,  75b;  968a 
lo-b^vxos,  2497b 


Ka.6a.p6s,  667a 
KaffiffTTj/jLi,  479";  655a 
Ka8o\tK6$,  583a 
K0.66XOV,  583" 
faty6s,  1975";  21401' 

KO.KUS,    HGb 

^dXoMos,  2297b 
Kdfj.-rjXos,  548U 
KO.VUV,  554a 
/cop5/a,  1350b;  1351» 


KO.TOTTTplfa,    427" 

Karoirrpov,  427" 
/v-ai^do/xai,  12391' 
^ai/x^a,  1235b;   12391' 
^Vrpo,-,  I248b;  (LXX)  2403" 

KfVTVplUV,    588:l 

^e't'wo-is,  1792" 
Kepdp.iov,  2401b 
Kepdriov,  1443" 
KV"o-os,  3010b 
^•W<  2433" 
^VT-OS,  3082b 

wTij,  242";  005";  1883b 

apa,  660";  209S" 

vpa.,  660";  2097b 


XtiTovpyta,  1828b;  2742'- 
X«di-,  (LXX),  51  lb 
Xe7TT6^,  1657";  2067b 
\if-iavuT6s,  588" 
Xtfi6s,  2348b 
Xoyia,  674" 
Xoylfofj.a.1,  1462b 
X67io*,  1884b;  1910" 

Xo7os  fv5id6fTos,  1913b 

X6yos  TTpotpoplK&S      1913b 


Kap-rros  TUV  xetXeW  (LXX)    546b 

/caraXXdtro-w,  2635b 

KarciXi^a,  1308b;  1433";  1470b 

Ka.rd.pa.,  767a 

icarapy  fa,  15» 

Kara.™/*-?,,  696b 


a,  1144" 
;,  514" 

/iXrycrtSj  545b 

KXivi)t  422b 

KodpdvTijs,  1098b;  2067b 

K<""OS,  688";  690b 

Arotj/am'a,  652";  688b;   705b;   1703b 

1924b;  1927b 
Koivuvinds,  G88b;  7()5b 
•iotTT),  422b<  591b 
<6\a(ns,  2571b 
ooXXoiJpto^  1070" 
L'oXXi>/3icrr7i5    594" 
:oX7ros,  22b;  410'-;  743b 
•«5pi7,  210" 

OfT/XfCO      Gl'J 

«:6<r/*oj,  9SOb;   1704";   1782b;  3H)8b 
KovvTudia,  130S" 
^0^os,  413b 

A-pdo-TTtSoj/,  5()4'.;   I374aj   1()()7..1 
^f'as,  HIS1' 

Kp/yUa,    781" 

A--r^ws,  419";  583b 
KTlfft,,  738" 

^r/<7Ma,  740b 

KvXiKLOV,    7GOb 

^i;XX6s,  1908" 
Kup/a,  773b;  925" 
vypia*:6s,  1910";    1919" 
K^oS,1254b;  (LXX)120S-  1919"- 

2800" 

tvpibTTi*,  869" 
Kuvwirelov,  50G'J 

Xa/cr/fw,  1797" 

Xap.7rds,  1825a 
Xa6s  (LXX),  1215" 
Xa7rto-r77S  (LXX),   348b 


Xo<M<5s,  23481' 

Xovrpbv,  394b;  398b;  18- 

Xo«'-w,  14";  394b;  3073" 

X^po.,2022";  2530b;  (LXX)  2531° 

Xvxvla,  552b 

MX™S,  552'-;  1825";   1892" 

X«J«,  24";   171G1' 

/ua7e('/a),  2795b 
fJ-ayia,  27951' 
Md7os,  4()4b 

/J.a.dtJTTJS,    85  lb 

navrcs,  800b;  803";  942b 
^ffT-tf,  2402b 
p-dxaipa,  25 lb 

fj.fyiffTa.vfs,  1919" 
M^^I?,  880b 

^Xav,  14()9" 
Mf'Xei,  578" 


HfffiTTjs,  GIG1';  2018b 
Mera/^aXXco,  594" 

ncTdOfw,  3007" 
fj.tTa./j.tXotJ.a.i,  2558b 
fj.eTa.vocu,  2558b 

/xero^w/a  (LXX),  5G9b 
Mr)  ycvoLTo  (LXX),  1097b; 
fj.La6uT6s,  1395" 
«o*i},  9";  1983b 
uo^7e^S)  ni3b;  2190" 

'J.op(pr/,  1098b 

x^os,  943b;  1085" 

uxrTJpw,     1924b;     2104";     2105b- 

2G30b 
'wpos,  1125";  2523" 

"f'os,  1975";  214()b 

vevna,  421b 
vewx6pos,  601" 
<"?7r£os,  348b 
^o-rem,  1099a 
""rr^p,  4121. 
wVrw,  14";  3073" 
"odos,  413b 
vo/j.lfa  29721' 

r,  1859";  2704b 


IN'DKX  OK  (JKKKK    WUKDS 


vofj-odiddcrKaXos,  2701'' 

vop.oOtTtj'i,  \  858b 

MHOS,  18441' 

v6<ros,  854" 

vovs,  2050";  2721";  3094  '• 

vvjj,<f)(i)v)  ,r)22" 


67*0?,  529" 

otKo5eo'Tr6Tijs>  1438b 

oiKovd/jios,  152";  591'1 

olKovfttrr),  SS7a;  1353b;  2600";  3109" 

8\e6pos,  991" 

6|iuXta,  706" 

6/j.o9vfj.a56v,  33b 

o/j.oiio/j.a.j  140" 

ofjLoluiris,  145'';  146" 

6/j.o\oy^biJ  699" 

Sfap,  874" 

67^,  585b 

6p77?,  257  1" 

6pKi^u>  50" 

6p</>ac6s,  679";  1101a 

'6&Tpa.Kovt  2202'' 

60eiX77,  435b;  81  4";  883b 

6<j>ei\T)/jLa,  1309" 

«0tJ,  427b 

ox^pu^a,  11371;  1140h 

•jrdilri/jLa,  1  15Sb 
Trdtfos,  1472b 

7rcu5a7w7fo,  1020";  17S3";  27()2b 
TrcuSet'a,  59Sb;  So2";  257  lb 

7rai5ioi',  600b;   7S  1" 

TratSiffK-rj,  495";    7S1" 

7ra?s,  512b 

TrciXai,  17901' 

TraXi^e^eo-fa,  1354:1;  2503";  254Uh; 

25G2a 

Travdoxfiov,  1  170'' 
•jrav/iyvpis,  289" 
Travovpyla,  734!* 
Trarovpyos,  734s 

TravTOKparup,  100";    12()7!l;   2188b 
Trapa/Sacrts,  2798b 
Trapa/ioXT?,  24091' 
Trapayye\ia)  595" 
TrapdSeitros,  152";    1174";    224S1' 
TrapadiSijtifJ.1,  454b 
TrapadrjKrjj  830" 
TrapaKaX^w,  678b 
TrapaK\r]ffLS,  704"  ;    105  lb 
Trapci/cX^ros,  05";  079";  14SS";  2245" 
Trapa/cXr/rcop,  2245" 
7rapaXXa777,  302b 
Trapao-Kei)^,  798b;  2437";   2982" 
TraparLO^fj.!.,  680" 
TrapaxpiJMi,  1993" 

Trdpeo-is,  1132b;  2557b 
Trdpoi/cos,  1128";  1828h;  2407'1 

irapoifjiia,  1170";  2469b 


TTClpOiCOS,    514b 

Trapouo-ia,  1657";  20541';  2249" ;  2438" 
irappT]crla)  4941' 
7ra(TTO</'Op/oj'(LXX),  2717:i 

Trdo-xa,  889";  225t)" 

Trarpid,   ]094b;    1X94" 

TrfiOu,  2348" 

Treipdfco,  288'' 
TTO^S,  2421";  2427" 
TrevT-rjKOffTri,  23  1 8" 
TreTroM^ffiS,  700" 
Trfpt/SiXaiOf,  733" 
Trfpiepyos,  533";  767" 
irepLKecftaXaia,  251l>;   253b 
Trepioycrios,  2294b 
TreptTTOi^cjis,  229  lb 
Trepicrcros,  17b;   64b 
Treptywa,  2 ISO1' 
Tr^racros,  878b 
Tr^rpa,  1648'';  1795b 
Trerpos,  1648b;    1  7951' 

TTTjXlKOSj     1070'' 

•iri/j.Trpr]/juJ  41" 

TTiCTTeL'U),    432" 

TT/O-TU,  l()87b;  1090" 
7rto-T6s,  958";  1090" 
TTio-ris  6  Xo7os,  1091a 
iriTvpa  (LXX),  13b 
TrXa^TTjs,  308b 
TrXeofdfw,  17b 

TT\€Ol'(KTf<j}!    ()4b 

TrXeow^'a,  733b;    1069" 
7r\7;7^,  2402b 
TrXTjpow,  2461b 

7rX77pcoMa,  677'';  960b;  1148b;  1244"; 

1245";  2275b 
TT^OAia,  398h;  399b;    1406b;  2121b; 

2721";  3094b 
Trvev/ji.aTiKtis,  989";  2721" 
7ri/o7y  fw^j  (LXX),  2495" 

TTOl^W,    990b 

77-01777-175,  2410" 

TTOtKtXoS,   860" 

Troi/j-rjv,  G54b 
iroifjivt),  584" 

TToi/JLVLOV,    584" 

iroivri,  2697" 
7T-6Xts,  662" 
7roXiTapx7?s,  665b 
TToXtret'a,  688b 
iroKlrevfita,  661" 

TToXiTTJS,   661" 

Tro^pos,  1921";  2805" 
Trop^eia,  1339b 

7r6p7T77,    526b 

7rop0upa,  884" 

TTOTifipiov,  487b;  766";  1924b 

7r6ros,  580" 

TrpatTwptoi',  1777b;  242sb 
7rpa£ts,  39a;  817" 
TrpSos,  2027" 
TTpda-ffu,  990b 


Trpeafifla,  1 15" 

TT /tfff  jlfVUI ,     1  15" 

•n-peffptrepos,  479";  1)54'';  924";  1828b; 

2437b 

TrpeffftuTijs,  71" 
Tptvo?  (LXX),  1405" 
TTfioyivuaKia,   1128";    1  130" 
irpbyvuffLs,  112S";  2435" 

TTp65pO/J.OS,    1  131" 

irpMtffLs,  2435";  2510";  2767" 
7rp6i'oia,  2470'' 
rrpodpicrp.os,  2435" 
Trpoffay(j}yr)!  27b 
TrpoffavaTLOrj/j.^  699" 
TTpocroe'xop^ai,  1026'' 
•rrpofffvx'n,  2469'' 

TrpOUTjXliTOS,    2467b 

TTpoffKf(f>d\atoi'>  769";  277(ib 

irpoffKvvtu,  60b;   61" 

TTpOCTfpOfjd,    1923b 

Trp6a<j>Troi>>  2337" 
Trpo^T^TT??,  1408";  24(>4" 

eta,  2404" 

fvw,  2404" 
TrpwTOKaVfdpia,  OOO1' 
TrpojTO/cXicr/a,  722" 

TrpcoToroK'ia,  478";  2452b 
7rpco7-6TOKos,     519";     676'';      1113"; 

1829";  2196" 
TTTepuyiov,  2400" 
TTTtD/xa,  5761';  722'' 
TTTWX^S,  426";  2421";  2427" 
-rrvyfj-rj,  14b 
TrvXuv,  1175b 

TTi/peris,  490b;  (LXX)  1108" 

TTlipOO),    532" 

pa/35oOxos,  45";  27321' 

pa/cd,  2523" 

pavrifr,  385b;  38fV";   39  lb 

p^a,  3105" 

po/xi/icu'a,  252b 

o-d/S/Saroj/,  2629'1;  2982" 
<ra.pfia.Tov  656s,  2634" 
0-a.fJ.pvKr],  2099" 
<raj'5dXioi')  2779'' 
o-a^s,  2407b 
crapydvrij  413b 

vapKiKos,  580";  989";   11 19";  2721" 

o-dp/apos,  580";    1119" 

<rdp^,  492b;5SO";  1118b 

o-eXTjudfop-ai,  1941b;  1961" 

crf/j.v6rr]SJ  1294" 

a-rjfj.e'ioVj  2063* 

ffiay&v,  GOO" 

0-i/cdptoi,  288" 

<7iKepa,  879b 

aKdvoaXov,  1441b 

O-/CT)WS,  2497" 

o-K^es  (LXX),  1240" 

c7/c6Xoi/',  760b;  2277b 


3506 

<rop6s,  472b 
ffovSdpw,  21 01-;  87Sb 
ff-n-fipa,  258";  382b;  58X";   lt,c>9 
ffireKovXdrup,  1051b;   1308" 

crirfp/jioX6yos>  34Sb;  2275" 
ffirjXau,,,,  585b 

inrovSr}!  578" 
^ar^p,  10491.;   239  J1' 
a-ravpos,  7GOb;   2t)52" 
<TTepf'WMa  (LXX),  315b 

ffTTJOoS,    517b 


oiXfiov,  927b;  2455";  2G24l 


,  2.W>;   Ali!)1';    l.'J 
a'Vfj.j3ov\ioi't  723b 

<TUfJ.(3ov\OS  t    723b 
ffl'/J.TT\T)p6u>    231Sb 
(TU/J.<t>VTOS>   2290b 
ffVfJL(f)Wl'fWl    75b 

O-^DXOS,  2497b 

<Tvva.yioy-f]t  893b 

(rvvtdpiov,  723b;  2G8S'1;  2719b 

<rvi>fidTi(rist  701h 


(7UVOX^,    13Ga 

fffoffu/mos,  492:i 

fftppayis,  27()S:l 

ff<pv5p6v,  13G!l 

<r<t>vpis}  413b 

o-XWa,  10981' 

o-X'^a,  2702:' 

o-^a,  492";  493b;  9S9:1;  2()f)G";  227f)" 

o-wr^p,  2700:> 

a-wTTjpia,  178G:1;  2320'1 


IXDKX  OF  CIREKK  WORDS 


reVwy,  G()7a;  GOS"; 
reXeiow,  2G8G" 
TfXeicjr^s,  1  1  ]  I'1 
7-f'Xos,  301  ()h 
r^pas,  20G3a 
TerpaSioVj  2.513:l 


crewy,  72.>;   30X3° 
Tn/iTrac/jw,  2704b 

Tl'TTOS,   39():l 

ri^Xis,  487b 

"5x'7  (T>XX),  .593" 

iJaXos,   1233-' 
i'^P's,  1304" 
vio6effia,  58:1;  2o.5(5b 
t'ios,  G()8a 


viraKor/,  217ob 

VTrepcxil,  333a 

inrriperris,  800a;    19Stih;   2GS9b 

virepv\f/6u>  Gl  lb 

inr6dijfj.a}  2779b 

v-jrdKpiffis,  721b;  1445" 

vTTOKpiTriSj  144;"ib 

viro/j.ovri}   191Sb 


toi>!  (5()9b 
6s!  1439b 


st  GG9b 


apfMKeia,  19G4b 

^pw,  1S23-' 

^M',  GGa 

os,  1894a 
aSe\<pia)  52;")*' 
auTos,  ]()():;:l 
^w,  432b;  1932" 


,  1814" 

<pi\offO(f>ia!  2383a 
06pos,  3010b 
(popTiof>  528b 
^Pf'ap,  424s 
(/ipoj^u,  2972'1 
<pv\a.KTi/jpiov>  12Gb-  2392b 
0i/\aK?7  (LXXj,  538a;  29S2a 
<pv\dpx-r)s,  2393b 
<pv\d<T(rut  128a 
<^>^5,  1892a 
<purl  fa,  1449a 

xat'pw,  967";  1291b;  1719" 
xapa/cT^p,    lOG9a;     1451";    (LXX) 

1468" 

x  «/»«£,  383";  2789" 
XaplfriJ.a.1,  1133" 
X«P'S,  27b;  1290";  203r>b 
Xa.piff/j.a,  1228b;    1319b 


eiporovtw,      -179";       G13b;       G55a; 
2199b 

iXi'apxos,  2o7";  2")8b;  o()l)b 
ITWJ/,  876a 
o«6s,  989b 
p-n/J-aria-fj-os,  2oSlb 
piffTiai'Lafj.os,  G22b 
p'Tria^os,  621b 
pi<rr6s,  1411" 

/"'w,  138" 
PO"°5,  G29b 
^Xos,  19G8" 


a\TijpLOi>,  2098b 
<ev86xpiffTo'i!  G2Sb 
tXy;  TroLKi\-q  (LXX),  375b 

i'X^7,  208'1;  13ol";  1S89";  2721"; 

3094" 
'UX'KO*,  492b;  9S9";  1974";  2121h; 

2721" 


ofj.a.1,  533" 
,  1434" 
cr/j.evos!  834" 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


AHAXA  RIVER  >i 

AHKAHA.M'S  (  )AK  .  ii. 

ABSALOM'S  PILLAR  A.VD  TOMBS  OK  ST.  JAMES 

AND  ZACHAHIAS  (Full  Page) i. 

ABSALOM'S  TOMB  i- 

ACROPOLIS  AND  AREOPAGUS,  ATHENS  i. 

ADDER iv. 

AGRICULTURE 

1.  Bringing  Home  the  Barley  Harvest       i. 

2.  Egyptian  Threshing-floor v. 

3.  Field  of  Boaz.  .  i. 

4.  Going  to  Market i. 

5.  Going  1o  Market  .  .  .  iii. 

0.  Implements  of  Agriculture i. 

7.  Market-place  at  Jaffa.  ...  .    i. 

S.   Modern    Syrian    Wine    Press    (Full 

Page) 

9.  Olive  Press  at  Banias  near  Dan  (Full 
Page) iv. 

10.  Plowing  near  Nazareth iv. 

1 1 .  Plowing  in  Syria  with  Yoke  of  Oxen   v. 

12.  Priest-king  and  God  of  Cultivation. .  iii. 

13.  Primitive  Plowing i. 

14.  Reaping  and  Binding  Sheaves iv. 

In.  Sheep  at  Dothan  (Full  Page) iii. 

It).  Shepherd  of  Bethany ii. 

1  7.  Shepherd  and  Sheep iv. 

15.  The   Shepherd's  Field  and  Field  of 

Boaz i. 

19.  Syrian  Plow,  Yoke  and  Pick iv. 

20.  Threshing    Instrument    with    Sharp 

Teeth i. 

21.  Threshing  with  Oxen i. 

22.  Yoke  of  Ancient  Plow v. 

AHURA  MAZDA iv. 

AIN  JIDY,  LOOKING  SOUTH ii. 

ALABASTER  BOXES i. 

ALGUM  TREE i. 

ALMOXD  TREE i- 

ALOES i- 

ALPHABET — 

1.  The  Paestos  Disk,  Face  A i. 

2.  Primitive  Alphabets  (Insert) i. 

3.  Primitive  Signs  Like  A i. 

•1.  Table  Showing  Script  of  Semitic  Lan- 
guages. .  .  .iv. 

ALTAR  OF  BURNT  OFFERING  AND  ALTAR  OF 

INCENSE i. 

ALTARS — 

1.  Altar  of  Burnt  Offering  and  Altar  of 

Incense i. 

2.  Cairn  Altar i. 

3.  Fire  Altars iv. 

4.  Incense  Altars  of  Sandstone  Found 

in  the  Rock  Shrine  at  Sinai.  .         .    i. 


234 

24 

319 

2737 

405 

2970 
491 
534 

1990 


30SC) 

2184 
2221 
3127 
139!) 
70 

2534 

173S 

876 

2703 

450 
2409 

70 
77 

3120 

2332 

80S 

512 

96 

100 

103 

104 
104 
101 


107 

107 

2334 


5.  Rock  Altar  from  Taanach .  i. 

0.   Rock  Altar  at    Tell  el-Mutasellim 

Megiddo  (Full  Page)  .  .  iii. 

7.  Stone  Altar  of  Ge/er i. 

AMICUS  RUFUS .  iii. 

A.VATHOTH,  JEREMIAH'S   BIRTHPLACE  (Full 
Page) .    iii. 

A  NT  IK  NT  AQUEDUCT  AT  SMYRNA  .  .  iv. 

ANCIENT  ASIATIC  CROWNS  ii. 

ANCIENT  EGYPTIAN  BASKETS ..  i. 

ANCIENT  KGYPTIAX  HINGES  iii. 

ANCIENT  EGYPTIAN  PAINTINGS  ox  CLOTH 
(Full  Page) .  ii. 

ANCIENT  EGYPTIAN  TEMPLE — PHILAE  (Full 
Page) ii. 

ANCIENT  HORNS  AND  CURVED  TRUMPETS      v. 

ANCIENT    MANUSCRIPT   ox    PAPYRUS    (In- 
sert)  iii. 

ANCIENT  OIL  PRESSES.  .  .  .  .  iv. 

ANCIENT  PAINTING  OF  AN  EGYPTIAN  PRIN- 
CESS (Full  Page) .  .iv. 

ANCIENT  POTTERY  (Full  Page) iv. 

ANCIENT  SEALS  FROM  ORIGINALS  IN  THE 
BRITISH  MUSEUM iv. 

ANIMALS — 

1.  Adder iv. 

2.  Antelope i. 

3.  Asp .    i. 

4.  Asses  at  a  Mill.  .  .    i. 

5.  Asshur-bani-pal  Hunting 

0.  Assyrian  Lion  Hunt 

7.  Bas-relief  of  Lion  Hunt 

S.  Bats'  Ears .  . 

9.  Bit  and  Bridle.  i 

10.  Broad-tailed  Sheep  .  .  .iv 

1 1.  Bronze  Goat  Head  from  Tello i 

12.  Camels  at  the  Sea  of  Galilee i 

13.  Cattle.  ...  .    i 

14.  Chameleon  .  .  i 

15.  Chamois:      Persian    Wild    Goat    or 

Pasang i 

10.  Elephant's  Tusks  Brought  to  Thoth- 

mes  III iii 

17.  Fighting  with  Wild  Beasts.  .  ii 
IS.  Fox ii 

19.  Gazelle ii 

20.  Gazelle 

21.  Gecko    . 

22.  Group  of  Conies .... 

23.  Hittite  Lion,   Boghaz-keuy;    at   the 

"Lion  Gate" i 

24.  Hooded  Snake.  .  .  i 

25.  Hunting  Deer  in  an  Enclosed  Field. .  iii 
2li.  Jackal  iii 
27.  Leopard iii 


1390 

10S 
2079 

15SS 

2S1S 

702 

413 

1393 

914 

1034 
3025 

2238 

2182 

2300 
2424 

2708 

2737 
144 
286 
287 
294 

1441 

2150 
414 
482 

2757 
359 
548 
584 
592 


1544 
1172 
1144 
1179 
2597 
1906 
698 

278 

55 

1441 

1548 

1800 


51W 


3508 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


iii.   1805 

1(50 

8G7 


28.  Lion 

29.  Monkey  from  the  Praenestine  Mo- 

saic   

30.  Pariah  Dog  at  Beirut 

31.  Plowing  in  Syria  with  Yoke  of  Oxen  v.  3127 

32.  Sheep  at  Dothan  (Full  Page) iii.'  1738 

33.  Shells  of  Murcx  trunculus  at  Sidon  .  .  iv.  2510 
3  \.  Shepherd  and  Sheep ;v    2763 

35.  Syrian  Bear ;    ~41  7 

36.  Threshing  with  Oxen 

37.  Wild  Goat  of  Sinai 

38.  Wolf 

39.  Young  Camels  Grazing 

ANISE 

ANTELOPE 

ANTI-LEBANON:  SOUK-WADY-BARHADA.  .  .    iii    1862 

APHRODITE.  .  -    129S 

APPROACHES  TO  A  CITY  .  ,!,•'•. 


i.  77 
n.  1240 
v.  3000 
i.  547 
i.  136 
i.  144 


ARABS — 

L  Arab  Meal ;ii    2()U 

2.  Arab  Tent 

.    3.  Arab  Women  Preparing  Bread.. 

4.  Bedawin  of  Moab 

5.  Modern  Aral)  Marriage  Procession 

6.  Modern  Arabs 

7.  Modern    Arabs    Encamped 

Valley  of  Achor 

8.  Modern  Arab  Village. 

9.  Showing  "Shed"  of  Arab  Loom..  . 
ARAB  TEXT 

ARAB  WOMEN  PREPARING  BREAD 

ARAMAIC,  GREEK  AND  LATIN  WRITING  IN- 
COMMON  USE  IN  PALESTINE  IN  GOSPEI 
TIMES 

ARARAT 

ARCHES  OF  ANCIENT  AQUEDUCT  AT  ANTIOCH 
(Full  Page) 

A  RCHITECTURE — 

1.  Absalom's  Pillar  and  Tombs  of  St. 

James  and  Zacharias  (Full  Page).. 

2.  Areopagus  at  Athens 

3.  Artificial   Mound,   Marsovan  Plain; 

Possibly  Hittite j.     280 

4.  City  Wall  at  Gezer {{[  1222 

5.  Coliseum "  iv[ 

b.  Colonnade  at  Amman  (Kabbah) ...  iv. 

7.  Doorway    with    Voluted    Slabs    at 

Lachish I      9->  - 

8.  Elevation  of  House  from  Court iii.  1436 

9.  Extremity  of  the  Grand  Colonnade 

at  Gerasa 

10.  Ezekiel's  Temple  Plan 

11.  Front  Elevation  of  Temple  ... 

12.  Great  Court  Including  Royal  Build- 

ings  


2605 
2521 


1218 
2935 
2938 


v.  2932 


13.  Hittite   Lion,  Boghaz-kcuy;   at    tin 

"Lion  Gate" 

14.  Hittite  Warrior,  Boghaz-keuy . 

15.  Interior  of  Vizir  Khan,  Aleppo 

16.  Isometric  Sketch  of  a  House  al  Ge/er. iii.  1435 

17.  Jewish  Temple  of  Leonlopolis.  .  i.     235 


278 

278 

1470 


18.  Lintel  Stones . 


i.     236 


19.  Lion  Gate  at  Boghaz-keuy.  ....'".  ^  1396 


20.  Modern  City  of  Es  Salt 

21.  Monuments  in  Assur,  Discovered  by 

the  Germans.  .  .  :..    97R- 

22.  Obelisk  at  On '.'.'.'.'. 

23.  Obelisk  of  Thothmes  I ... 

24.  Old  Jisr  el-Mujamia,  Roman  Bridge 

across    the    Upper    Jordan    River 
(Full  Page) 


iv. 

ii. 


234 


2193 
909 


iv.  2602 


Painted  Tombs  of  Marissa .    j.     236 

6.  Palace  of  Omri  and  Ahab  at  Samaria  iv!  2192 

T^'i  n  i  Kr\/-\»-» 


26. 


27.  Pantheon 


28.  Pillars  and  Hollow  Stone  of  the  High 
Place  at  Gezer.. 


iv.  2621 


iii.   1391 


29.  Plan  of  the  Balhs  in  the  Castle  at 

Gezer 

30.  Plan  of  House 

31.  Plan  of  the  Library  at  Nineveh. 

32.  Plan  Of  Pergamon 

33.  Plan  of  Solomon's  Temple v.  2931 

34.  Robinson's  Arch jjj'  1613 


.    i, 

iii. 
.  iv. 
iii. 


414 
1436 
2151 

1885 


-Facade  of  Thea- 


35.  Roman  Forum . 
30.  Ruins  at  Amman 

ter 

37.  Ruins  of  One  of  Herod's  Temples  in 

Samaria 


iv.  2613 


iv.  2521 


iii.  1380 


38.  Ruins  in  Samaria ;v    2G7t 

39.  St.  Stephen's  Gate..  :'  i«m 


-Schick's   Model 


in.  1603 


2930 


40.  Solomon's  Temple 
(Full  Page) .... 
41. 
42. 
43. 

44.  Tomb  of  Zechariah i.  ~236 

45.  Tower  of  Antonia ii    1140 

46.  Tower  of  David .'.'iiL  1619 


Streets  of  a  Jewish  City .    i.     231 

Synagogue  at  Kefr  Berim i.     237 

Theater  at  Gerasa .  ii.  1171 


the 


47.  Traditional  House  of  Ananias 

48.  Traditional    House    of    Simon 

Tanner 

49.  Traditional       Megiddo— Ruins      of 

Palace  and  Public  Buildings  (Full 


780 


iii.   1732 


.iii.  2028 


50.  Triple    Gate— German    Excavations 

at  Nablus  (Full  Page) 

AREOPAGUS  AT  ATHENS 

ARM-CHAIR  OR  THRONE 

ARMOR,  ARMS — 

1.  Assyrian  Bronze  Knives iii.   isi5 

2.  Battle-axes  and  Spears i.     252 

3.  Bows,  Arrows  and  Quiver i.     252 

Breastplate  

Egyptian  Slinger 

Egyptian  Stone  Knives iii.  igif, 

Egyptian  Swords i      252 

Greaves  and  Sandals i.     254 

Group  of  Ancient  Arms i.     251 

10.  Heavy-armed  Greek  Soldier i.     251 

11.  Helmet :      2.-<> 

12.  Hittite  Warrior— Boghaz-keuy i.     278 

13.  Hittite  Warrior — Senjirli iii.  1400 

14.  Persian  Warriors jv    2336 

15.  Shield,  Sword  and  Girdle    .  i.  ~253 


1138 
239 
2977 


253 
252 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


.3.509 


ARTIFICIAL  MOUND,  MARSOVAN  PLAIX; 
POSSIBLY  HITTITE i. 

ASCENT  TO  Ai:  PATH  TO  ELIJAH'S  TRANS- 
LATION   i. 

ASH i. 

ASHTORETH i. 

ASP.  .  i. 

ASSES  AT  A  MILL.  .  i. 

ASSHUK-BANI-PAL  HuXTIXG     .  i. 

ASSHUR-BANI-PAL'S  ACCOUNT  OF  His  RES- 
TORATION OF  THE  STAGE-TOWER  AT 
NIPPUR i. 

ASSYRIA — • 


280 

87 

286 
271 
2SG 

2S7 
291 


1.  Asshur-bani-pal  Hunting i. 

2.  Asshur-bani-pal's    Account    of    His 

Restoration  of  Iho  Singe-tower  at. 
Nippur i.     294 

3.  Assyrian  Armed  Galley  in  Motion..  .  iv.  2775 

4.  Assyrian  Ax i.     341 

5.  Assyrian  Balance i.     380 

6.  Assyrian  Book  .  .  i.     497 

7.  Assyrian  Bronze  Knives iii.   181") 

8.  Assyrian  Chariot i.     596 

9.  Assyrian  Dulcimer iii.  2098 

10.  Assyrian  Fringed  Garment ii.   1140 

11.  Assyrian  Glass  Bottles.  i.     .")!() 
Assyrian  King  in  His  Chariot                 i.     292 
Assyrian  King  Placing  His  Foot  on 

the  Neck  of  an  Enemy.  ...  .  ii.   1126 

14.  Assyrian  Lion  Hunt iii.   1441 

15.  Assyrian  Manner  of  Wearing  Hair.   .  ii.   1320 
1(5.  Assyrian  Ring  with  Wings i.     304 

17.  Assyrian  Standards  and  Banners.          i.     384 

18.  Bas-relief  of  Sennacherib   Besieging 

Lachish .  iv.  2150 

19.  Brick  Stamp  of  Sargon  I i.     361 

20.  Bronze  and  Stone  Weights  Used  in 

Nineveh v.  3079 

21.  Egyptian  and  Assyrian  Bracelets. .  ..    i.     513 

22.  Jehu's     Tribute— from     Obelisk     of 

Shalmaneser iii.   15X4 

23.  Monolith  of  Shalmaneser  II i.     436 

24.  Monuments  in  Assur,  Discovered  by 

the  Germans iv.  2765 

25.  Plan  of  the  Library  at  Nineveh iv.  2151 

26.  Presentation  of  Umman-igas  to  His 

Subjects  by  the  Assyrian  General,  ii.     921 

27.  Procession  of  Assyrian  Musicians.  .  .iii.  2097 

28.  Sargon  in  His  War  Chariot iv.  2(593 

29.  Sennacherib   on   His  Throne   before 

Lachish iii.  1820 

30.  Tiglath-pileser  I    .  .  v.  2981 

ASSYRIAN  ARMED  GALLEY  IN  MOTION iv.  2775 

ASSYRIAN  Ax i.     341 

ASSYRIAN  BALANCE i.    380 

ASSYRIAN  BOOK i.     497 

ASSYRIAN  BRONZE  KNIVES  iii.  1815 

ASSYRIAN  CHARIOT i.     596 

ASSYRIAN  DULCIMER  iii.  2098 

ASSYRIAN  FRINGED  GARMENT ii.  1146 

ASSYRIAN  GLASS  BOTTLES i.     510 

ASSYRIAN  KING  IN  His  CHARIOT  .    i.     292 


ASSYRIAN  KING  PLACING  His  FOOT  ox  THE 

NECK  OF  AX  ENEMY  .  ii.  1126 

ASSYRIAN  LION  HUNT.  ..iii.  1441 

ASSYRIAN  MANNER  OF  WEARING  HAIR       .  ii.  1320 
ASSYRIAN  Rixc;  WITH  WINGS.  .    i.     304 

ASSYRIAX  STANDARDS  AND  BANNERS  .    i.     384 

ASTRONOMY — 

1.  Assyrian  Ring  with  Wings  .  .  .    i.     304 

2.  Corona  of  Minimum  Type  .    i.     303 

3.  East— A  Corner  of  the  Milky  Way  .   i.     306 

4.  East — Star  Swarms..  .    i.     307 

5.  Heaven,  The  Earth  and  the  Abysses 

(Schiaparelli's  Hebrew  World)..  ..    i.     315 

6.  Hercules  and  Draco .  .  .    i.     309 

7.  Hydra    and    the    Neighboring    Con- 

stellations     j.     310 

8.  Ophinchus  and  the  Neighboring  Con- 

stellations     i.     310 

9.  South— The  Pleiades.  .  .    i.     311 

10.  Stars  of  the  Plough,  as  the  Winnow- 

ing Fan i. 

11.  Worshipping  Heavenly  Bodies i. 

12.  Worshipping  the  Lunar  Deity i. 

ATHEXA  PROMACHOS ii. 

ATTITUDES— 

1 .  Bowing i. 

2.  (Jiving  a  Blessing i. 

3.  Kissing  the  Hand i. 

4.  Kneeling i. 

5.  Supplication:   "Falling  at  the  Feet"    i. 

6.  Washing  before  Eating i. 

AWLS j. 

AXES.  .  .    i. 


BAAL i. 

BABYLON — 

1.  Babylonian  Idols i. 

2.  Boundary  Stone  of  Nebuchadnezzar 

I..  iv. 

3.  Brick  Bearing  the  Name  of  Nebu- 

chadrezzar      i. 

4.  Bronze  Goat  Head  from  Tello i. 

5.  Building  Inscription  of  Nabopolassar  i. 

6.  Building    Inscription    of    Nebuchad- 

rezzar II i. 

7.  Clay  Tablet  with  Seal  Inscription. .  .    i. 

8.  The  Deluge  Tablet .  .  .    i. 

9.  Ea i. 

!  0.  From  an  Engraving  on  a  Babylonian 

Cylinder  Representing  the  Sun  God 
and  One  of  His  Priests i. 

1 1 .  Fragments  of  Inscribed  Vases  of  the 

Early  Sumerian  Period  i. 

12.  Mound  Covering  Nippur  Tower        .    i. 

13.  Nebo .    i. 

14.  Seal  Cylinders  i. 

15.  Silver  Vase  of  Entemena i. 

1(5.  Statue  of  Gudea  from  Tello i. 

17.  Stone  Object  Containing  an  lnseri]>- 

tion  of  Nebuchadrezzar  I i. 

IS.  Terra-cot t a  Cylinder  Containing  the 
History  of  the  Capture  of  Babylon 
bv  Cvrus  the  Great  i. 


313 

370 
371 
1298 

330 
329 
329 
330 
330 
412 
341 
341 

345 
369 

2128 

352 
359 
356 

349 
364 
374 
370 

371 

360 
349 
371 
363 
359 
362 


3510 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


19.  Tomb  of  Cyrus iv.  2336 

20.  Worshipping  Heavenly  Bodies. 

21.  Worshipping  the  Lunar  Deity 

BABYLONIAN  IDOLS 

BAG:  SCRIP 

BAKING  BREAD  ON  STONES 

BALANCE  (FROM  EGYPTIAN  TOMB) 

BANK:  MONEY  CHANGER 

BANK  OF  THE  NILE,  ON  THE 

BANNERS  AXD  STANDARDS-  - 

1.  Assyrian  Standards  and  Banners. 

2.  Egyptian  Standards 

3.  Roman  Standards  or  Banners 

BAS-RELIEF  OF  LION  HUNT 

BAS-RELIEF    OF    SEXXACHERIB    BESIEGIXG 

LACHISH 

BATHING  AT  THE  NORTH  END  OF  THE  DEAD 

SEA,  THE  MOUNTAINS  OF  MOAB  IN  THE 

BACKGROUND 
BATTERING-RAM 
BATTLE-AXES  A: 
BATTLE  OF  BETH-HOR 
BATS'  EARS 
BAZAAR  AT  JAFFA 
BEARDED  DARNEL 

BEARDS 

BEDOUINS  PLAYING  ox  PRIMITIVE  INSTRU- 


2150 


ii. 

IV 

80(5 

27S7 

N'EARS  

] 

252 

ORON      .    . 

.               i 

447 

i. 
in 

414 
1  99.") 

°9  1  0 

.    i. 

418 

BEDSTEAD 

BEDS  OF  WHITE  MARL  AXD  SILT  NEAR  THE 

DEAD  SEA  .     .  .    i.     213 

BEDAWIN  OF  MOAB    .  jii.  2070 

BEERSHEBA,    OVERLOOKIXG    THE    DESERT 

(Full  Page)  .  . 

BETHANY 

BETHEL 

BETHPHAGE 

BIRDS — • 


424 

442 
444 
451 


1. 


1300 
484 
720 
737 
1143 
122S 
ii.  1235 


Bird  Sign:  Above  a  Four-horse 
Chariot,  Driven  by  a  Goddess, 
Appears  an  Eagle  Flying  . 

2.  Bittern 

3.  Cormorant 

4.  Crane '_[ 

5.  Egyptian  Fowler.  . 

6.  Gier-eaglc . 

7.  Glecle 

8-  Heron iii. 

9.  Hoopoe iii.  1419 

10.  Kestrel ii.  1345 

11.  Ostriches iv.  2203 

12.  Owl iv.  2205 

13.  Partridge iv.  2255 

14.  Pelican .  .  iv.  2297 

15.  Pigeons iv.  2395 

16.  Quail iv.  2512 

17.  Raven.  iv.  2533 

18.  Short-toed  Eagle  ii.     885 

19.  Sparrow .  v.  2839 

20.  Stork .  .  v.  2863 

21.  Swift v.  2874 

22.  Turtle-dove.  .  .  .  ii.  872 


1300 

482 

484 

1302 


497 
2597 
1880 
2151 

499 
2313 


BIRD  SIGN:  ABOVE  A  FOUR-HORSE  CHARIOT, 
DRIVEN    BY    A    GODDESS,    APPEARS    AN 

EAGLE  FLYING jj 

BIT  AND  BRIDLE j 

BITTERN j 

BLACK-FIGURED  VASE  PAINTING.  .  .  ii 

BLOWPIPE  AND  SMALL  FURNACE iv.  2545 

BOGHAZ-KEUY:     THE    HITTITE    FORTRESS 

CALLED  YENIGE  KALEH ii. 

BOOKS — 

1 .  Assyrian  Book 

-.  Egyptian  Roll  and  Case 

3.  Old  Egyptian  Bookcase 

4.  Plan  of  the  Library  at  Nineveh. 

5.  A  Reader  with  a  Roll 

(i.  Samaritan  High  Priest  with  Scroll. 

7.  Terra-cotta  Cylinder  Containing  the 
History  of  the  Capture  of  Babylon 

by  Cyrus  the  Great "... 

S.   A  Writer,  His  Palette,  and  a  Papyrus 

Leaf 

BOTTLES — 

1.  Assyrian  Glass  Bottles 

2.  Bottles  of  Skins 

3.  Glass  Bottles 

4.  Water  Carriers  with  Skin  Bottles. 

BOTTLES  OF  SKINS 

BOUNDARY  STONE  OF  NEBUCHADREZZAR  1 
BOWING 

Bows.  ARROWS  AND  QUIVER. 

BOXING  WITH  THE  CESTUS 

BREAD — 

1.  Arab  Women  Preparing  Bread 

2.  Baking  Bread  on  Stones 

3.  Egyptian  Cakes  or  Loaves  of  Bread  . 
1.  Egyptians     Kneading     Dough    with 

Their  Feet 

5.  Egyptians     Kneading    Dough    witli 

Their  Hands 

BREASTPLATE 

BREECHES  OF  THE  HIGH  PRIEST 

BRICK  BEARING  THE  NAME  OF  NEBUCHAD- 
REZZAR   i 

BRICK  STAMP  OF  SARGOX  I  i 

BRIDGES — 

1.  Natural  Bridge  at  Lebanon i 

2.  Old  Jisr  el-Mujamia,  Roman  Bridge 

across  Upper  Jordan   River    (Full 
Page) iv 

3.  Roman  Bridge  over  the  Halys i 

BRINGING  HOME  THE  BARLEY  HARVEST.  .    i 

BROAD-TAILED  SHEEP Jv.  2757 

BRONZE  GOAT  HEAD  FROM  TELLO i.     359 

BRONZE    PANEL   FROM    PALACE    GATE    AT 

BALATVAT j.     291 

BROXZE    AND    STONE    WEIGHTS    USED    ix 

NINEVEH.  v.  3079 

BROOK  CHERITH iv.  2217 

BROWN  ANT..  i.     139 
BUILDING  INSCRIPTION-  OF  NABOPOLASSAR  .    i.     356 
BUILDING  INSCRIPTION  OF  NEBUCHADREZ- 
ZAR II i.     349 


496 

510 
510 

1233 
510 
510 

2128 
330 
252 

1172 

516 

2013 

516 


515 
253 
518 

352 
361 

585 


2602 
281 
405 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


3511 


BURIAL — 

1 .  Burial  Procession 

2.  Cutting  the  Flesh 

3.  Interments    in     the    Second     Burial 

Civvo  ut.  Gezer i 

4.  Mourners  About  a  Coucli  on  Which 

Rests  the  Body  of  the  Dead. .  .       . 

5.  Sacrificed  Infant  Buried  in  a  Jar  at, 

Gezer 

Bi  RIAL  PROCESSION" i. 

CAIKV  ALTAR i- 

CAMELS  AT  THE  SEA  OF  GALILEE i. 

CAN" A  OF  GALILEE i- 

CANALS — 

1.  Canals  in  Egypt i- 

2.  Ship-canal  at  Corinth.  ii. 

CANALS  IN  EGYPT i- 

CAPER -  -  iii. 

CARMEL  OF  JUDAH -    i- 

CAHOR  TREE •  -iii- 

CARP  FOUND  IN  THE  SEA  OF  GALILEE  .  .      .  ii. 

CASSIA i- 

CATAPULT  FOR  HURLING  MISSILES  iv. 

CATTLE •   1- 

CAVE    IN    LEBANON    CONVERTED    INTO    A 

SHRINE i- 

CAVES— 

1.  Cave  in  Lebanon  Converted  into  a 

Shrine i- 

'2.  Cenotaph  over  Tomb  of  Sarah  in 
Mosque  of  Hebron  above  Cave  of 
Machpclah  (Full  Page) iii. 

3.  Grotto  of  Jeremiah — "Gordon's  Cal- 

vary"  "• 

-1.  High  Place  of  the  Cave-dwellers  at 
Gezer .  .iv. 

5.  Interments  in  the  Second  Burial  Cave 

at  Gezer iv. 

6.  Mosque  over  the  Cave  of  Machpelah 

at  Hebron ii- 

7.  Plan  of  the  Cave-dwellings  at  Gezer  iii. 

S.  Signs  of  the  Cave-dwellers v. 

9.  Stream  Issuing  from  Cave  at  Afka, 

Lebanon •    i- 

CEDARS   OF   LEBANON   AT  THE    BESHERRI 

GROVE •    !• 

CENOTAPH     OVER     TOMB     OF    SARAH    IN 

MOSQUE    OF   HEBRON  ABOVE  CAVE    OF 

MACHPELAH    (Full  Page) ...  •    iii. 

CENSERS 

CHAMELEON 

CHAMOIS:  PERSIAN  WILD  GOAT  OR  PASAXG  i. 
CHANNEL   OF   WADY    MUHAUWAT,    AS    IT 

ENTERS  THE  DEAD  SEA.  ii. 

CHORAZIN— RUINS  OF  JEWISH  SYNAGOGUE 

(ONLY  RUINS  EXTANT)  (Full  Page) v. 

CITADEL  OF  Ziox 

CITIES  AND  VILLAGES — 

1.  Anathoth,  Jeremiah's  Birthplace  (Full 

Page)..  .-iii 

2.  Approaches  to  a  City  .  i 


3.  Beersheba,   Overlooking   the   Desert 
473  (Full  Page J.  .  .    i. 

770  4.  Chora/in-    Kuins    of    Jewish    Syna- 

gogue   (only    ruins    extant;    (Full 
Page) .  . 
5.   City  Gate.  . 

(i.   City  Wall  at  Gezer 

7.  Gaza 

1221  S.  General  View  of  IVtra  (Full  Page  i 

473  9.  Ground  Plan  of  Olympia  .  . 

10.   Modern  Aral)  Village. 
107  11.  Modern  City  of  Fls  Salt  .  . 

54 S  12.  Modern  Jerusalem  .. 

54S  13.  Nablus  and  Mount  Ebal .  .  .  .iv. 

14.  Ruins  at  Amman — Fac;ade  of  Thea- 

552  ter .  .iv. 

710  15.  Ruins  of  Ancient  Corinth  with  Acro- 

f)52  Corinthus  in  Background ..  ii. 

1445  10.  Streets  of  a  Jewish  City  . 

579  17.  Tel  lei  Hesy.  .  .  .  i. 

1443    ''        IS.  Tell   Hum — Traditional    Ca])ernaum 
1115    i  (Full  Page).  ...  .    i. 

582  19.  Tell  Sandahannah i. 

27Ss  20.  Traditional       Megiddo — Ruins        of 

.581  Palace  and  Public  Buildings  (Full 

Page) iii- 

21.  Walls  of  Tell  cj  Judeideh.  .  .    i. 

CITRON 

CITY  GATE i- 

CITY  WALL  AT  GEZER ii- 

CLAY  TABLET  WITH  SEAL  INSCRIPTION  ..        i. 

CLOTHES-MOTH 

I960       CODE  OF  HAMMURABI  (Insert). .  ..iii. 

COINS — 

1.  Amicus  Rufus •  .iii- 

2.  Bank:  Money  Changer.  .  . 

3.  Chalkous  of  Pontius  Pilate 

1.  Coin  of  Agrippa 

5.  Coin  of  Alexander  Struck  at  Accho  .iii. 

6.  Coin  of  Antigonus.  .  .    i. 

7.  Coin  of  Antiochus  IV  of  Syria iii. 

S.  Coin    of    Antoninus    Pius,    Showing 

Anchor 

9.  Coin  of  Aradus iii. 

10.  Coin   of   Ariarathes   V,    Philometer, 

King  of  Cappadocia 

11.  Coin  of  Augustus i. 

12.  Coin     of     Cyprus     under     Emperor 

Claudius 

13.  Coin  of  Cyrcnc. ii. 

14.  Coin  of  Elis— Zeus  of  Phcidias ii. 

15.  Coin  of  the  Herods .  .iii. 

16.  Coin  of  Licinius,  Roman  Emperor  in 

the  East -    i- 

805   '        17.  Coin  of  Macedonia.  .  ..iii. 

18.  Coin  of  Philippi iv. 

2878  19-  Coin  of  Ptolemy  Soter.  ...  .  .iii. 

3151  20.  Coin  of  Rhodes 

21.  Coin  of  Sarclis iv. 

22.  Coin  Showing  Image  of  Diana.  .  ii. 
1588           23.  Coin  of  Sidon.  .  .  . 

663  24.  Coin  of  Sidon iv. 


2521 


2028 
604 

1278 
004 

1222 
304 

2091 

1854 

2079 

383 
2080 
2079 
2077 

553 
2077 

2777 
2077 


773 
1207 
2079 

281 
1956 
2369 

2078 
25S9 
2692 
961 
2077 
2786 


3512 


2,1. 


1XDKX  OK  ILLUSTRATION^ 


Coin  of  Tarsus.  .  v  2915 


23.  Coin  of  Tyre 


3032 


.  ii.  830 
.iii.  2080 
.iii.  2078 
.  ii.  1173 
.iii.  2079 


39. 
40. 


iii.  2079 

iii.  2080 
20SO 


Talent)  of 


iii.  2080 


27.  Coin  of  Tyre 

28.  Coin  of  Vespasian,  Representing  Ju- 

daea Mourning  for  Her  Captivity  iv.  2236 

29.  Denarius  of  Tiberius 

30.  Denarius  of  Tiberius. 

31.  Half-shekel,  Year  1,  141  ( ?) 

32.  Isthmian  Crowns. 

33.  Mite  of  John  Hyreanus 

34.  Octodrachm    (Egyptian    Talent)    of 

Ptolemy  II 

35.  One-fourth  Shekel ...     ..'.'.'.'.'.'.'.''.'.'  'JL  2079 

36.  Reverse  of  a  Coin  of  Aelia  Capifo- 

1  • 

iii.  2080 

67.  Reverse  of  a  Coin  of  Anfigonus. 
38.  Roman   Coin   Commemorating   Vi 

tory  over  the  Jews 

Shekel,  Simon  Bar-cochba. 

Shekel,  Year  4,  138-7  (?)  EC." .'.'.' .'.'iii.'  207s 

41.  retradrachm    (Attic  Talent)   of  An- 

tiochusIII.  .  ,-      I5fl 

42.  Tetradrachm  of  Augustus  Struck  at 

Antioch 

43.  Tetradrachm    (Ptolemaic 

Alexander  Balas 

44.  Trumpets  on  a  Coin  from  Bar-cochba  iii 

45.  Year  3 

COLISEUM 

COLOCYXTH 

COLONNADE  AT  AMMAN  (RABBAH) 
COMBAT  BETWEEN  KIXG  AND  EVIL  SPIBH 
COMMON  EGYPTIAN  WRITIXG  DURIXG  THE 

BOXDAGE 

COMMOX  EGYPTIAN  WRITING  ix  THE  TIME 

OF  ABRAHAM 

CONSTRUCTION  OF  TABERXACLE,  ACCORDING 

TO  FERGUSSON 
CONVENT  GARDEN,  SINAI. 

CORMORANT 

CORN  AXD  PALM  TREES  ix  GOSHEX. 
CORXER    OF    WALL   OF   JERUSALEM    FROM 

^  KIDRON  VALLEY  (Full  Page) ;;;.  1002 

CORONA  OF  MIXIMUM  TYPE. 
COUCH  BED  WITH  HEAD  REST. 

CRANE 

CROSS-SECTION  OF  XILOMETER. 
CROSS-SECTIONS — 

1.  Cross-section  of  Xilometer.  . 

2.  Geological  Cross-section  of  Southern 

Palestine 

3.  Map  and  Longitudinal  Section  of  the 

Dead  Sea 

4.  Section  from  the  Mediterranean 

Moab  (after  Lartet)  . 

5.  Transverse  Section  of  the  Dead  Sea 
CUMMIN 

Ct  \EIFORM  TABLET  FROM  BOGHAZ-KEUY. 
CUTTING  THE  FLESH. 


91 

2!)9S 
2078 
2;>05 
12S7 
2521 
2333 

3125 


2S90 

2804 

720 

1280 


MIC, 


!146 


S03 


to 


1216 
801 
766 
2,81 
770 


DAGON 

DATE  PALM  WITH  FRUIT. 


n.  801 


803 


802 


to 


DEAD  SEA— 

1.  Bathing  at  the  North  End  of  the 
Dead  Sea,  the  Mountains  of  Moab 
m  the  Background  ......  ii  806 

!.  Beds  of  White  Marl  and  Silt  near  the 

Dead  Sea  ............  i     9J3 

3.  Channel  of  Wady  Muhauwat,  as  It 

Enters  the  Dead  Sea  .  .  \  ......         j;      so- 

I  •  Jebel  Usdum  from  the  Sout  h,  Looking 
over  the  Mud  Flat  Covered  by  the 
Sea  in  High  Water  ........... 

5.   Map  and  Longitudinal  Section  of  the 
Dead  Sea  ............... 

0.  Xorth  End  of  the  Dead  Sea,  Border- 
ing the  Plain  of  Jericho.  .  . 

7.  Salt  Cliffs  on  the  East  Side  of  Jebel 

Usdum  ......... 

8.  Sort  ion  from  the  Mediterranean 

Moab  (after  Lartet) 
'•>•  Shells  from  Ancient  Bed  of  the  Salt 
Sea  ............... 

1<>.  Shore  Line  at  Southwest  Corner  of  ' 
the  Dead  Sea  ...........  jj 

11.  Transverse  Section  of  the  Dead  Sea    ii' 
-  View  from  Ain  Jidy,  Looking  South    ii 

13.  View  from  the  Heights  behind  Ma- 

sada  ........... 

14.  View  from   Mount  of  Olives  Over- 

looking the  Dead  Sea  (Full  Page)  . 
DELUGE  TABLET,  THE. 
DEXARIUS  OF  TIBERIUS  ..... 

DESERT  OF  EDOM    Ix  THE 
DIAXA  .............. 

DippiXG  SKIXS  IN  VATS  OF  SUMACH. 

Discus  THROWER 

DOORWAY  WITH   VOLUTED  SLABS  AT  LA- 

CHISH    .......... 

DOTH  AX. 

DOUBLE    PIPE    WITH    ACCOMPAXIMEXT   OF 
CLAPPING  OF  HANDS 

DiiF.ss  — 

1  .  Ancient  Asiatic  Crowns 
.  Ancient    Painting    of    an    Egyptian 
Princess  (Full  Page)  .  . 

3.  Assyrian  Fringed  Garment 

4.  Bag:  Scrip..;... 

5.  Breeches  of  the  High  Priest 

6.  Dress  of  Egyptian  Priests 
Egyptian  Amulets  and  Earrings. 
Egyptian  Anklets  ....... 

Egyptian  and  Assyrian  Bracelets 
Egyptian  Sandals!  ............ 

Egyptian  Signet  Rings  and  Impres- 

sions Made  from  Them  .......... 

12.  Fringed  Skirts  from  Tomb  at  Bab-el 
Melook  ..............  ' 

.  Median  Dress  .......  .'  .'iii.'  2017 

.  Modern  Druse  Headdress  ..........  ii.     878 

15.   Xative  of  Jericho  ............  ::      o-ro 

16-  Painting  at  Beni  Hassan 

17.  Phylacteries  for  Head  and  Arm 

18.  Sandals.  . 


807 


1216 


802 
804 

.     808 

809 

802 

374 

830 

832 

843 

2908 

1172 

235 

870 


iii.  2099 


762 


8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 


iv. 

.  ii. 

.  i. 

i. 

iv. 
i. 
i. 
i. 

.  iv. 


2360 


377 
518 

2440 
127 
136 
513 

2779 

2594 
1146 


11. 
.  ii. 
iv. 

ii. 


876 
877 
2393 
879 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


19.  Sculpture  on  Behistun  Rock ii. 

20.  Shepherd  of  Bethany ii. 

21.  Woman's      Headdress      and      Veil 

(Modern) ii. 


877 
87G 


DRESS  OF  EGYPTIAN  PRIESTS iv.  2440 

DRESSING  HIDES  IN  A  SYRIAN  TANNERY  .  .  \.  2909 

DRUMS iii.  2100 

DRY  WADY  IN  EDOM i.     524 

EA i.     370 

EAST — A  CORNER  OF  THE  MILKY  WAY.  .    .    i.     306 

EAST — STAR  SWARMS i.     307 

EASTERN  WATERPOTS v.  3075 

EBONY ii.     894 

EGYPT — • 

1.  Ancient  Egyptian  Baskets i.     413 

2.  Ancient  Egyptian  Hinges iii.   1393 

3.  Ancient      Egyptian      Paintings      on 

Cloth  (Full  Page) ii.     914 

4.  Ancient    Egyptian    Temple — Philae 

(Full  Page) ii.  1034 

5.  Ancient    Painting    of    an    Egyptian 

Princess  (Full  Page) .iv.  2360 

G.  Balance  (from  Egyptian  Tomb) ....  i.  380 

7.  On  the  Bank  of  the  Nile iv.  2145 

S.  Canals  in  Egypt i.  552 

9.  Common  Egyptian  AVriting  during 

the  Bondage v. 

10.  Common  Egyptian   AVriting  in   the 

Time  of  Abraham v. 

11.  Dress  of  Egyptian  Priests iv. 

12.  Drums iii. 

13.  Egyptian  Amulets  and  Earrings .  .  .  .    i. 

14.  Egyptian  Anklets i. 

15.  Egyptian  and  Assyrian  Bracelets. .  .  .    i. 

16.  Egyptian  Ax i. 

17.  Egyptian  Bellows i. 

18.  Egyptian  Cakes  or  Loaves  of  Bread,    i. 

19.  Egyptian  Cart i. 

20.  Egyptian  Cymbals iii. 

21.  Egyptian     Dance — from    Tomb     at 

Thebes ii. 

22.  Egyptian  Fowler ii. 

23.  Egyptian  Fuller ii. 

24.  Egyptian  Key iii. 

25.  Egyptians    Kneading    Dough     with 

Their  Feet i. 

26.  Egyptians    Kneading    Dough    with 

Their  Hands i. 

27.  Egyptian  Lyre  Held  Horizontally.  .  .iii. 

28.  Egyptian  Manner  of  AVearing  Hair  .  ii. 

29.  Egyptian  Roll  and  Case iv. 

30.  Egyptian  Sandals iv. 

31.  Egyptian  Signet  Rings  and  Impres- 

sions Made  from  Them iv.  2594 

32.  Egyptian  Slinger i.     252 

33.  Egyptian  Standards.  .  .  ._ i.     384 

34.  Egyptian  Stone  Knives iii.  1815 

35.  Egyptian  Swords i.     252 

36.  Egyptian  Threshing-floor v.  2976 

37.  Egyptian  Throne v.  2976 

38.  Egyptian  AA'ar  Chariot i.     595 


3124 

2440 

2100 

127 

13G 

513 

341 

432 

51G 

581 

2101 

11G9 
1143 
1148 
1794 

515 

515 
2097 
1320 
2597 
2779 


3513 

39.  Egyptian  Water  Wheel iii.  1493 

40.  Elephant 's  Tusks  Brought  to  Tlioth- 

meslil iii.  1544 

41.  First  Cataract  of  the  Nile ii.     907 

42.  Great  Pyramid  of  Khiifu ii.     908 

43.  High  Priest  (Egyptian).  ...  .  .iv.  2441 

44.  "Israel"  Stele  in  Museum  at  Cairo 

(Full  Page) iii.   1516 

45.  King  Merenptah ii.     912 

4G.  Large  Foot  Press  (Egyptian) v.  30S7 

47.  Map  of  Ancient  Alexandria ..  .    i.       91 

48.  Modern  Egyptian  Writing  Materials  v.  3119 

49.  Obelisk  at  On iv.  2193 

50.  Obelisk  of  Thothmes  I.  .  ii.     909 

51.  Octodrachm    (Egyptian    Talent)    of 

Ptolemy  II iv.  2499 

52.  Old  Egyptian  Bookcase iii.  1886 

53.  Pharaoh iv.  2359 

5  I.  Plan  of  Egyptian  Garden  with  House, 

Temple  or  Chapel,  Vineyard,  Tanks 
of  Water  or  Ponds,  and  Summer 
Houses ii.  1174 

55.  Potters  at  Work  (Egyptian) iv.  2424 

56.  Scarab    with    Name   of    Amcnhotep 

III,  from  Gezer ii.   1223 

•~>7.  Setil ii.     910 

58.  Statue  of  Rameses  II  at  Luqsor ii.     911 

59.  Statue  of  Rameses  II  at  Memphis. .  .  iii.  2031 

60.  Various  Forms  of  Egyptian  Harp-;.   .  iii.  2099 

EGYPTIAN  AMULETS  AND  EARRINGS i.     127 

EGYPTIAN  ANKLETS i.     136 

EGYPTIAN  AND  ASSYRIAN  BRACELETS i.     513 

EGYPTIAN  Ax i.    341 

EGYPTIAN  BELLOWS  .  J.     432 

EGYPTIAN  CAKES  OR  LOAVES  OF  BREAD.  ..    i.     516 

EGYPTIAN  CART i.     581 

EGYPTIAN  CYMBALS iii.  2101 

EGYPTIAN  DANCE — FROM  TOMB  OF  THEHES  ii.  1169 

EGYPTIAN  FOWLER ii.  1143 

EGYPTIAN  FULLER ii.  1148 

EGYPTIAN  KEY iii.  1794 

EGYPTIAN  LYRE  HELD  HORIZONTALLY iii.  2097 

EGYPTIAN  MANNER  OF  WEARING  HAIR.  .  .  ii.  1320 

EGYPTIAN  ROLL  AND  CASE iv.  2597 

EGYPTIAN  SANDALS iv.  2779 

EGYPTIAN  SIGNET  RINGS  AND  IMPRESSIONS 

MADE  FROM  THEM iv.  2594 

EGYPTIANS  KNEADING  DOUGH  WITH  THEIR 

FEET j.  515 

EGYPTIANS  KNEADING  DOUGH  WITH  THEIR 

HANDS i.  515 

EGYPTIAN  SLINGER i.  252 

EGYPTIAN  STANDARDS i.  384 

EGYPTIAN  STONE  KNIVES iii.  1815 

EGYPTIAN  SWORDS i.  252 

EGYPTIAN  THRESHING-FLOOR.  .  .  v.  2976 

EGYPTIAN  THRONE \-.  2976 

EGYPTIAN  WAR  CHARIOT i.  595 

EGYPTIAN  WATER  WHEEL iii.  1493 

ELAM,  ELAMITES — - 

1.  The  Installation  of  1'inmaii-igas .  .  .  .  ii.     920 

2.  Last  Stand  of  Te-umman.  .  .  ii.     921 


3514 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


3.  Naram-Sin  ...............  ii 

4.  Presentation  of  Uminan-igas  to  His 

Subjects  by  the  Assyrian  General,  ii 

5.  The  Spinning  "\Yoman  .............  ii 

ELEPHANT'S  TUSKS  BROUGHT  TO  THOTIIMFS 

111  ..............................  _ 

ELEVATION  OF  HOUSE  FROM  COURT  ..... 

EX-DOR  ................... 

EN-GEDI  .............  ji 

ENGRAVING  ox  A  BABYLONIAN  CYLIXDEH 
REPRESENTIXG  THE  Sux  GOD  AXD  OXE 
OF  His  PRIESTS,  FROM  AX  ............  i. 

EXTRAXCE  TO  KoUYUXJIK  ...............  iy. 

EXTRAXCE  T(.)  THE  SlK  ...........  iv. 

EXCAVATING  FOR  CUNEIFORM  TABLETS  AT 

BoGHAZ-KEUY  .............  .     j, 

EXCAVATIONS—  * 

1.  Excavating  for  Cuneiform  Tablets  al 

Boghaz-keuy  ...................    i. 

2.  Excavations  at  Jerielio  ............  iv. 

3.  Excavations  on  Southeastern  Hill  of 

Jerusalem  (Full  Page)  ...........  iv. 

4.  Plan   Showing   Results   of   Warren's 

Excavations  at  "Robinson's  Arch"  iii. 

5.  Stamped   Jar-handles   Excavated   at 

Gezer  ................  iv. 

6.  Triple    Gate  —  German    Excavations 

at  Xablus  (Full  Page)  ...........  ii. 

EXCAVATIONS  AT  JERICHO  ..............  iv. 

EXCAVATIONS  ox  SOUTHEASTERN-  HILL  OF 

JERUSALEM  (Full  Page)  ...............  iv. 

EXTERIOR  OF  GARDEN  TOMB  ......  .    i. 

EXTERIOR  OF  POTTERY  .....  iv. 

EXTREMITY  OF  THE  GRAXD  COLOXXADE  AT 

GERASA  .......................  j[. 

EZEKIEL'S  TEMPLE  PLAN  .  .  .  v. 

FACSIMILE  OF  CODEX  ]-;PHRAEMI  UESCHIP- 
TUS  ..............................  v 

FACSIMILE  OF  CODEX  SIXAITICUS  .........  v. 

FACSIMILE  MINUSCULE  MA.VUSCRIPT  ......  v. 

FIELD  OF  BOAZ  ...............  i 

Fl(' 


919      Fox 


921 
922 

154} 

1430 

944 

945 


371 
2149 

271 1 


277 
2230 


1012 

2233 

113S 
2230 

2220 

53 1 

2120 


FIGHTING  WITH  WILD  BEASTS  ............ 

FIRE  ALTARS  ........................  ; 

FIRST  CATARACT  OF  THE  NILE  ........... 

FISHERS  MEXDIXG  THEIR  NETS  BY  THE  SEA 
OF  GALILEE  ....................... 

FISHES  OF  THE  SEA  OF  GALILEE  .......... 

FISHING  — 

1.  Carp  Found  in  the  Sea  of  Galilee.  .  . 

2.  Fishers  Mending  Their  Nets  by  the 

Sea  of  Galilee  .................. 

3.  Fishes  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee  ........ 

4.  Fishing  on  the  Sea  of  Galilee  .  .          . 


1115 


FLAX  . 


FOOT  RACE 

FOREIGN  CAPTIVES  EMPLOYED  ix  MAKING 

BRICKS  AT  THEBES 

FOUNDATION  SACRIFICE  FOUND  AT  GEZER.. 

FOUNTAIN*  AT  ASKAR 

FOUNTAIN  AT  KUAN  MIXYEH,  THE 


11.  1144 

FRAGMEXTS  OF  INSCRIBED  VASES  OF  THE 

EARLY  SUMERIAN  PERIOD i.     359 

FRANKINCENSE 

FRINGED  SKIRTS  FROM  TOMB   AT  BAB-EL 

MELOOK ij.   1146 

FRONT  ELEVATION  OF  TEMPLE.  .  .  .  v.  2938 

(  JAMES — 

1.  Boxing  with  the  Cestus ii.   1172 

2.  Discus  Thrower ij    1172 

3.  Fighting  with  Wild  Beasts ii.  H72 

4.  Foot  Race ii.   i173 

5.  Isthmian  Crowns ii.  1173 

0.  Rums      at      Amman — Facade      of 

Theater Jv.  2521 


1171 
1178 

1179 
IDOti 
1394 
2714 


7.  Theater  at  Gerasa 

GAZA 

GAZELLE 

(  JECKO 

GEHENX'A  AND  AKELDAMA 

GENERAL  VIEW  OF  PETRA  (Full  Page) 
GEOLOGICAL  CROSS-SECTION  OF  SOUTHERN- 
PALESTINE i.     212 

GEOLOGICAL  MAP  OF  BIBLE  LANDS  (Insert ).  ii.   1210 

(  i  ETHSEMAXE ii.     1221 

GEZER — • 

1.  City  Wall  at  Gezer ii.   1222 

2.  Foundation  Sacrifice  Found  at  Gezer  i.     550 

3.  Hebrew  Inscribed  Tablet  from  Gezer  i.     105 

4.  High  Place  of  the  Cave-dwellers  at 

Gezer iv.  2234 

5.  "Household  God"  from  Gezer iii.  1455 

0.  Interments  in  the  Second  Burial  Cave 

at  Gezer iv.  2232 

7.  Isometric  Sketch  of  a  House  at 

Ge/er .  .  iii.  1435 

S.  Lamp  and  Bowls  Discovered  at 

Gezer.  .  lv.  2234 

1391 


9.  Pillars  and  Hollow  Stone  of  the  High 
Place  at  Gezer iii 

10.  Plan  of  the  Baths  in  the  Castle  at 

Gezer.  .  i.     414 

11.  Plan  of  the  Cave-dwellings  at  Gezer.  .hi.   1435 

12.  Reservoir  at  Gezer .    i.     658 

13.  Sacrificed  Infant  Buried  in  a  Jar  at 

( lexer ii    1224 

14.  Scarab  with  Name  of  Amenhotep  III. 

from  Gezer ij.   1223 

15.  Series  of  Baths  in  the  Castle  at  Gezer  i.     415 
10.  Stamped   Jar-handles   Excavated   at 

Gezer.  .  iv.  2233 

17.  Stone  Altar  of  Gezer i.     108 

''GlDEOX's    FOUXTAIX"    IX   THE     PLAIN     OF 

ESDRAELOX ii.     993 

GlER-EAGLE ii.    1228 

GIVING  A  BLESSING., j.     329 

GLASS  BOTTLES ii.  1233 

GLASS  VASES ii.  1233 

GLEDE ii.  1235 

GOD  AMON  HOLDING  CAPTIVE  THE  CITIES 

OF  JUDAH  FORSlIlSHAK,  TllE    .  .     iv.    2778 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


3515 


GOING  TO  MAKKET i-     534 

GOING  TO  MARKET iii.   19915 

GOLDEN  CANDLESTICK i.     553 

GREAT  COURT,  INCLUDING  ROYAL  BUILD- 
INGS      v.  21)32 

GUEAT  PYRAMID  OF  KHUFU  ii.     90S 

"THE  GREAT  SEA"  UNDEK  THE  TEMPLE.        i.     (55s 
GREAVES  AXU  SANDALS.  .  ...    i.     254 

GREECE — - 

1.  Acropolis  and  Areopagus,  Athens  ...    i.     31!) 

2.  Aphrodite ii.   12!)S 

Areopagus  at  Athens i.     23!) 

Athena  Promachos.  ii.   12!)S 

5.  Bird     Sign:      Above    a     Four-horse 

Chariot,  Driven  by  a  Goddess, 
Appears  an  Eagle  Flying ii.  1300 

6.  Black-figured  Vase  Painting ii.   1302 

7.  Coin  of  Elis — Zeus  of  Pheidias ii.   1297 

8.  Ground  Plan  of  Olyinpia ii.   1299 

9.  Head  of  the  Bearded  Dionysus ii.   1300 

10.  Heavy-armed  Greek  Soldier i.     251 

1 1.  Isthmian  Crowns ii.   1 173 

12.  Mourners  about  a  Couch  ou  Which 

Rests  the  Body  of  the  Dead ii.  1303 

13.  Orestes  Pursued  by  Two  Erinyes. ,  .  .  ii.  1304 

14.  Persian  Satrap  Dictating  Terms  to 

Grecian  Chiefs  at  the  Gate  of  a 
City.  (Bas-relief  from  Lycian 
Monument.) ii. 

15.  Plan    of    the    Precincts    of    Apollo's 

Temple  at  Delphi ii. 

16.  Purification ii. 

17.  River-god ii. 

18.  Ruins  of  Ancient  Corinth  with  Acro- 

Corinthus  in  Background ii. 

19.  Ruins  of  Elcusis ii. 

20.  Ship-canal  at  Corinth ii. 

21.  Temple  of  Jupiter  at  Athens i. 

22.  Tetradrachm   (Attic  Talent)   of  An- 

tiochus  III i. 

23.  Votive  Offering ii. 

2  1.  Zeus  from  Mylasa ii- 

GREEK    PAPYRUS    CONTAINING    MATTHEW 

1:1-9.12.13.14-20 iv. 

GROTTO    OF    JEREMIAH — "Gordon's     Cal- 


vary' 


GROUND  PLAN  OF  OLYMPIA ii. 

GROUND  PLAN  (OP  TABERXACLK),  ACCORD- 
ING TO  KKIL v. 

GROUP  OF  ANCIENT  ARMS i. 

GROUP  OF  CONIES ii. 

GROUP  OF  LEPERS  BEGGING.  .  .  .  .iii. 


1301 
1302 
1300 

711 
1303 
710 
320 

159 

1302 
1297 

2241 

127(5 
1299 

2889 
251 
COS 

1S07 


HALF-SHEKEL,  YEAR  1,  141  (?)  BC iii.  207S 

HAMMURABI — 

1 .  Code  of  Hammurabi  (Insert) iii.  1854 

2.  Hammurabi  Receiving  the  Laws.  .  .  .  ii.   1328 

3.  Text  of  the  Code  of  Hammurabi. .  .  .  ii.   1329 

HAMMURABI  RECEIVING  THE  LAWS ii.  132S 

HANGING iv.  2505 

HARP,  LYRE  AXD  DOUBLE  PIPE  WITH  MEN 

AXD  WOMEN  SINGING  .  .  .  .iii.  2095 


HEAD  OF  THE  BEARDED  DIONYSIS ii.  1300 

HEAD  FROM  OLD  SA.MSOUX i.  277 

HEADS    OF    AMOIUTES,    AKI.V    TO    NORTH 

AFRICAN .    i.  1 19 

HEADS  OF  PHILISTINES.  .                             .  .  . iv.  2378 
HEATHEX  DEITIES  - 

1.  Ahura  Ma/da                                          .    iv.  2332 

2.  Aphrodite.                                                    ii.  12!)8 

3.  Ashtoreth .    i.  271 

4.  Athena  Promachos .  .                              .  ii.  1298 

5.  Baal .    i.  315 

<>.  Babylonian  Idols                                       i.  3'59 

7.  Coin  of  Elis — Zeus  of  Pheidias.          .  ii.  1297 

8.  Dagon ii.  77(5 

9.  Diana ii.  813 

10.  Ea i.  370 

1 1 .  From  an  Engraving  on  a  Babylonian 

Cylinder    Representing    the     Sun 

God  and  One  of  His  Priests i.  371 

12.  The  God  Amon  Holding  Captive  the 

Cities  of  Judah  for  Shishak iv.  2778 

13.  Head  of  the  Bearded  Dionysus.  .       .  ii.  1300 

14.  "'Household  God"  from  Gezer iii.  1455 

15.  Xebo i.  371 

1(5.  Priest-king  and  God  of  Cultivation  iii.  1399 

17.  River-god .  .                    ii.  1300 

18.  Storm-god  Tessupas iii.  1401 

19.  Worshipping  Heavenly  Bodies i.  370 

20.  Worshipping  the  Lunar  D:-ity i.  371 

21.  Zeus  from  Mylasa ii.  1297 

HEAVEN,  THE  EARTH    AXD    THE  ABYSSES 

(SdllAPARELLl's  HEBREW  WoRLI)) i.  315 

HEAVY-ARMED  GREEK  SOLDIER i.  251 

HEBREW  INSCRIBED  TABLET  FROM  GE/ER.  i.  105 

HEIGHTS  BEIIIXD  MASADA ii.  809 

HELMET i-  253 

HERCULES  AXD  DRACO i-  309 

HERON iii-  1384 

HIEROGLYPHIC  WRITING v.  3118 

HIGH  PLACE  OF  THE  CAVE-DWELLERS  AT 

GEZER iv.  2234 

HIGH  PRIEST iv.  2441 

HILLS  AXD  VALLEYS  OF  JERUSALEM  WITH 

MODERX  NAMES iii-  1599 

HITTITB  KING  AXD  DAUGHTER iii.  1398 

HITTITE  LION,  BOGHAZ-KEUY;  AT  THE 

"Liox  GATE" i.  278 

HlTTITES— 

1.  Boghaz-keuy:    The  Hit  the  Fortress 

Called  Yenige  Kaleh ii.  1138 

2.  Hittite  King  and  Daughter iii.  1398 

3.  Hittite  Lion,   Boghaz-keuy;    at  the 

"Lion  Gate" i-  278 

4.  Hittite  Sculptures,  Yasili-kaya  (1).  .    i.  279 

5.  Hittite  Sculptures,  Yasili-kaya  (2) .  .    i.  279 
(i.  Hittite  Warrior — Boghaz-keuy i.  278 

7.  Hittite  Warrior- -Senjirli iii.  1400 

8.  Inscription    and    Mutilated    Figure 

from  Jcrabis iii.  1401 

9.  Passage-frieze,  Yasili-kaya iii.  1399 

10.  Priest-king  and  God  of  Cultivation,   iii.  1399 

11.  Storm-god  Tessupas iii.  1401 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATION'S 


27!) 
278 

1400 
55 

1419 


Shili 


1  130 
64 


HITTITE  SCULPTURES,  YASIH-KAVA 
HITTITE  WARRIOR— BOGHAZ-KEUY 

HITTITE  WARRIOR— SEN.IIRLI 

HOODED  SNAKE  .... 

HOOPOE 

HOUSE— 

I.   Doorway    with     Volut 

Lachish 

!.  Elevation  of  House  from  Court  .  .    .  .ii 
3.  The  Inn  of  the  Good  Samaritan  i 

I.  Isometric    Sketch    of    a    House    at 

Gezer jjj 

5.  Living-room  of  House iji 

0.  Palace  of  Oinri  and  Ahab  at  Samaria  iv 

7.  Plan  of  House iii 

8.  Traditional  House  of  Ananias ii 

9.  Traditional  House  of  Simon  the  Tan- 

ner   

10.  Traditional       Megiddo— Ruins       of 

Palace  and  Public  Buildings  (Full 

PaSe)  •  •  iii.  2028 

11.  Window iii    j^.j(. 

"HOUSEHOLD  GOD"  FROM  GEZER    .  .  .iii.  1455 

HUMAN  BODY — 


2192 

1430 

780 


iii.   1732 


"Israel"  Stele  in  Museum  at  Cairo 
(Full  Page) 

13.  Moabite  Stone 

14.  Monolith  of  Shalmancser  II ..  7  "430 

15.  Niches  and  Tablets  at  Banias  (Full 

Page) 

!•>.  Signs  of  the  Cave-dwellers. 

17.  Siloam  Inscription— Writing  at  Jeru- 
salem at  Time  of  Hezekiah 

IS.  Stone  Object  Containing  an  Inscrip- 
tion of  Nebuchadrezzar  1 

19.  Title  on  the  Cross 

20.  Warning  Tablet  of  Herod's  Temple  .iv.  2254 
INSECTS — • 


1510 

2071 


536 
3121 

v.  3120 

35.3 

29SS 


1.  Assyrian  Manner  of  Wearing  Hair       ii 

2.  Beards , 

3.  Egyptian  Manner  of  Wearing  Hair. .  ii 

4.  Group  of  Lepers  Begging .  .  .  .  iii 

5.  Modern  Jew  of  Jericho   with    Long 

Side  Locks jj 

6.  Painted  Eyes - 

HUNTING  DEER  IN  A.V  ENCLOSED  FIELD      .  iii. 

HVDHA    AXD    THE    NEIGHBORING    CoXSTEL- 
LATIOXS     . 


1320 
418 

1320 

1SG7 

1321 
1070 
1441 


109 
14li9 
(it 


.iii.  1401 


IMPLEMENTS  or  AGRICULTURE.  . 
IMPRESSION  OF  A  SEAL  CYLINDER.  . 
INCENSE    ALTARS    OF    SANDSTONE 

ix  THE  ROCK  SHKIXE  AT  SIXAI.  i 

IXK-WELLS  AXD  PEN-CASE  WITH  I.VK-\VKLL  iii 

INN  OF  THE  GOOD  SAMARITAN,  THE.  i 

INSCRIBED  TABLET  IMPRESSED  WITH  SEALS  iv.  2152 
INSCRIPTION  AXD  MUTILATED  FIGURE  FROM 

JKHAHIS 

INSCRIPTIONS— 

1.  Asshur-bani-pal's    Account    of    His 

Restoration  of  the  Stage-tower  at 
Nippur 

2.  Brick  Bearing  the  Name  of  Nebu- 

chadrezzar    ; 

3.  Brick  Stamp  of  Sargon  I 

4.  Building  Inscription  of  Nabopolassar  i. 

5.  Building    Inscription   of    Nebuchad- 

rezzar II i 

6.  Clay  Tablet  with  Seal  Inscription   .  ]  i' 

7.  Cuneiform  Tablet  from  Boghaz-keuy  i. 

8.  The  Deluge  Tablet '  i.     374 

9.  Hebrew  Inscribed  Tablet  from  Gezer  i.     105 

10.  Inscribed     Tablet     Impressed     with 

Scals-  •  iv.  2152 

11.  Inscription    and    Mutilated     Figure 

from  Jerabis iii    1401 


352 
301 
350 

349 
304 
281 


1.  Brown  Ant, 

2.  Clothes-moth 

3.  Locust  ...... 

4.  Scarlet  Insect 


0.  Silkworm 

7.  Spider 

8.  Sticks  of  Dried  Locusts  on  Sculptures 


.    i.     139 
.iii.  2091 
.iii.  1908 
v.  3109 
iv.  2703 
iv.  2791 
2840 


1908 
920 
531 


from  Kouyunjik 

IXSTALLATION  OF  UMMAX-IGAS 

INTERIOR  OF  GARDEN  TOMB  . 

INTERIOR  OF  POTTERY  .............  jv    2425 

IXTEKIOR  OF  TOMB  AT  MARISSA  ........    ,iv'  2228 

INTERIOR  OF  TOMBS  OF  THE  KINGS  ......   i.    531 

LYTKRIOR  OF  VIZIR  KHAX,  ALEPPO  .....  .  .  m\  1470 

INTERMENTS  IN  THE  SECOND  BURLYL  C  AVF 
.  AT  GEZER.,          .................... 

)METRic  SKETCH  OF  A  HOUSE  AT  GEZER  iii 
ISRAEL"   STELE   ix   MUSEUM   AT  CAIRO 
(Full  Page)  .......................   ^ 

ISTHMIAN  CROWNS  .  . 


1435 


1510 
1173 


.iii.  1540 
.hi.  1548 
.iii.  1550 


801 


.iii.  1584 


JABBOK,  THE 

JACKAL 

JACOB'S  WELL 

JEBEL  USDUM  FROM  THE  SOUTH,  LOOKING 

OVER  THE  MUD  FLAT  COVERED  isy  THE 

SEA  IN  HKIH  WATER 

JEHU'S  TRIBUTE— FROM  OBELISK  OF  SH  VL- 

MAXESER 

JERUSALEM — 

1.  Citadel  of  Zion v_ 

2.  Corner  of  Wall  of  Jerusalem   from 

Kidron  Valley  (Full  Page) iii.  1602 

!.  Excavations  on  Southeastern  Hill  of 

Jerusalem  (Full  Page) iv.  2226 

4.  Front  Elevation  of  Temple v.  2938 

5.  Great  Court,  Including  Royal  Build- 

v.  2932 

The  Great  Sea  "under  the  Temple  .   i.     658 

7.  Hills  and  Valleys  of  Jerusalem  with 

Modern  Names jij_  1599 

8.  Jerusalem  Beggars j      425 

9.  Jerusalem  of  the  Jebusitcs,  as  Cap- 

_  tured  by  David m-.  1614 

).  Kidron,  Looking  Southeast  from  the 

W  all  of  Jerusalem iii.  1793 

11.  Letter  from  the  Governor  of  Jerusa- 
lem about  1375  BC v.  3120 


OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


1621 
Kill 

1612 
2931 
65'.) 
1007 


1006 
1613 
1603 


160X 

3120 

3  IT)  I 

2930 
1619 


12.  Modern  Jerusalem iii 

13.  Plan  of  the  Environs  of  Jerusalem  .  .  iii 

14.  Plan  Showing  Results  of  Warren's 

Excavations  at  "Robinson's  Arch  "  iii, 

15.  Plan  of  Solomon's  Temple .  v. 
10.  Pools  of  Solomon  .  .  i. 
17.  Probable  Course  of  Solomon's  Wall.  iii. 
IS.  Probable  Course  of  the  Three  Walls 

Described  by  Josephus Iii. 

19.  Probable  Course  of  Walls  and  Posi- 

tion of  the  Principal  Gates  from 
Hezekiah  till  Long  after  Nehemiah  iii. 

20.  "Robinson's  Arch" iii. 

21.  St.  Stephen's  Gate iii. 

22.  Semi-diagrammatic   Plan   of    "War- 

ren's Shaft"  and  Other  Rock  Pas- 
sages  iii. 

23.  Siloam   Inscription — Writing  at  Je- 

rusalem at  the  Time  of  Hezekiah..  .  v. 

24.  Slope  of  Zion — Tyropoeon  Valley  at 

Right v. 

25.  Solomon's  Temple — Schick's  Model 

(Full  Page) v. 

26.  Tower  of  David iii. 

27.  Typical    Grove   of    Olive    Trees    at 

Jerusalem iv. 

28.  "Up  to  Jerusalem"  from  the  Inn  of 

the  Good  Samaritan iv. 

29.  Warning  Tablet  of  Herod's  Temple  .  iv. 

30.  The  Water-supply iii. 

JERUSALEM  BEGGARS i. 

JERUSALEM  OF  THE  JEBUSITES,  AS  CAPTURED 

BY  DAVID iii. 

JEWELRY — 

1.  Ancient  Asiatic  Crowns ii. 

2.  Ancient  Seals  from  Originals  in  the 

British  Museum iv. 

3.  Egyptian  Amulets  and  Earrings  .  .  .  .    i. 

4.  Egyptian  Anklets i. 

5.  Egyptian  and  Assyrian  Bracelets. .  .  .    i. 

6.  Egyptian  Signet  Rings  and  Impres- 

sions Made  from  Them iv. 

JEWISH  MNEMONIC  FRINGES,  9TH  CENTURY 

BC.  v.  3117 

JEWISH  TEMPLE  OP  LEONTOPOLIS i.     235 

JORDAN  LEAVING  THE  SEA  OF  GALILEE  ....  iii.  1733 
"JOSHUA'S  OAK" — A  TEREBINTH iv.  2172 

KESTREL ii.  1345 

KIDRON,   LOOKING  SOUTHEAST  FROM  THE 

WALL  OF  JERUSALEM iii.  1798 

KING  MERENPTAH ii.     912 

KISSING  THE  HAND i.     329 

KNEELING i.     ;«Q 

LAMP  AND  BOWLS  DISCOVERED  AT  GEZER.  .  iv.  2234 
LAMPS — 

1.  Figures  1,2 iii.  1825 

2.  Figures  3,  4,  6,  14 iii.  1825 

3.  Figure  5 Hi.  1825 

4.  Figures  7,  8,  9,  10,  11 iii.  1826 

5.  Figure  12  .  .iii.   1826 


6.  Figure  13 iii. 

7.  Lamp    and     Bowls     Discovered     at 

Gezer iv. 

•V  Slumped  Jar-handles,  Lamp  and 
Iron  Implements  from  Tombs  at 
Beit  Jibrin iv. 

LAMPS:  FIGURES  1-14.  .  .  .iii.   1X25- 

LARGE  FOOT  PRESS  (EGYPTIAN; v. 

LARGE  VI.VK  AT  JERICHO  .  v. 

LAST  STAND  OF  TE-UMMAN  .  ii. 

LATERAL  VIEW  OF  TABERNACLE,  ACCORDING 
TO  KK.V.YEUY v. 

LEEK.  .  .    iii. 


3517 

1826 
2234 


LENTIL iii. 

LEOPARD iii. 

LETTER  FROM  THE  GOVERNOR  OF  JERUSA- 
LEM ABOUT  1375  BC v. 

LINTEL  STONES i. 

LION iii. 

LION  GATE  AT  BOGHAZ-KEUY iii. 

LITTER iii. 

LIVING-ROOM  OF  HOUSE iii. 

LOCUST iii. 

LOOPHOLES     THROUGH     WHICH 
WERE  SHOT 

LYRE  HELD  PERPENDICULARLY.  . 


ARROWS 


2122 

2254 

1609 

425 


1614 


270X 
127 
136 

513 


MAGDALA iii. 

MAKING  A  PAPYRUS  BOAT iv. 

MANDRAKE iii. 

MANUSCRIPTS — 

1.  Ancient    Manuscripts    on    Papyrus 

(Insert) iii. 

2.  Code  of  Hammurabi  (Insert) iii. 

3.  Facsimile  of  Codex  Ephraemi   Re- 

scriptus v. 

4.  Facsimile  of  Codex  Sinaiticus v. 

5.  Facsimile  Minuscule  Manuscript. .  .  .  v. 

6.  Greek  Papyrus  Containing  Matthew 

1:1-9.12.13.14-20 iv. 

7.  Xcw  Sayings  of  Jesus iv. 

X.  Section  of  Codex  Washingtoniensis — 

Mark  1:1-7  (Insert) v. 

9.  Timothcus  Papyrus iv. 

MAP  OF  ANCIENT  ALEXANDRIA i. 

MAP  AND  LONGITUDINAL  SECTION  OF  THE 

DEAD  SEA ii. 

MAPS,  PLANS  AND  DIAGRAMS — 


-1X26 
30X7 
3050 
921 

2888 
1804 
1866 

1X66 

3120 
236 
1895 
1396 
1905 
1436 
1908 

2765 
2097 

1962 
2775 
1981 


1.  Battle  of  Beth-horon i. 

2.  Construction  of  Tabernacle,  accord- 

ing to  Fergusson v. 

3.  Cross-section  of  Nilometer iv. 

4.  Elevation  of  House  from  Court iii. 

5.  Ezekiel's  Temple  Plan v. 

6.  Front  Elevation  of  Temple v. 

7.  Geological  Cross-section  of  Southern 

Palestine i. 

8.  Geological    Map    of     Bible    Lands 

(Insert) ii. 

9.  Great  Court,  Including  Royal  Build- 

ings (Jerusalem) v. 

10.  Ground  Plan  of  Olympia. ii. 


2238 
1854 

2953 
2951 
2954 

2241 
2241 

2952 

2240 

94 

803 
447 

2S90 
2146 
1436 
2935 
2938 

212 
1216 

2932 
1299 


I\J>KX   <>!•    11,1.1  S'J  HATJOXS 


II.   Ground  I'J.-u,  (of  Tahern.-ide,,  u«:«:onl- 

in,"  l-i  Keil  v 

I..'.    Mill;..   :u,.|    Valley^  of  .).  ru:,:,|.m    will) 
Mode)  li   .\.-I.UK-;-,  jj 

i:;    I  ••/,  nK-tric   si-.eidi    of   u    Jiou;--e.   ,-tt, 

(Je/i-r  jj, 

I  1     .Jeru  -:il<-ui   of    I  IK:  J<-l>u:,il  •--.,   :,.:•   Cap- 

tured \,y   U-ivid  j,j 

I.V    I,.  -,.(,-  ,-.-,.!    Vi<-w  of  'l.,l,,rn;,d,-,  ;,.,.,.„  ,d- 

my.  ("  Kennedy 

Hi     M:,.pof  An.-i.-nl,  A!e;,:,ndn:,  j 

IV    M.-ip    ;,n'l    Lonj'it  u-lin.-il    Section    of 

lhel>.;,d:.  ,  n 

IH.    Mount,  Sin:ii   .-I.IK)    UK:   Ad|;,eej,l,    V:il- 

l-y» 

l'»     I'l.'ui   of    I,)K:    I',;il|j:i  in    UK:  C.v-.lj.-  ;,.) 

<;,.,-,- 

'••''     l'l:ui  of  ll,<-  r.,-.e  dwelling  :it,(;.-/cr  iii 
HI      I  'l:tn  of  Kf'vpl  i:ui  O.-ird<-n  willi  llou:.<-, 
Temple      or      <"|,,-,p,  |;       Vineyard, 
Tiuikn    of    Wuler    or    I'ond:,,    ;UK| 
Summer  I  IOIJHI  ii. 

!.    I'lun  of  I  IK-  KnviroiiH  of  Jenmuleni.     in. 
:'..',    I'lun  of  HnuHi  iii. 

21.    l'l;i./i  of  li,.-  l,i|,r;iry  ;,|    Nineyeh.  i  -. 

'2'.  i.    I'l.'in  of    l'i  -i  |'.-uiioii  m 

li').    I'l.-ui    of     UK-     I'rrcinn  ;    ,,f     Apollo 

Temple  ;it,  l><  Ipln  jj. 

'11  .    I'l.'in    Showinj',     licKljlt.H    of     \\':,n.i, 

l'.:-.'-;i.v:il  io/iH  :il  "  I  {ohin:  .on  ':i  Ardj"  iii. 
liS.    I'l.'Ul  of  Solomon's  Temple  \  . 

HI).    I'rol,:.!,!.:  Course  of  Solon,  on':,  U'.-.ll.    in. 
:JO.    rrol,.-,.!,!,-  Com-Hii  of  UK:  Thre<;  \\  :,!!•> 

I  )ei  riil,,.  d  |,y  .),,  ,,,!,,,  nj 

.''.I.    I'rol,.-,!,!,.  Co,,,-,-  of   \\;,ll.s  .-unl    I'o  i 
lion    of    I),,-    I'IIIK-IJ,;,!   CJuteH   Iron, 
H'-/,i  -Ki.-i.li  (ill  hoiitf.-iflrr  .\<-lK-ini;i.l,  iii. 
'.'<!.   Si-dioii    fi-i.iii    (lie    M(-i|ili-rr;iiK-.-iu    to 

Mo:,  I)   fllfl.er   l/irlel;  .   .  j,. 

.'S.'i.    Sen,  i  <li:i(.'r;i.niin:it  ir:     I'luii     of     "\\:u 
rejl'H  Skill  "   ;UK|   Oil,,  -r   |{or|.    I':,;  - 
I   !'"  in 

.'51.    Scrpciilini-   COIII-M:    of    Silo.-un    A»|lle- 

<lu.-l  jv 

:{.").  SK.-ld,  M:,p  of  ll,<:  I'lnviroim  of  II.- 
liron  to  Show  I  IK-  Various  I'ro- 
po:>.-d  Sites  of  M.-unn-  iii. 

.''.(i.  'I'.-ih.-rn:,.-!.-  Sdiick'n  Mo.l.-l  (|''nll 
I'-'i^','-,  ......  v 

.'57.   Solomon':!   Temple     Schi.-K's    Model 

(Full  I'.-ip-;  v 

.''>S.    Tr:ui,sve|>;c  Seel  ion  of  I  he  I  )c:i..|  Se:i  ii. 

.''.!».   The  \\':i.ter-;iiipply  (of  ,l.-ru.s:i  lem  >  in. 

MAHKI-;I-I'I.\(  i-;   AT  J  AI-I-A  j. 

MAT.  .  , 

MATTKI-::U  WITH  I'n.i.ou  i. 

M  I.DI  A,V  DIIKSS  .....  in. 
MK,SHA<;E  STICKH  .  . 


MoAIiJ'J  J,  S'JOM,  ,jj 

Moijj.uv  AJIAH  MAKHIAOJ;  J'itof:j,SHio\.        iii. 


Mohl.lcV  AltAHH  ]•!%(  AMI'J.U  J.V  'HIJ.  \'AJ,J,J,y 

OK  A'JfOH  j 

MOM.H.V  AitAii  VJJ.LAOK  jjj_ 

Moni.u.v  CA  /a1  j 

Moni.u'V  (  ,'TJT  of-1  I']:-;  SAI/I  j 

Moni.uv  I  >ui  •;•;]•;  H).Aonitj,:s;s  jj. 
Monj.u.V  Jv.yi-riA.v  U'ju-i  i.-.-o  MATJ-.HIAI.S 

Mooi.it.-v  J).iti::-Ai.i-,M  n) 


2071 
1097 


211 
ll'.'J 


Mob),  If,'  Ojtl|,',-J  A  i.  I  '.A  :-,)-,  |./|;.; 

M  01,  i.  it  ',•;-•-,  it/A.v  WINK  I'm.    ,  'I  nil  \>;IV<-, 

MoOI.K.V  TltAKMC  ON  'I'll!-.    llAI.VS   IflVKU. 

Moii.-  MMI.I,  .•,-..,   fitAViNcj   i  .-  -mi,   MOKQI.-I-; 
AT  I>AMAH<:(;K  ........ 

Mo.\Ki-,y  MIOM  TIII-;  I'KAI..M.:/I  i  -,i.  MOSAH: 
Mo'.oi.ri'ii  oi-'  SJIALMA  •,-!.  i.u  II 
MO.VI;MK.N-J     r,  A     i  )c  \  ),  ,  OVI.KI.I>  i:v  •mi. 


2SO 


issr, 
i  :io  i 

K5I2 

ir,07 
KiO.") 


KiOS 
27!)  I 


SOI 


Mo  '/i  i,  i,\  i.it  •!  m,  < ',  \  \  i,  01   MACIUM.I.MI  .vi 
MKHUO.N  ,, 

Moi    M)  CoVK.HIN'O'   NiriM   It  ToWKIC  I 

MOI    VI'AI.N 

1.  Anli   I,e|,anon :    Souk-\Vady-J',arrudu  in. 

2.  Arurul  , 
:;.   Ascent,  to  Ai:    I'uth  to  Klijah'.s  Tr.-,n- 

1.  I'.alhin^  "-I-  Hie  NortJi  Fud  of  the 
Dead  S.-;,.,  l.he  Mounlumsof  Moab 
m  tin;  J'.;id-.f/ round  j, 

.").   Convent,  Curde,,,  Sinui  .    jv. 

<i.  .J<-he|  Fhdum  from  the  South,  Looking 
over  the  Mud  Mat  <  lovem]  hv  the 

Se;i  m    I  li^'h    \\'a.l  er     .  ji 

7.    Mounl   FL-,1  jj 

S.    Mount,  Ceri/im  with  She<:liein  n. 

'.).    Mount,    .\d,o    from    the    Spring    A  in 

.Neha  !v 

10.  Mount,    of    Olives    from    I  he    Oolden 

•  i.ale  u, 

11.  Mount,  Sma.i  a.nd   the  Adjuceut,   Val- 

leys    ^ 

I '1.   Mounl,  Tuhor v 

l.'i.    .N.-ililusun-l  Mounl,  l-:i>:il.  jv. 

II.    l{,:iM-eh-S:ifs;ife|i.  .  .  .jv. 

I.",.  Trudilionul  Mount,  of  the  I'recipj- 

t.:ition  near  Na/aret  h  jv. 

Mi.  View  from  Mount,  of  Olives  Overlook- 
ing the  I)ea.d  Sea  d-'nll  \':n"'j.  ii. 

17.    View  from  Top  of  Mount,  Sinai  (Full 


ISo'2 
217 


S7 


SO!) 
2SOJ 


SOI 
1 2 1 S 
2127 
21S7 
2S02 


M  IKHDIt  OK   PoM.SIIKD    |{ltO\/K 
MlTK  OK  .loll.V   II  VltCAXl'S 
Ml/l'AII 


•JO  17 

:',i  it; 
•jor.r, 

I  L'i',  1 
207!) 
20(1!) 


MoKNT   I'lltAI,     ....  || 

MOUNT  (JicjuziM  vvrrn  Sin,<  JIKM    .  ji. 

MOKNT  \i-:no  i-  KOM  'mi,  SI-KIN*;  Ai\  .\KJSA  .  iv. 

Moi    NTOKOlJVK.S  J  KOM  T1IK  (  ',(IIA)I.  V  (  J  ATI-;  iv. 
Moi    .VT      OK      OUVKS      Ov'KKLOOKINi;       TIIK 

I)I-;AI>  SIOA  (Full  1'a^eJ  \\ 

MOUNT  SINAI  AND  TIIK  AD.IACKNT  VAI.I.KVH  iv. 
MOKNT  TAHOU  v 


222 1 
S02 

2S02 
S'JO 
1 2 1 S 
2127 
2IS7 

K02 
2S02 
21)01 


1NDKX  OF  ILLUSTRATION'S 


MOURNERS    ABOUT    A    COUCH    ox    WHICH 

RESTS  THE   BODY   OF  THE   DEAD 

Music 

1.  Ancient,   Horns   and   Curved   Trum- 

pets. .  .  .  •  :'>(l-r> 

2.  Assyrian  Dulcimer.  iii.  200s 
'.'>.   Bedouins   Playing  on  Primitive   In- 
struments. .  i'i-  -"'•'' 

\.  Double    Pipe   with    A'-'-ompaniment 

of  Clapping  of  Hand..  in.  -'000 

5.  Drum,  ''i-  '-'HK) 

tj.  Figyptian  Cymbals.  . 

7.  Egyptian  Lyre  Held  Horizontally        iii.  2007 

8.  Harp,   Lyre  and   Double   Pipe  with 

Men  arid  Women  Singing,  iii.  2')').", 

0.  Lyre  Held  Perpendicularly    .  .    iii.  2007 

10.  Musical  Party  .  .    "'•  2000 

11.  Procession  of  Assyrian  MusK-iariH  iii.  2007 

12.  Sistra "'•  2101 

I'.',.  Straight  Trump"'-  iii-  2100 

1  \.  Three  Bearded  M"n  v.i'h  Lyres,  iii.  2005 

15.  Timbrel  iii-  2101 

10.  TrumD<-'-i    on     a    <"  -in     from     B 

cochba.  .  iii-  - 

17.  Various  Forms  of  Egyptian  Harps  .iii.  2000 

Mr-irAL  PARTY.  .  iii.  2000 

MUSTARD  2102 

MYRRH  »'•  2!''-; 

MYRTLE.  -iii-  21°::i 


ORIENTAL  BARBER,  AN 

OsTRACo.N  WITH  LUKE  22:70f 
OSTRICHES 

OTTER  li.v.vKs  or  -nil,  DI.I/I  \  or  THI;  JOR- 
DAN. .  ' 


I'AI^.TOS  DI.-K,  ]'  \'i.  A,  Tin.  i. 

I'.MNTKI)  l.\i.~  'i- 

I'AI.VII.IJ  TOMI:.->  of    M\RI.-,.-\  i. 

I'AINTIV,  AT  1'i.vi  II  \.-.-AN  ii- 

I'  A  LA'  }.  OK  O.MI'.I   A.VU   All  Ml   AT  H  \M  UtIA.  IV. 


40:5 

220:5 

220.'i 


XAHLT-.S  AND  Mor'\T  EBAL 
NAPHTALI 

XARAM-.SIN 

XARD 

NATIVE  OF  JERICHO 
NATURAL  BRIDOE  AT  LF.;. 


iv.  27o5 

iv.  21  lr* 
ii.  010 
v.  2S40 

ii.     S70 

. 


NAZARETH,  FROM  THE  KO-MJ  TO  THE  PLAIN 

OF  KSDRAELON  . 

XEBO.  i-     :;71 

NERO  ^'~< 

NEV.-  -  OF  JESUS  2211 

NICHES    AND    TABLETS    AT    BA.VIAS      I 

Page  i-     :"'>>< 

NOR-;;:  END  OF  THE  DEAD  SEA,  BORDERINO 

THE  PLAIN  OF  JERK  HO  *>02 

OAK   AT  •'ilLEAD.   THE  SlN  i          2171 

OBELI-K  AT  ON iv.  21fc; 

r)BELi.-.K  OF  THOTHME.S  I  ii-     000 

.DRACHM  ''EOYPTIAN  TALENT,  OF  PTOL- 
EMY II 

OLD  EGYPTIAN  BOOKCASE  . 

OLD    JI~R   EL-MU.IA.MIA,    KOMAN    BRIL 
ACROSS  THE  UPPEP.  JORDAN  HIVER  'Full 
Pa^e,  •-  2002 

OLIVE.  iv.  21-.", 

OLIVE  PRESS  AT  BANIA.S  NEAR  DAN  ''Full 

PiigO;    .    . 

ONE-FOURTH  SHEKEL  iii.  2070 

OPHINCHUS  AND  THE  NEIGHBORING  CON- 
STELLATIONS i.     310 
ORESTES  PURSUED  BY  Two  ERINYES.            ii.  1'iOi 


PANTHEON 

PAPYRI'S  ANTIO.''ORI'.M 
P\pYR''s  MAR-H  v/nii  BOAT 
PARIAH  l>  >< ,  AT  I'i.iRi'T 

P.\PwTHIAN   II  OR-  I 

PARTRIDOE 

I'  MlT  OF  ]{<>'  K   OF   Iil.HI.-T  '    S' 

i'        vriE-FRiEZE,  ^'ASILI-K  \  v  •. 
PASS  OF  Mi'  HM  \SH 
PEL:' 
PEP.- .'A  - 

1.  Ahun.  M   / 

2.  Chamois:      P  i    i    n     V.      I     Go  ii     or 

I'        ;,'iLr i- 

:;.   Pcrsi  in  ?          •    ! '  '' '  :;;i-   "' 

Gre«          Cl  at,  t|,c   Gate  of  a 

Bas-relief       from        I. 
Mo;.  i'- 

\.   Persian  \V  irriors  iv. 

.',.  Terr,-).-'   .        '  ler  (     ntninint?  t}i". 

Hi;-ory  of  the  f^.jpture  of  Bab 
by  Cyrus  the  ( >  '• 

0.   To::.'-)  •      ' 

PEP..-IAN    SATR'-.P     DICTATING    TF.RMS    TO 
GRE'  i       I  '  01    ••.  Cn  v. 

'P>  '•.    -RELIEF  I  P.OM   LY<  :  :  '•'  MoNI   MEN!  .,  .  ii. 
PEItSIAN  W.'U'J'.If^RS IV. 

PHILISTINE  WAGON- iv. 

PH VRAOH 

PHYLACTERIES  i  OR  If;.  •.:> 
PIG;. 

Pit/,:  i  '••  T  HE  Jon 

PILLARS  AND  HOLLOW  STONE  or  T;;E  HIGH 
I':.  '      '  iii- 

.;  BEIRUT  iv. 

,'.'••;  .  i  '•'  • 

PLAIN  OF  S;;  u:  iv. 

PLAN    OF    THE     B  \TH.S     IN    THE    <  AT 

i. 

;  (  •  .   f  -K/f.R  iii. 

PL.-.:.'  OF  EGVPTIAN  GARDEN  WITH  Ho 
Tf.:.:PLE  OR  CHAPEL,   VINEYARD,  TANKS 
OF    WATER    OR    PONDS    AND    Sr  MMER 
HOUSES  ii- 

PLAN  OF  THE  F^NVIRONS  OF  JER'  SALEM  iii. 

PLANE  TREE..  iv. 

PLAN  OF  HO';SE  iii- 

PLAN  OF  THE  LIBRARY  AT  NINEVEH.  iv. 

PLAN  OF  PERGAMON  iii- 

PL\N    or    Tin;    PP.EMVTH    or    APOLLO'S 
TEMPLE  AT  DELPHI  ii 


101 

I070 
2-'»0 

X77 
2  1  '12 
2021 


20  tH 
2207 


1170 
2336 
2378 
2359 

2:;fi:; 
2305 
2210 

1301 
2300 

2 1  70 
2751 

114 


1174 
1011 
2107 
1  J3Q 
2151 
1HH5 

1301 


3520 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


766 
1118 

1144 
3050 
1864 
1866 
1981 
2055 
.iii.  2102 
.iii.  2103 
.iii.  2103 


.  n. 
.  v. 

iii. 
in. 
iii. 
iii. 


PLAN  SHOWING  RESULTS  OF  WARREN'S  EX- 
CAVATIONS AT  "  ROBINSON'S  ARCH" iii.  1612 

PLAN  OF  SOLOMON'S  TEMPLE  ..  v.  2931 

PLANTS — 

1.  Anise.  L     13(. 

2.  Bearded  Darnel.  .  V-  2910 

3-  Cal)er .iii.   1445 

4.  Cassia j      ~s.> 

5.  Colocynth jj    1287 

6.  Cummin . 

7.  Flax ..'.......' 

8.  Frankincense .... 

9.  Large  Vine  at  Jericho 

10.  Leek 

11.  Lentil 

12.  Mandrake.  . 

13.  Millet 

14.  Mustard.  . 

15.  Myrrh .  . 

16.  Myrtle.  .  . 

17.  Nard ."  " 

18.  Papi/rux  Ant  it/ nor  inn 

19.  Reed 

20.  Retem  Bush.  . 

21.  Rock-rose 

22.  Rue 

23.  Saffron ' 

21.  \\  ormwood 

PLOWING  NEAR  NA/.ARETH 

PLOWING  IN  SYRIA  AVITH  YOKE  OF  OXEN. 

POMEGRANATE 

POOL  OF  BETHESDA 

POOL  OF  HEZEKIAII 

POOLS  OF  SOLOMON. 

POTTER'S  WHEEL  STILL  USED  IN  PALESTINE 
AND  SYRIA | 

POTTERS  AT  WORK  (EGYPTIAN  jv 

PRESENTATION    OF    UMMAN-IGAS    TO    His 

SUBJECTS  BY  THE  ASSYRIAN  GENERAL,  ii 
PRIEST-KING  AND  GOD  OF  CULTIVATION.  .  .  iii 
PRIMITIVE  ALPHABETS  (Insert).  ...  i 

PRIMITIVE  PLOWING 

PRIMITIVE  SIGNS  LIKE  A 

PROBABLE  COURSE  OF  SOLOMON'S  WALL-     .iii. 

PROBABLE  COURSE  OF  THE  THREE  WALLS 

DESCRIBED  BY  JOSEPHUS.  . 
PROBABLE  COURSE  OF  WALLS  AND  POSITION 
OF  THE  PRINCIPAL  GATES  FRMM  HE/E- 

KIAH  TILL  LONG   AFTER  NEHEMIAII. 

PROCESSION  OF  ASSYRIAN  MUSICIANS 
PURIFICATION  . 


RESERVOIR  AT  GEZER 

RETEM  BUSH 

REVERSE  OF  A  COIN  OF  AELIA  CAPITOLIN  v  iii    2080 
REVERSE  OF  A  COIN  OF  ANTIGONUS iii.  2079 


658 
1781 


1300 


. 

RIVER  JORDAN,  THE iiL  1?34 

RIVERS — • 

1 .  Abuna  River 


779 


2424 

212-1 

921 
1399 

101 
76 

101 
1007 


iii.  1605 


.ill.  KiOli 
iii.  2097 
1302 


n. 


QUAIL" 
QUIPU,  THE 


RACHEL'S  TOMB 
RAS-ES-SAFSAFEH 


... 

READER  WITH  A  ROLL,  A  i,     499 

REAPING  AND  BINDING  SHEAVES  .........  ]v.  2534 

RECLINING  ON  COUCHES 
REED.  . 


n. 

iii. 


2217 

2146 

907 

1733 

1798 

280 


On  the  Bank  of  the  Nile iv.  2145 

3.  Brook  Cherith 

4.  Cross-section  of  Nilometer. 

5.  First  Cataract  of  the  Nile 

6.  Jordan  Leaving  the  Sea  of  Galilee. 

7.  Kidron,  Looking  Southeast  from  the 

Wall  of  Jerusalem \\\_ 

.  Modern  Traffic  on  the  Halys  River. .    i.' 
9.  Natural  Bridge  at  Lebanon i.'     ,085 

10.  Old  Jisr  el-Mujamia,  Roman  Bridge 

across    the    Upper    Jordan    River 

(Full  Page) iy    2602 

11.  Outer  Banks  of  the  Delta  of  the  Jor- 

dan   

Pilgrims  Bathing  in  the  Jordan 

13.  River-god 

14.  The  River  Jordan 

15.  Roman  Bridge  over  the  Halys i.   ~281 

10.  Sourc<>s  of  the  Jordan  at  Dan  (Full 

1  age) -j      ~g2 

17.  Stream  Issuing  from  Cave  at  Afka, 

Lebanon 

18.  Traditional  Site  of  the  Brook  Che- 

rith   j 

19.  Water  Wheel  on   River  Orontes  at 

Anliocli  (Full  Page   .  j 

ROBINSON'S  ARCH 

ROCK  ALTAR  FROM  TAANACH.  . 

ROCK  ALTAR  AT  TELL  EL-MUTASELLIM— 
MEGIDDO  (Full  Pagej 

ROCK-CUT  AQUEDUCT 

ROCK  OF  MASADA 

ROCK-ROSE 

ROCK  TOM  us  AT  AM  ASIA 

ROMAN  BRIDGE  OVER  THE  HALYS  . 

ROMAN    COIN    COMMEMORATING    VICTORY 

OVER  THE  JEWS 

ROMAN  FORUM 

ROMAN  SCOURGES j 

ROMAN  SHIP,  FROM  TOMB  AT  POMPEII i 

ROMAN  STANDARDS  OR  BANNERS 
ROME — • 


. 

i. 


585 
603 

158 

1613 

109 


iii.  1390 

i.     659 

iv.  2788 

iii.  2103 

iv.  2418 

i.     281 

2080 
2613 
2704 
2776 
3070 


2605 
2135 


2602 


in.  2015 
iv.  2544 


1.  Coliseum ^ 

2-  Nero h 

3.  Old  Jisr  el-Mujamia,  Roman  Bridge 

across    the    Upper    Jordan    River 
(Full  Page)..  ;.iv 

4.  Pantheon iv_ 

5.  Roman  Bridge  over  thellalys i.     281 

6.  Roman  Forum jv-  2613 

7.  Roman  Scourges jv-  2704 

8.  Roman  Ship,  from  Tomb  at  Pompeii  iv.  2776 

9.  Roman  Standards  or  Banners v.  3070 

.  .iv.  2625 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


3.521 


RUINED  CHURCH  AT  KUKIBT iii.  1812 

Rui.vs  AT  AMMAN — FACADE  OF  THEATEK.  .  iv.  2f)21 
RUINS  OF  ANCIENT  CORINTH  WITH  Acuo- 

CORINTHUS  IN  BACKGROUND  ii.  711 

RUINS  OF  ELEUSIS .  .  .  ii.  1303 

RUINS  OF  ONE  OF  HEROD'S  TEMPLES  i\ 

SAMARIA.  .  iii. 


RUINS  IN  SAMARIA 


1380 

iv.  2071 


SACRIFICE — 

1.  Altar  of  Burnt  Offering  and  Altar  of 

Incense i. 

2.  Cairn  Altar i. 

3.  Fire  Altars iv. 

4.  Foundation  Sacrifice  Found  at  Gezer  i. 

5.  Incense  Altars  of  Sandstone  Found 

in  the  Rock  Shrine  ut  Sinai i. 

G.  Rock  Altar  from  Taanach i. 

7.  Rock  Altar  at  Tell  el-Mutascllim  - 

Megiddo  (Full  Page) iii. 

8.  Sacrificed  Infant  Buried  in  a  Jar  at 

Gezer ii. 

9.  Stone  Altar  of  Gezer i. 

SACRIFICED  INFANT  BURIED  IN  A  JAR  AT 

GEZER ii. 

SAFED  AND  JEBEL  JERMUK v. 

SAFFRON iv. 

ST.  MARY'S  WELL  AT  NAZARETH ii. 

ST.  STEPHEN'S  GATE iii. 

SALT  CLIFFS  ON  THE  EAST  SIDE  OF  JEBEL 

USDUM ii. 

SAMARIA — 

1.  Mount  Ebal ii. 

2.  Mount  Gerizim  with  Shecheni ii. 

3.  Nablus  and  Mount  Ebal iv. 

4.  Palace  of  Omri  and  Ahab  at  Samaria  iv. 

5.  Ruins  of  One  of  Herod's  Temples  in 

Samaria iii. 

6.  Ruins  in  Samaria iv. 

7.  Samaritan  High  Priest  with  Scroll.,  .iv. 

8.  Triple  Gate — German  Excavat  ions  at 

Nablus  (Full  Page) ii. 

SAMARITAN  HIGH  PRIEST  WITH  SCROLL.  .  .  .  iv. 

SANDALS ii. 

SARGON  IN  His  WAR  CHARIOT iv. 

SCARAB  WITH  NAME  OF  AMENHOTEP  III, 

FROM  GEZER ii. 

SCARLET  INSECT v. 

SCRIBE'S  PALETTE iii. 

SCRIBES  WITH  UTENSILS v. 

SCORPION iv. 

SCULPTURE  ON  BEHISTUN  ROCK ii. 

SCULPTURE,  PAINTING,  ETC — 

1.  Ahura  Mazda iv. 

2.  Ancient  Egyptian  Paintings  on  Cloth 

(Full  Page) ii. 

3.  Ancient    Painting    of    an    Egyptian 

Princess  (Full  Page) iv. 

4.  Aphrodite ii. 

5.  Asshur-bani-pal  Hunting i. 

6.  Assyrian  King  in  His  Chariot i. 

7.  Assyrian  King  Placing  His  Foot  on 

the  Neck  of  an  Enemy ii. 


107 

107 

2334 

550 

109 
109 

1390 

1224 
108 

1224 
3006 
2GG1 
874 
1603 


12 

13 
14. 

15. 
16. 

17. 
18. 

19. 

21. 

23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 


28 
807 

29. 

890 

1218 

30. 

31. 

2755 

2192 

32. 

33. 

1380 

34. 

2671 

35. 

2313 

36. 

37. 

1138 

2313 

38. 

879 

39. 

2693 

40. 

1223 

41. 

3109 

42. 

1469 

3123 

43. 

2703 

44. 

877 

45. 

46. 

2332 

47. 

48. 

914 

49. 

50. 

2360 

1298 

29  i 

292 

51. 

1  19ft 

52. 

Athena  Promachos.  .  .  ii.  1298 

Bas-relief  of  Lion  Hunt iv.  2150 

Bas-relief  of  Sennacherib  Besieging 

Lachish iv.  21.50 

Bird  Sign:  Above  a,  Four-horse 

Chariot,    Driven    by    a    Goddess, 

Appears  an  Eagle  Flying.  .  ii.  1300 

Black-figured  Vase  Painting. ..  ii.  1302 

Bronze  Goat  Head  from  Tello ..  i.  3.59 
Bronze  Panel  from  Palace  Gate  at 

Balawat .  i.  291 

Combat  between  King  and  Evil 

Spirit .  .iv.  2333 

Egyptian  Dance — from  Tomb  at 

Thebes ii.  111)9 

Entrance  to  Kouyunjik iv.  2149 

Fragments  of  Inscribed  Vases  of  the 

Early  Sumerian  Period i.  300 

The  God  Amon  Holding  Captive  the 

Cities  of  Judah  for  Shishak iv.  2778 

Golden  Candlestick i.  5.53 

Great  Pyramid  of  Khufu ii.  908 

Hammurabi  Receiving  the  Laws.  .  .  .  ii.  1.328 

Hanging iv.  2505 

Head  of  the  Bearded  Dionysus ii.  1300 

Head  from  Old  Samsoun i.  277 

Heads  of  Amorites,  Akin  to  North 

African i.  119 

Heads  of  Philistines iv.  2378 

Hittite  King  and  Daughter iii.  1398 

Hittitc  Lion,  Boghaz-keuy;  at  the 

"Lion  Gate" " i.  278 

Hittite  Sculptures,  Yasili-kaya  (1).  .  i.  279 

Hittite  Sculptures,  Yasili-kaya  (2) .  .  i.  279 

Hittite  Warrior — Boghaz-keuy i.  278 

Hittite  Warrior — Senjirli iii.  1400 

"Household  God"  from  Gezer iii.  1455 

Impression  of  a  Seal  Cylinder i.  291 

The  Installation  of  Umman-igas .  .  .  .  ii.  920 
Jehu's  Tribute — from  Obelisk  of 

Shalmaneser iii.  1584 

King  Mercnptah ii.  912 

Last  Stand  of  Te-umman ii.  921 

Monkey  from  the  Praenestine  Mo- 
saic    i.  100 

Monolith  of  Shalmancsrr  11 i.  436 

Monuments  in  Assur,  Discovered  by 

the  Germans iv.  2765 

Naram-Sin ii.  919 

Obelisk  at  On iv.  2193 

Obelisk  of  Thothmcs  I ii.  909 

Orestes  Pursued  by  Two  Erinyes. .  .  .  ii.  1304 

Painting  at  Beni  Hassan ii.  877 

Parthian  Horsemen iv.  2252 

Passage-frieze,  Yasili-kaya iii.  1399 

Persian  Satrap  Dictating  Terms  to 

Grecian  Chiefs  at  the  Gate  of  a 

City.     (Bas-relief      from      Lycian 

Monument.) ii.  1176 

Philistine  Wagons iv.  2378 

Presentation  of  Umman-igas  to  His 

Subjects  by  the  Assyrian  General .  ii.  921 


3522 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


53.  River-god ii. 

54.  Sculpture  on  Behistun  Rock ii. 

55.  Sennacherib  on   II is  Throne  before 

Lachish iii. 

50.  Siege  of  a  City ii. 

57.  Silver  Vase  of  Entemena 

58.  The  Spinning  Woman 

59.  Statue  of  Gudea  from  Tello 

GO.  Statue  of  Rameses  II  at  Luqsor. 

01 .  Statue  of  Rameses  II  at  Memphis. .  . 

02.  Sticks  of  Dried  Locusts  on  Sculptures 

from  Kouyunjik iii. 

03.  A  Subject  People  Paying  Tribute.  .  .  v. 

04.  Tiglath-pileser  I v. 

05.  Zeus  from  Mylasa ii. 

SKA  OF  GALILEE 

SEAL  CYLINDERS 

SEALED  STOXE  AT  ENTRANCE  TO  A  TOMB 
SECTION  OF  CODEX  WASHINGTONIENSIS— 

Mark  1 : 1-7  (Insert) v. 

SECTION   FROM   THE    MEDITERRANEAN   TO 

MOAB  (AFTER  LARTKTJ ii. 

SEMI-DIAGRAMMATIC  PLAN  OF  "WARREX'S 

SHAFT"  AXD  OTHER  ROCK  PASSAGES.  .  .  .  iii. 
SEXXACHERIB    ox    His    THRONE    BEFORE 

LACHISH iii 

SERIES  OF  BATHS  i x  THE  CASTLE  AT  GEZER .  i. 
SERPENTINE  COURSE  OF  SILOAM  AQUEDUCT  .  iv. 


1390 

877 


1908 
3011 
2981 
1297 
11(55 
303 
2709 


SIIKEI>  AT  DOTHAX  (Full  Page)  ...........  iii. 

SHEKEL,  SIMON  BAR-COCHBA  .............  iii. 

SHEKEL,  YEAR  4,  13S-7  (?)  BC.  .  .  .iii. 

SHELLS  FROM  ANCIENT  BED  OF  THE  SALT 
SEA-  •  ................    i. 

SHELLS  OF  Murcx  trunculus  AT  SIDON  .....  iv. 

SHEPHERD  OF  BETHANY  .................  ii. 

SHEPHERD  AND  SHEEP  ..................  iv. 

SHEPHERD'S   FIELD   AND   FIELD   OF   BOA/, 


^ 
SHIELD,  SWORD  AND  GIRDLE  .............    i. 

SHIP-CANAL  AT  CORINTH  ................  ii. 

SHIPS  AND  BOATS  — 

1.  Assyrian  Armed  Galley  in  Motion.,  .iv. 

2.  Coin    of    Antoninus    Pius,    Showing 

Anchor  .......................  iv. 

3.  Making  a  Papyrus  Boat  ...........  iv. 

4.  Modern  Traffic  on  the  Ilalys  River.  .    i. 

5.  Papyrus  Marsh  with  Boat  .........  v. 

0.  Roman  Ship,  from  Tomb  at  Pompeii  iv. 

7.  Ship-canal  at  Corinth  .............  ii. 

8.  Ships  Drawn  up  on  Coast  of  Black 

Sea  ...........................    i. 

SHITTIM  WOOD  .........................    i. 

SHORE  LINE  AT  SOUTHWEST  CORNER  OF  THE 

DEAD  SEA  ...........................  ii. 

SHORT-TOED  EAGLE  .....................  ii. 

SHOWING  "SHED"  OF  ARAB  LOOM  ........  v. 

SHOWING  UPRIGHT  LOOM  ................  v. 

SIEGE  OF  A  CITY  .......................  ii. 

SIGNS  OF  THE  CAVE-DWELLERS  ...........  v. 

SILKWORM  ............................  iv. 

SILOAM  INSCRIPTION  —  WRITING  AT  JERU- 

SALEM AT  THE  TIME  OF  HEZEKIAH.  .      ,  .  v. 


1216 
1(508 

1820 

415 

2791 

1738 
2080 
2078 

213 
2510 

870 
2763 

450 
253 

710 


2777 
2775 

280 
3121 
2770 

710 

483 
27 

§02 
885 
3078 
3078 
1  139 
3121 
2791 

3120 


1973 
854 

3151 

2737 

28(5 

55 

2930 

782 
311 


SILVER  VASE  OF  EXTEMENA i.    359 

SISTKA iii.  2101 

SITE  OF  ANCIENT  JERICHO iii.  1592 

SKETCH  MAP  OF  THE  ENVIRONS  OF  HEBRON 
TO  Snow  THE  VARIOUS  PROPOSED  SITES 

OF  MAMRE jjj. 

SLAVE  BEARING  COVERED  DISHES ii. 

SLOPE  OF  ZION — TYROPOEON  VALLEY  AT 

RIGHT v 

SNAKES — • 

1.  Adder iv 

2-  Asp '..'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.   i. 

3.  Hooded  Snake j. 

SOLOMON'S  TEMPLE— SCHICK'S  MODEL  (Full 

SOURCES   OF  THE   JORDAN   AT   D \N   (Full 

Page) ii. 

SOUTH — THE  PLEIADES i. 

SPARROW v.  2839 

SPIDER v.    2840 

SPINDLES v   2841 

SPINNING  WOMAN,  THE ii.     922 

STAMPED     JAR-HANDLES     EXCAVATED     AT 

GEZKR iv.  2233 

STAMPED   JAR-HANDLES,    LAMP    AXD   IRON 
IMPLEMENTS  FROM  TOMBS  AT  BEIT  JIB- 

I{I-N~-  •  iv.  2227 

STARS  OF  THE  PLOUGH,  AS  THE  WINNOWING 

FAX-  i.     313 

STATUE  OF  GUDEA  FROM  TELLO i.     362 

STATUE  OF  RAMESES  II  AT  LUQSOR ii.     911 

STATUE  OF  RAMESES  II  AT  MKMPHIS iii.  2031 

STICKS  OF  DRIED  LOCUSTS  ON  SCULPTURES 

FROM  KOUYUNJIK iii. 

STONE  ALTAR  OF  GEZER i. 

STONE  OBJECT  CONTAINING  AN  INSCRIPTION 

OF  NEBUCHADREZZAR  I i. 

STONE  IN  QUARRIES  AT  BAALBEK iv. 

STORK v. 

STORM-GOD  TESSUPAS iii. 

STRAIGHT  TRUMPETS jii. 

STREAM    ISSUING    FROM    CAVE    AT   AFKA, 

LEBANON i. 

STREETS  OF  A  JEWISH  CITY i. 

SUBJECT  PEOPLE  PAYING  TRIBUTE,  A v.  3011 

SUNRISE   ox  THE  SEA  OF  GALILEE   (Full 

Page) .  .  ii.  1376 

SUPPLICATION:  "FALLING  AT  THE  FEET"    .    i.     330 

SWIFT v.  2874 

SYCAMINE  OR  BLACK  MULBERRY v.  2876 

SYCOMORE v.  2877 

SYNAGOGUE  AT  KEFR  BERIM i.     237 

SYRIAN  BEAR i.     417 

SYRIAN  PLOW,  YOKE  AND  PICK.  .  .  . iv.  2409 


1908 
108 

353 

2513 
2803 
1401 
2100 

535 
234 


TABERNACLE  — 


588 


Censers  .........................    i. 

Construction  of  Tabernacle,  accord- 

ing to  Fcrgusson  ...............  v.  2890 

Golden  Candlestick  ...............    i.     553 

Ground  Plan  (of  Tabernacle)  accord- 

ing to  Keil  .....................  v.  2889 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


5.  Lateral  View  of  Tabernacle,  accord- 

ing to  Kennedy v. 

6.  Tabernacle — Schick's     Model     (Full 

Page) 

TABLE  AND  COUCHES  WITH  SEATS  NUM- 
BERED IN  ORDER  OF  RANK iii. 

TABLE  SHOWING  SCRIPT  OF  SEMITIC  LAN- 
GUAGES   iv. 

TABLETS— 

1.  Brick  Stamp  of  Sargon  I i. 

2.  Clay  Tablet  with  Seal  Inscription..       i. 

3.  Cuneiform  Tablet  from  Boghaz-keuy   i. 

4.  The  Deluge  Tablet i. 

5.  Excavating  for  Cuneiform  Tablets  at 

Boghaz-keuy i. 

6.  Hebrew  Inscribed  Tablet  from  Gezer  i. 

7.  Inscribed    Tablet     Impressed     with 

Seals iv. 

8.  "Israel"  Stele  in  Museum  at  Cairo 

(Full  Page) iii. 

9.  Moabite  Stone iii. 

10.  Niches  and  Tablets  at  Banias  (Full 

Page) .    i. 

1 1 .  Warning  Tablet  of  Herod's  Temple,  iv. 

TELL  EL  HESY i. 

TELL      HUM — TRADITIONAL     CAPERNAUM 

(Full  Page) i. 

TELL  SANDAHANNAH i. 

TELL  TAANACH iii. 

TEMPLES,  HEATHEN— 

1.  Ancient    Egyptian    Temple — Philae 

(Full  Page) ii. 

2.  Cenotaph   over  Tomb   cf   Sarah   in 

Mosque  of  Hebron  above  Cave  of 
Machpelah  (Full  Page) iii. 

3.  Mohammedans    Praying    in    the 

Mosque  at  Damascus ii. 

4.  Mosque  over  the  Cave  of  Machpelah 

at  Hebron ii. 

5.  Plan   of   the   Precincts   of   Apollo's 

Temple  at  Delphi i 

6.  Temple  of  Jupiter  at  Athens 

7.  Temple  of  Tirhakah  at  Napata i 

TEMPLE  OF  JUPITER  AT  ATHENS i. 

TEMPLE,  THE — 

1.  Ezekicl's  Temple  Plan v. 

2.  Front  Elevation  of  Temple v. 

3.  Great  Court  Including  Royal  Build- 

ings  v. 

4.  "The  Great  Sea  "under  the  Temple,    i. 

5.  Plan  of  Solomon's  Temple v. 

6.  Solomon's  Temple — Schick's  Model 

(Full  Page) v. 

7.  Warning  Tablet  of  Herod's  Temple,  iv. 

TEMPLE  OF  TIRHAKAH  AT  NAPATA ii. 

TERRA-COTTA  CYLINDER  CONTAINING  THE 

HISTORY  OF  THE  CAPTURE  OF  BABYLON 

BY  CYRUS  THE  GREAT i. 

TETRADRACHM:  (ATTIC  TALENT)  OF  ANTIO- 

CHUS  III i. 

TETRADRACHM  OF  AUGUSTUS  STRUCK  AT 

ANTIOCH  .  .  iii. 


2888 
289!) 
201.") 
2:514 

3G1 
364 

2S1 
374 

277 
105 

2152 

151G 
2071 

536 

22.14 

GG3 

567 

GG2 
1390 

103  I 

19GO 
1220 
13G5 

1301 
320 

1032 
320 


159 

2080 


3523 

TETRADRACHM    (PTOLEMAIC    TALENT)    OF 

ALEXANDER  BALAS i.       91 

TEXT  OF  THK  CODE  OF  HAMMURABI ii.  1329 

THEATER  AT  GERASA ii.   1171 

THREE  BEARDKD  MEN  WITH  LYRES iii.  2095 

THRESHING     INSTRUMENT     WITH     SHARP 

TEETH i.       76 

THRESHING  WITH  OXE.V i.       77 

THROUGH  THE  ROCKS  AT  JOPPA ii.  1732 

THYINE  WOOD v.  2978 

TIBERIAS v.  2978 

TlGLATH-PILESER  1 V.   2981 

TIMBREL iii.  2101 

TIMOTHEUS  PAPYRUS iv.  2240 

TITLE  ox  THE  CROSS v.  2988 

TOMB  OF  CYRUS iv.  2336 

TOMBS— 

1.  Absalom's  Pillar  and  Tombs  of  St. 

James  and  Zachariaa  (Full  PageJ. .  i. 

2.  Absalom's  Tomb i. 

3.  Balance  (from  Egyptian  Tomb) i. 

4.  Cenotaph   over   Tomb   of   Sarah   in 

Mosque  of  Hebron  above  Cave  of 
Machpelah  (Full  Page) iii.  1960 

5.  Egyptian    Dance — from    Tomb    at 

Thebes ii.  1169 

6.  Exterior  of  Garden  Tomb i.     531 

7.  Fringed  Skirts  from  Tomb  at  Bab-el 

Melook ii.  1146 

8.  Interior  of  Garden  Tomb i.     531 

9.  Interior  of  Tomb  at  Marissa iv.  2228 

10.  Interior  of  Tombs  of  the  Kings i.     531 

11.  Painted  Tombs  of  Marissa i.     236 

12.  Rachel's  Tomb iv.  2524 

13.  Rock  Tombs  at  Amasia iv.  2418 

14.  Roman  Ship,  from  Tomb  at  Pompeii,  iv.  2776 

15.  Sealed  Stone  at  Entrance  to  a  Tomb  iv.  2709 

16.  Stamped    Jar-handles,     Lamp    and 

Iron  Implements  from  Tombs  at 

Beit  Jibrin iv.  2227 

17.  Tomb  of  Cyrus iv.  2336 

18.  Tomb  of  Zechariah i.     236 

19.  Tombs  of  the  Kings i.     530 

20.  Traditional  Tomb  of  Lazarus iii.   1SGO 

TOMBS  OF  THE  KINGS i.     530 

TOMB  OF  ZECHARIAH i.     236 

TOOLS— 

1.  Assyrian  Ax i.     341 

2.  Assyrian  Bronze  Knives iii.  1815 

3.  Awls i-     341 

4.  Axes i-     341 

5.  Egyptian  Ax i-     341 

6.  Egyptian  Key iii.  1794 

7.  Egyptian  Stone  Knives iii.  1815 

8.  Scribe's  Palette .  .  iii.  1469 

9.  Spindles .  v.  2841 

TOWER  OF  ANTONIA ii.  1140 

TOWER  OF  DAVID iii.  1619 

TRADES  AND  CRAFTS — 

1.  Ancient  Oil  Presses iv.  2182 

2.  Ancient  Pottery  (Full  Page) iv.  2424 

3.  Bank:  Money  Changer.  .  .    i.     383 


3524 


INDEX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


4.  Blowpipe  and  Small  Furnace iv.  2545 

5.  Dipping  Skins  in  Vats  of  Sumach.  .  .  v.  2903 

6.  Dressing  Hides  in  a  Syrian  Tannery   v.  2900 

7.  Egyptian  Bellows i.     432 

8.  Egyptian  Fowler ii.  1143 

9.  Egyptian  Fuller ii.   ]  14$ 

10.  Egyptians    Kneading    Dough    with 

Their  Feet i.     f,],-, 

11.  Egyptians     Kneading     Dough     with 

Their  Hands i.      -,1,5 

12.  Exterior  of  Pottery iv.  2  126 

13.  Fishers  Mending  Their  Nets  by  the 

Sea  of  Galilee ii.   H10 

14.  Fishing  on  the  Sea  of  Galilee ii.   1100 

15.  Foreign  Captives  Employed  in  Mak- 

ing Bricks  at  Thebes i.     521 

16.  Interior  of  Pottery iv.  2125 

17.  Large  Foot  Press  (Egyptian) v.  3087 

IS.  Making  a  Papyrus  Boat iv.  2775 

19.  Modern    Syrian    Wine    Press    (Full 

Pago) v.  3(),SC, 

20.  Olive  Press  at  Banias  near  Dan  (Full 

Page) iv.  2181 

21.  An  Oriental  Barber i.     403 

22.  Potter's  Wheel  St  ill  Used  in  Palest  ine 

and  Syria .  .  iv.  2  12 1 

23.  Potters  at  Work  (Egyptian).  .          .  .iv.  2121 

2t.  Showing  "Shed"  of  Arab  Loom \.  307s 

25.  Showing  Upright  Loom  .  .  .  v.  3078 

2>>.  Spindles v.  2841 

27.  The  Spinning  Woman ii.     <)22 

28.  A  Vendor  of  Water  (Full  Page). .  .     .  v.  3074 

29.  Water  Carriers  with  Skin  Bottles.   ..    i.     510 

30.  Weaving  (Figure  1) v.  3077 

31.  Weaving  (Figure  2) v.  3077 

32.  Women  at  a  Modern  Mill iii.  2052 

TRADITIONAL  HOUSE  OF  ANANIAS ii.     780    ' 

TRADITIONAL  HOUSE  OF  SIMON  THE  TANNER  iii.  1 732 
TRADITIONAL  MEGIDDO — RUINS  OF  PALACE 

AND  PUBLIC  BUILDINGS  (Full  Page) iii.  2028 

TRADITIONAL  MOUNT  OF  THE  PRECIPITA- 
TION NEAR  NAZARETH .iv.  2221 

TRADITIONAL  SITE  OF  THE  BROOK  CIIERITH  .    i.     003 

TRADITIONAL  TOMB  OF  LAZARUS iii.  I860 

TRANSVERSE  SECTION  OF  THE  DEAD  SEA.      ii.     804 
TREES— 


1361) 
98 

100 
103 


1.  Abraham's  Oak 

2.  Algum  Tree 

3.  Almond  Tree 

4.  Aloes 

5.  Carob  Tree iii.   1443 

6.  Cedars  of  Lebanon  at  the  Bcsherri 

Grove i.     586 

7.  Citron ii    1273 

8.  Corn  and  Palm  Trees  in  Goshen .  .    .  ii.  1280 

9.  Date  Palm  with  Fruit iv.  2235 

10.  Ebony .... 


12.  "Joshua's  Oak"—  a  Terebinth 

13.  OakatGilead,  the  Sindeeyan. 
14-  Ofivc.  . 

15.  Pine  Forest  at  Beirut  ... 


i[_     891 
ii.  1109 

iv.  2172 
.  iv.  2171 

iv.  2185 
.  iv.  2399 


16.  Pistachio  Nut.  ...  ;v 

17.  Plane .iv 

18.  Pomegranate ].v. 

19.  Shittim  Wood .    I 

20.  Sycamine  or  Black  Mulberry v, 

21.  Sycomore v 

22.  Thyme  Wood ..........,[  v. 

23.  Typical  Grove  of  Olive  Trees  at  Je- 

rusalem    jv 

TRIPLE  GATE— GERMAN  EXCAVATIONS  AT 

NABLUS  (Full  Pagej ;; 

TRUMPETS  ON  A  COIN  FROM  BAR-COCHBA.    iii. 

TURTLE-DOVE |j 

TYPICAL  GROVE  OF  OLIVE  TREES  AT  JERU- 
SALEM   jv 

TYRE . . 


2170 
2107 

2117 
27 

2S76 
2S77 
2978 

2184 

1138 

2098 

872 

2184 
3030 


"Up  TO  JERUSALEM"    FROM  THE   INN   OF 

THE  GOOD  SAMARITAN jv.  2122 

UTENSILS  AND  FURNITURE— 

1.  Alabaster  Boxes ;      ,512 

•  Ancient  Egyptian  Baskets.  ...          .    i.     413 

3.  Ancient  Egyptian  Hinges iii.  1393 

4.  Ancient  Seals  from  Originals  in  the 

British  Museum jv.  2708 

5.  Arab  Tent v.  2948 


6.  Arm-chair  or  Throne 

7.  Assyrian  Ax 

8.  Assyrian  Balance 

9.  Assyrian  Bronze  Knives 

10.  Assyrian  Glass  Bottles.  .  . 

11.  Awls 

12.  Axes '"''' 

13.  Bedstead 

1  1.  Bottles  of  Skins 

15.  Bronze  and  Stone  Weights  Used  in 

Nineveh 

16.  Censers 

17.  Couch  Bed  with  Head  Rest .  .  . 

18.  Eastern  Watcrpots 

19.  Egyptian  Ax 

20.  Egyptian  Bellows 

21.  Egyptian  Key j 

Egyptian  Roll  and  Case i 

Egyptian  Stone  Knives iii.  1815 

Egyptian  Throne v.  2976 

25.  Glass  Bottles ii.  1233 

26.  Glass  Vases ii.   1233 

27.  Golden  Candlestick i.     553 

28.  Ink-wells  and  Pen-case  with  Ink-well  iii.   1469 

29.  Lamp    and     Bowls    Discovered     at 

Gezer iv.  2234 

30.  Lamps:  Figures  1-14 iii.  1825-1826 

31.  Alat j.     421 

32.  Mattress  with  Pillow i.     422 

33.  Mirror  of  Polished  Bronze ii.  1234 

31.  Modern  Egyptian  Writing  Materials,  v.  3119 

35.  Modern  Oriental  Baskets i.     413 

38.  Old  Egyptian  Bookcase iii.  1886 

37.  Reclining  on  Couches Hi.  2015 

38.  Scribe's  Palette Hi.  1409 

39.  Scribes  with  Utensils.  .  v.  3123 


2977 
341 
380 

1815 
510 
341 
341 
422 
510 

3079 
588 
422 

3075 
341 
432 

1794 

2597 


1NDKX  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


40.  Silver  Vase  of  Entemena ..  i.     3.19 

41.  Slave  Bearing  Covered  Dishes ii.     8.1  1 

42.  Spindles v.  2841 

43.  Stamped  Jar-handles  Excavated   at 

Gezer iv.  2233 

14.  Stamped     Jar-handles,     Lamp     and 
Iron  Implements  from  Tombs  at 

Beit  Jibrin iv.  2227 

4.1.  Table  and  Couches  with  Seats  Num- 
bered in  Order  of  Kank  .  .  iii.  201.") 
4(1.  A  Vendor  of  Water  (Full  Page;..  .        v.  3071 

47.  Washing  before  Eating i.     412 

4S.  Water  Carriers  with  Skin  Bottles.  ..    i.     510 
40.  A  Writer,  His  Palette,  and  a  Papyrus 

Leaf i.     490 

YALLEY  OF  AI.IALOX i.       SS 

Y  \LI.KY  OF  JEHOSHAPHAT iii.   1.1S3 

VALLEYS — • 

1.  Corner  of   Wall  of   Jerusalem   from 

Kidron  Valley  (Full  Page; iii. 

2.  Hills  and  Valleys  of  Jerusalem  with 

Modern  Names iii. 

3.  Modern    Arabs    Encamped    in    the 

Valley  of  Achor i. 

1.  Mount  Sinai  and  the  Adjacent  Val- 
leys  iv. 

5.  Slope  of  Zion — Tyropoeon  Vallev  at 

Right . .  .  v. 

(i.  Valley  of  Aijalon i. 

7.  Valley  of  Jehoshaphat iii. 

YAKIOUS  FORMS  OF  EGYPTIAN  HARPS iii. 

VEHICLES — • 

1.  Assyrian  Chariot i. 

2.  Assyrian  King  in  His  Chariot i. 

3.  Egyptian  Cart i. 

1.  Egyptian  War  Chariot i. 

5.  Litter iii. 

6.  Modern  Cart i. 

7.  Philistine  Wagons iv. 

S.  Sargon  in  His  War  Chariot iv.  2G93 

YK.VUOR  OF  WATER,  A  (Full  Page; v.  3074 

VIEW  FROM  Aix  JIDY,  LOOKING  SOI/TH.  .  .  .  ii.     SOS 

VlEW  FROM  THE  HEIGHTS  BEHIND  MASAI) A.  ii.       S09 
VlEW  FROM   MOUXT  OF  OLIVES  OvERLOOK- 

IXG  THE  DEAD  SEA  (Full  Page')  ii.  S02 

VIEW  FROM  TOP  OF  MorxT  SIXAI  (Full 

Page) iv.  2S02 

VIEWS  OF  BIBLE  LANDS — 

1 .  Abana  River ii.     779 

2.  Ain  Jidy,  Looking  South ii.     SOS 

3.  Anathoth,      Jeremiah's      Birthplace 

(Full  Page) iii.   ir>SS 

4.  Arches  of  Ancient  Aqueduct  at  An- 

tioch  (Full  Page) i.     058 

5.  Bank  of  the  Nile iv.  2145 

6.  Bazaar  at  Jaffa iii.   199.1 

7.  Bccrshcba,  Overlooking  the   Desert 

(Full  Page) i.  42 1 

S.  Bethany i.  442 

9.  Bethel i.  444 

10.  Bethphage.  .  i.  4f>l 


>-o      I 


11.  Boghaz-keuy:    The  Hittite  Fortress 

Called  Yenige  Kaleh  .  ii.   113S 

12.  Camels  at  the  Sea  of  Galilee.  .  -    i.     518 

13.  Cana  of  Galilee.  i.     .US 

14.  Canals  in  Egypt  ....  i.     5,12 
lit.  Carmel  of  Judah  .  i.     579 
If).  Citadel  of  Zion.  .                                        v.  31. 11 

17.  Convent  Garden,  Sinai.  .  .  iv.  2S04 

18.  In  the  Desert  of  Edom  .  .  ii.     832 

19.  Dot han  .  .  .  ii.     870 

20.  Dry  Wady  in  Edom  .  .  i.     .124 

21.  En-dor.  .  ii.     OH 

22.  En-gedi.  .  ii.     91.1 

23.  Entrance  to  the  Sik  .  .  .  iv.  2714 

21.  Field  of  Boaz  .  .  i.     491 

2.1.  The  Fountain  at  Khan  Minyeh i.     ,107 

2.').  Gehenna  and  Akeldamn         iii.   1391 

27.  General  View  of  Petra  (Full  Page;  .  .  iv.  2714 

Gethsemane ii.   1221 

Going  to  Market i.     .131 

Group  of  Lepers  Begging ..  iii.  ]S07 

Heights  behind  Masada.  .  ii.     S09 

The  Jabbok iii.   1540 

JebelUsdum  from  the  South,  Looking 
over  the  Mud  Flat  Covered  by  the 

Sea  at  High  Water ii.     SOI 

Magdala.  .  .  .  .iii.   1932 

Market-place  at  Jaffa i.     .133 

Mizpah  .  .  .  ...  iii.  2039 

37.  Mound  Covering  Nippur  Tower  .  .  .  .    i.     349 

38.  Mount   of   Olives  from    the   Golden 

Gate iv.  2187 

39.  Mount    of    Olives   Overlooking    the 

Dead  Sea  (Full  Page) ii. 

40.  Naphtali iv. 

41.  Nazareth,  from  the  Road  to  the  Plain 

of  Esdraelon iv.  2124 

42.  Part  of  Rock  of  Behistun iv.  2329 

43.  Pass  of  Michmash iii.  2348 

4  1.  Plain  of  Sharon iv.  2751 

4.1.  Pool  of  Bethesda i.     445 

40.  Rock  of  Masada iv.  27S§ 

47.  Ruined  Church  at  Kuriet iii.   1812 

48.  Ruins  of  Ancient  Corinth  with  Acro- 

Corinthus  in  the  Background ii.  711 

Ruins  of  Eleusis ii.  1303 

Ruins  in  Samaria iv.  2571 

Safed  and  Jebel  Jermuk v.  3008 

Sea  of  Galilee ii.  1 105 

Series  of  Baths  in  the  Cast  le  at  Gezer.  i.  415 
The  Shepherd's  Field  and  Fieltl  of 

Boaz i.  450 

Site  of  Ancient  Jericho iii.  1592 

Slope  of  Zion — Tyropoeon  Valley  at 

Right v.  3151 

Stone  in  Quarries  at  Baalbek iv.  2513 

Sunrise  over  the  Sea  of  Galilee  (Full 

Page) ii.  1160 

Tell  Hum — Traditional  Capernaum 

(Full  Page)  .  .  .  i.  507 

Tell  Taanach.  .  .  .iii.  1390 


53. 
54. 


58. 
59. 
00. 


1XDEX  OK  ILLUSTRATIONS 


1732 

2978 


202S 
603 

3030 

2122 


61.  Through  the  Rocks  at  Joppa iii. 

62.  Tiberias v. 

63.  Traditional  Megiddo — Ruins  of  Pal- 

ace   and    Public    Buildings    (Full 
Page) iii. 

64.  Traditional  Site  of  Brook  Chcrith.  .  .    i. 

65.  Tyre v. 

66.  "Up  to  Jerusalem"  from  the  Inn  of 

the  C.ood  Samaritan iv. 

67.  View  from  Top  of  Mount  Sinai  (Full 

Page) iv. 

6S.  Wadi-ul-Ain    (Presumed       Site 
Gerar) 

69.  Waters  of  Merom 

70.  Wilderness  of  Judaea 

71.  Wilderness  of  Judaea 

72.  Yezdikhast 

73.  Young  Camels  Grazing 

VIRGIN'S  FOUNT,  THE 

VOTIVE  OFFERING ij. 

WADI-UL-AIN  (PRESUMED  SITF.  OF  GERM-;       i. 
WALLS  OF  TELL  KJ  JUDEIDEH.  .  .  .         .  .  .    i. 

WAR— 

1.  Assyrian  Armed  Galley  in    Motion  ..  iv. 

2.  Assyrian  King  Placing  His  Foot  on 

the  Xeck  of  an  Enemy ii. 

3.  Assyrian  Standards  and  Banners  .  .  .  .    i. 

4.  Bas-relief  of  Sennacherib   Besieging 

Lachish iv. 

5.  Battering-ram iv. 

6.  Battle-axes  and  Spears i. 

7.  Bows,  Arrows  and  Quiver i. 

8.  Breastplate i. 

9.  Catapult  for  Hurling  Missiles.  .       .  .  iv. 

10.  Egyptian  Slinger i. 

11.  Egyptian  Standards i. 

12.  Egyptian  Swords i. 

13.  Egyptian  War  Chariot i. 

1  I.  Greaves  and  Sandals i. 

15.  Group  of  Ancient  Arms j. 

16.  Heavy-armed  Greek  Soldier i. 

17.  Helmet i. 

18.  Hittite  Warrior — Boghaz-keuy i. 

19.  Hittite  Warrior — Scnjirli iii. 

20.  Loopholes    through    Which    Arrows 

Were  Shot .    iv. 

21.  Persian  Warriors iv. 

22.  Roman  Standards  or  Banners v. 

23.  Sargon  in  His  War  Chariot iv. 

24.  Shield,  Sword,  and  Girdle i. 

25.  Siege  of  a  City ii. 

26.  A  Subject  People  Paying  Tribute 
WARNING  TABLET  OP  HEROD'S  TEMPLE. 

WASHING  BEFORE  EATIXG 

WATER  CARRIERS  WITH  SKIX  BOTTLES  . 

WATERS  OF  MEROM 

WATER-SUPPLY  (OF  JERUSALEM),  THE  . 
WATER   WHEEL   ox   RIVER   OROXTES    AT 

AXTIOCH  (Full  Page) i.     158 

WEAVING — - 

1.  Showing  "Shed"  of  Aral)  Loom..       .  v.  3078 


384 


v. 

iv. 

i. 

i. 
iii. 

in. 


2.  Showing  Upright  Loom v.  3078 

3.  Spindles v.  2841 

4.  The  Spinning  Woman ii.     922 

5.  Weaving  (Figure  1 ) v.  3077 

6.  Weaving  (Figure  2) v.  3077 

WEIGHTS  AXD  MEASURES — • 

1 .  Assyrian  Balance i.     380 

2.  Balance  (from  Egyptian  Tomb) i.     380 

3.  Bronze  and  Stone  Weights  Used  in 

Nineveh.  ., v.  3079 

1.  Weights  of  Phoenician  Standard .  .    .  v.  3080 
WELL  op  ABRAHAM  AT  BEEKSIIEHA   (Full 

1'age) i.        is 

WELLS,  RESERVOIRS  AXD  FOUXTAIXS — • 

1 .  Ancient  Aqueduct  at  Smyrna iv. 

2.  Arches  of  Ancient  Aqueduct  at  An- 

tioch  (Full  Page) i. 

3.  Fountain  at  Askar v. 

4.  The  Fountain  at  Khan  Minyeh i. 

5.  "Gideon's  Fountain"  in  the  Plain  of 

Esdraelon ii. 

6.  Jacob's  Well.  jii. 

7.  Plan  of  the  Baths  in  the  Castle  at 

Gezer i. 

8.  Pool  of  Bethesda i. 

0.  Pool  of  Hezekiah iii. 

.10.  Pools  of  Solomon i. 

11.  Reservoir  at  Gezer i. 

12.  Rock-cut  Aqueduct i. 

13.  St.  Mary's  Well  at  Nazareth ii. 

11.  Series  of  Baths  in  the  Castle  at  Gezer.   i. 

15.  Serpentine  Course  of  Siloam  Aque- 

duct   iv. 

16.  The  Virgin's  Fount ii. 

17.  The  Water-supply  (of  Jerusalem) .  .  .iii. 

18.  Well  of  Abraham  at  Beersheba  (Full 

Page) i. 

WlLDERXESS  OF  JuDAEA iii. 

WlLDERXESS  OF  JUDAEA v. 

WILD  GOAT  OF  SIXAI ii. 

WIXDOW iii. 

WOLF v. 

WOMAN'S  HEADDRESS  AXD  VEIL  (MODERN  j .  ii. 

WOMEN*  AT  A  MODERN*  MILL 

WORD-SIGNS  USED  BY  TEWA  INDIANS.  .  . 

WORMWOOD 

WORSHIPPING  HEAVENLY  BODIES i. 

WORSHIPPING  THE  LUNAR  DEITY i. 

WRITER,   His   PALETTE,    AXD    A   PAPYRUS 

LEAF,  A i. 

WRITING — 

1 .  Aramaic,  Greek  and   Latin   Writing 

in  Common   Use  in   Palestine  in 
Gospel  Times v. 

2.  Ancient    Manuscripts    on    Papyrus 

(Insert) ii. 

3.  Asshur-bani-pal's    Account    of    His 

Restoration  of  the  Stage-tower  at 
Nippur i.     294 

4.  Assyrian  Book i.     497 

5.  Boundary  Stone  of  Nebuchadrezzar 

I  .iv.  2128 


658 

2876 
567 

993 
1556 

414 
445 
1386 
659 
658 
659 
874 
415 

2791 
1229 
1609 

IS 

1757 

3064 

1249 

1436 

3099 

877 

2052 

3118 

3109 

370 

371 

496 


3125 
2238 


INDEX  OK   ILLUSTRATIONS 


301 
350 

3  19 

3o4 

1854 


3121 
2SL 
374 

2597 


6.  Brick  Stamp  of  Sargon  I. .  i- 

7.  Building  Inscription  of  Nabopolassar  i. 

8.  Building    Inscription    of    Nebuchad- 

rezzar II 

9.  Clay  Tablet  with  Seal  Inscription..        i. 

10.  Code  of  Hammurabi  (Insert) .  .  hi- 

11.  Common   Egyptian   Writing   during 

the  Bondage 

12.  Common   Egyptian   Writing   in   the 

Time  of  Abraham . 

13.  Cuneiform  Tablet  from  Boghaz-keuy  i. 
1  1.  The  Deluge  Tablet .  .  i- 
15.  Egyptian  Roll  and  Case  .  .                 .  .  iv. 
111.  From  an  Engraving  on  a  Babylonian 

Cylinder  Representing  the  Sun 
God  and  One  of  His  Priests.  .  i. 

17.  Facsimile  of  Codex  Ephraemi  R;'- 
scriptus 

is.  Facsimile  of  Codex  Sinaiticus.  . 

19.  Facsimile  Minuscule  Manuscript. 

20.  Fragments  of  Inscribed  Vases  of  the 

Early  Sumerian  Period i- 

21.  Greek  Papyrus  Containing  Matthew 

1:1-9.12.13.14-20 iv. 

22.  Hebrew  Inscribed  Tablet  fromGezer.    i. 

Hieroglyphic  Writing 

Impression  of  a  Seal  Cylinder.  .  i- 
Ink-wells    and    Pen-case    with    Ink- 
well  i'»- 

2().  Inscribed     Tablet     Impressed     with 

Seals • -iv. 

27.  Inscription    and    Mutilated    Figure 

from  Jerabis 

28.  The  Installation  of  Umman-igas  ..       ii. 

29.  "Israel"  Stele  in  Museum  at  Cairo 

(Full  Page) i»- 

30.  Jewish  Mnemonic  Fringes . 

31 .  Last  Stand  of  Te-umman  .  .  .  ii- 

32.  Letter  from  the  Governor  of  Jerusa- 

lem about  1375  BC  .  . 

33.  Message  Sticks 

34.  Moabite  Stone.  . 

35.  Modern    Egyptian    Writing    Mate- 

rials. .  v.  3119 


360 

2211 
105 

3118 
291 

14G9 
2152 

1401 

920 

.  1510 
.  3117 
.  921 

.  3120 

.  31  Ki 
.  2071 


38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 

42. 
43. 
44. 
45. 
46. 
47. 
48. 
49. 
50. 

51. 

52. 

53 
54 


56 

57 
58 
59 
60 
ill 
62 
63 


New  Sayings  of  Jesus .  . 

Niches  and  Tablets  at  Banias  (Full 

Page).  .  >• 

Ostracon  with  Luke  22:  ,01'.. 
ThcPaestos  Disk,  Face  A  .  i. 

Pn/xjruK  Antiquofum  .  . 
Presentation  of  Umman-igas  to  1 1  is 

Subjects  by  the  Assyrian  General    ii. 
Primitive  Alphabets  (Insert)  . 
Primitive  Signs  Like  A.  . 
The  Quipu .... 

A  Reader  with  a  Roll.  .  i- 

Samaritan  High  Priest  with  Scroll. .  .  iv. 
Scribe's  Palette.  ...  •  •  ui- 

Scribes  with  Utensils .  . 
Seal  Cylinders .  .  i- 

Section  of  Codex  Washingtoniensis- 

Mark  1:1-7  (Insert).  . 
Signs  of  the  Cave-dwellers  .  . 
Siloam  Inscription— Writing  at  Jeru- 
salem at  the  Time  of  Hezekiah  .  .  .  v. 
Stone  Object  Containing  an  Inscrip- 
tion of  Nebuchadrezzar  1    . 
Table    Showing    Script    of    Semitic^ 

Languages 

Terra-cotta  Cylinder  Containing  the 
History  of  the  Capture  of  Babylon 
by  Cyrus  the  Great .  . 
,  Text  of  the  Code  of  Hammurabi.  ii. 
.  Timothcus  Papyrus .  . 
.  Title  on  the  Cross .  . 
.  Warning  Tablet  of  Herod's  Temple,  iv. 
.  Word-signs  Used  by  Tewa  Indians.  .  v. 
.  Worshipping  Heavenly  Bodies.  . 
.  Worshipping  the  Lunar  Deity . 
A  Writer,  His  Palette,  and  a  Papyrus 
Leaf  .  .  > 


2952 
3121 

3120 


01  o 
1329 
22  10 
29S8 
2254 
3118 
370 
371 

496 

YEZDIKHAST lv- 

YOKE  OF  ANCIENT  PLOW 

YOUNC;  CAMELS  GRAZING i-     ;)l( 


ZEUS  FROM  MYLASA 


1297 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OP  THE  LANDS  OF  THE  BIBLE 


LIST  OF  MAPS 


World   and    the    Descendants    of         8 


1.  The   Ancient 

Noah 

2.  Sinai  and  Palestine,  Showing  Israel's  Journeys 

through  the  Desert 

3.  Canaan  at  the  Time  of  the  Conquest 

4.  Canaan  as  Divided  among  the  Twelve  Tribes 

5.  Babylonian  Empire 

6.  Persian  Empire 

7.  Grecian  Empire 


Roman  Empire 
9.  The  Dominions  of  David  and  Solomon 

10.  The  Kingdoms  of  Judah  and  Israel 

11.  Palestine  in  the  Times  of  the  New  Testament 

12.  Missionary  Journeys  of  St.  Paul 

13.  Environs  of  Jerusalem 

14.  Galilee 

15.  Ancient  Jerusalem 

16.  Modern  Jerusalem 


ALPHABETICAL    LIST    OF     BIBLICAL    PLACE-NAMES     PROPERLY     LOCATED     MY 
NUMBER    FOLLOWED    BY    KEY    NUMERALS    AN,,    T^TF^ 


MAI' 


A 

Adoraim    . 

i  ••>  i 

Abana   River  

.    1.   10,   11—  GA;    <)  —  U 

Adramyttium 

r     '>ti 

Abdon  

.  ..  .4—  3C 

Adriatic  Sea 

i  •>     •>  \ 

Abedije  
Abel-beth-maacah 
Abel-incholah    . 
Abel-shit  tim 

*    i 

14—  f>G 
.  .  1,  10,  11—  4C;    (.»  -41 
..4,  10—  4  F 
..3,  4—  III 

Adullam  .  . 
Adummim  . 

Aegyptus.  . 
Africa  

i  -       o.V 

-4,  10—  3J;  3—21 
1—31  1;   13—5].] 
.8—  5E 
S—  3E 

Abcz  

.  .  4—  3E 

Afirippa,  Pal; 

ice  of 

1  .1  —4  1  ) 

Abiad,  Wady  el  .... 

A  1    *1 

.  ...2  -5E 

Ahlab  

1      1C 

Abila  
Abilene 

.11  -5E 

-,  \ 

Ahmar,  Kh.  c 
\; 

>] 

13—  5E;   14  —  LM 

Abimael  ... 

O.  Y 

1      7F 

•  M  

3,  4,   10,   11—  Mil;    2 

Absalom,  Tomb  of  . 

A    7                 TX  * 

1.")    -.-)!) 

1  'V 

Ai,  Hai,  Aiath  (Kh.  Ilaiyan).  13—  4C 

Abu  Dis  

.  13—  4  F 

Aijalon  

.4  —  311 

Abu  el  Ilaniam,  Wady. 
Abu  esh  Sheba,  Kh  

13    -3L 

.  !  1  —  3B 

Aijalon,  Valley  of. 
Ailbun  

.3—  Hi;  3—211 

OT^) 

Abumudauwar  

.14—  7J 

Ain,  Wady  el 

OJ-/ 

2   -4F 

Abu  Said,  Wady  

.  14—  GX 

;'   Ain  'Arik,  Wadv 

3  —  2A 

AbuShushch,  Kh..  . 

.  .14—  1C 

Ain  Atan.  .  .  . 

9TI 

Abyssinian  Church.    . 

.10—1  A 

Ain  ed  Duk,  see  Docus 

•   I'J         wli. 

13—  OC 

Accad  

.    1—  GD 

Ain  el  Feshkhah  .  . 

1  3  —  7Q 

Acco,  see  Ptolemais 

.3,  4,   10,   11—31);    2- 

Ain  el  Ghuwoir  

13—  7.J 

GA;  9—  3G 

Ain  el  Kudcrat  

2  4  F 

Achaia  

.  .  .S,  12—  4C 

Ain  el  Kuseimeh  . 

2  —  1  F 

Achor,  Valley  of.  . 
Achshaph  .  .  . 
Achzib  (Ecdippa)  . 

.  .  13—  GD 
1     3D 
.3.4,11—  3C 

Ain  el  Mudauwcrah.  . 
Ain    cl-Muweileh     (Hagar 
Well)  . 

14—41) 

s 

O         11," 

Acra  

.15—  3C 

Ain  el  Weibeh 

(Kadesh?). 

.  —  T  J 

i      i 

Adam  
Adamah  
Adamah  (Damieh)..  . 
Adamah,  see  Adami.  . 

.  4—  4G 

..4—  4E;  11—  4C 
.  14—  4F 
.  14—  oil 

Ain  et  Tannur 
Ain  et  Tinch.  . 
Ain  et  Trabeh. 
Ain  Ilaud,  see 

En  Sheme-h 

.  13—  7G 
.  14—  5C 
13—  7.J 
13—  4F 

.  .  4—  4E 

14    MI 

Ain  Jalud,  see  Well  of  Ilarod 
Ain  Kadeis  (Kadesh).  .  .  . 
Ain  Kana  
Ain  Karim,  see  Beth-car?. 
Ain  Mahil.  see  Xahallal  . 

14—  2  K 
2—  4F 
14—  IF 
13—  2  F 
14—  2F 

Adami  (Adamah)  .  .  . 

Adasa  (Adaseh)  
Adaseh,  see  Adasa. 
Adjlun,  Wady  

..13—  3D 
.13—  3D 
.11—  4G 

3528 


INDEX  TO  Tin-:  ATLAS  OK  THE  LANDS  OK  THE  HIHLI: 


Ain  Slia'in  ?,  see  Shihon    .  . 

.14—  2  K 

Arad.  . 

3,4,  10,  11      2K 

9—31 

Ain  Sinia  

13—  3A 

Aral  Sea.  .  .  . 

1-  7C 

\in  Tu'iKiun    s  v  Tulxima 

1  1—  2K 

Aram  

1    -OD 

Ain  Ye'.jraJ.  . 

.13—115 

Aram  (,r  Syria  .  . 

.!)—r,l) 

Airiawiych 

.13—11: 

A  raxes  River 

.0—  4B 

Viva 

11      1C 

Arbela.  . 

.11       1L  and  (il-: 

.  \jalon  

.4—  3E;  10     :;il 

Arbela  (Irbid 

1  1      11) 

Akabah,  Gulf  of. 

2—  5J 

Archi  

1      311;    13     2C 

Akbara. 

11    -4A 

Archipelago 

12     OC 

Akrabbim  . 

4-1M 

Argob. 

3,    10     7C;     1 

HI);    '.) 

Ak&i  

.  10—  5C 

:,F 

Akur 

l:;  -IF 

Anana  .... 

0     OC;   7     OM 

AliMnclli,  Alinon  . 

.13—  4E 

'Arish,    Wady    el    (Kiver 

of 

Aleppo  

'.)  -.-)!{ 

Egypt;  . 

.  .2—  4E 

Alexandria  

.('»,   7    -2C;    7  -C»A   and 

Armenia  

.5,  0,  7—  4B;  s 

-OC 

.-)(';    ]'_>—  S(i 

Armenian  Convent  .  . 

10  -3D 

Alinodad 

.  1—  OK 

Armenian  Quarter  .  . 

..10     3D 

Aloth  

10    3C 

Ar-moab  

.1,  10      IK;  '.) 

11 

Alush?  

.2      I.I 

Arnon  River    . 

3,  10-.-).!;  2—7 

I);   1— 

Alya,  Wady  

.13     111 

IK;  9—41 

Ainad  

.4—  3C 

Arnon    Uiver,    see    \\  ady 

el 

Amalekites  .  .  . 

.2-11 

Mojih  

11      oK 

Aniatha  ... 

.11—  4E 

Aroer  

.2-7D;   3—  5J; 

4—  5K 

Ainiiioii  ...                    

.  i,  10.  H—  /H; 

and  2L;    9— 

'•>\    and 

Ammonites  

;;    mi:  9—51 

41;      10—5.1; 

11 

Ammonium 

.  7—  2C 

2L,  oil  and  .1 

K 

Amoritcs  .  .  . 

.2—01) 

Ar  of  Aioab  

.3—  5J 

Amphipolis  .  . 

12—  5  B 

Arphaxad  

.1—  GE 

Aniud,  Wady  ol  .  .  .     . 

.14  —  1C  and  71\ 

Ar  (Rabbath-moabj  

.11     -5K 

Anuvas,  see  Emmaus  

.11—  2H 

Arrabet  el  Buttauf  .  . 

.  14—  2C 

Amygdalon,  Pool  of  

.  1  .->  -3C 

Arrub,  Wady  el  

.13  -3J 

Anab  

.4—  2K 

Arvad  

.0—  ID 

Anaharal  h  

.4—41'] 

Ascension,  Clmreli  of  the. 

.16—70 

Anaharath  ?  (on  Naurah)  .  . 

.14—3,1 

Ashdod  

3     11:     4  —  III 

lO- 

Ananiim  

.  1  -4E 

211 

Ananaiali  

.13—  3E 

Ashdod  i,A/ot  us;  

11  —  1,1 

Anata,  see  Anathoth  ... 

.  13—  4E 

Asher  

.  .4—  3C 

Anatliotli  

.10—311 

Ashik,  Kh.  el  .  . 

.  14—  7E 

Anathoth  (Anata)  .  . 

.13—11: 

Ashkelon  

.    1,   11  —  1,1;    3  - 

ll:    10 

Ancient  Road 

.3—  IB 

—III 

Ancyra  

.12—  9B 

Ashkenaz  

.1—  (5D 

Aneni.  . 

4—31- 

Ashtaroth  

.3—  5E 

Anini  .... 

.4—  3K 

Ashtaroth-karnairn 

3,  4,  10—  OD 

Anti-Lebanon  . 

1,  11—  5A 

Asia  

.   S—  ol):   12  -7( 

•Vnt  ioch 

7—  3C;    (.»  —  IB:     12— 

A<oehis,   Plain  of    (Sahel 

el 

SC  and  101) 

Buttaufj 

.    14—21) 

Ant  iochia  

.8—  5D 

Asshur  

1—01) 

Antipatris  

.11—  2G 

Assos.  .  .  . 

12—OC 

Ai.tonia  Praotorium  .... 

i.")—  in 

Assyria  

.  .5—  4B;  7—  1C 

Antonia,  Tower  of  

.10—  4B 

Assyrians,  Cam})  of  the.    . 

.    15—  2C 

Aphek  .  . 

3,  4—  5E;    <)—  4(1;     10 

Ataroth    . 

3—41;  4—311 

—  5D 

Atharoth  

.11—311 

Apollonia  

.11—  2G;    12—  oB     and 

Athens  

12—  oD 

5G 

Attalia.  .  .  . 

.1.2—  SD 

Appenine  Alts  

12—  2B 

Attara,  see  Baal  Tamar  . 

13—  3C 

\ppn  Korum 

12—  1  A 

Audjeh  River  

.  .11—  2(J 

Arabah,  Wady  el  

.2—  OK 

Aujeh,  el  

•>     -M,' 

.    .  -j          tH.  J 

Arabia 

5,  0,  7  —  ID;    1,  S—  OE 

Aulam  

.  .  14—  4G 

Arabian  C!  ,;lf 

.0  —  3D 

Vuramtis 

11—  OC 

Aral>ian  Sea 

.  1—  5E 

Austrian  Hospice  

.10—415 

Arab  Protestant  Church..  . 

.  10—  2A 

Ainvad  ... 

3    iii 

Arab,  Wady  el. 

14—0,1 

Amvaj,  A\  'ady  el  

13—  ->K 

3530 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  THE  BIBLE 


Awanish,  el ...  14 — 7D 

Azekah 3 — 21 ;  4- 

Aziriych,  see  Bethany 13 — 4F 

Azmaveth  (Ilixineh) 13 — ID 

Azotus?,  Mount  (BirezZeit).  13— 3A 
Azotus,  see  Ashdod .  .          .   11 — 1,1 


Baalath 

Baalbek 

Baal-gad 

Baal   ha/or  (Teli  Asur) 

Baal-meon 

Baal-shalisba 

BaalTamar  (AttaraL 

Baal  Zcplion 

Babel 

Babylon 

Babylonia .  . 

Babylonian  Empire. 

Bactriana 

Bahr  Lut,  see  Dead  Sea 
Bahr  Tubariya,  see  Lake 

Tiberias 

Bamoth-baal 

Barium 

Barrack 

Ba>han    . 


.3— 1A;  13— IB 
.9— 4E 
.4—50 
.  13— 4  A 
.4—4,1;  11—,-),] 
.10— 3G 

13— 3C 

2  -  2F 

1— GD 
.  .I,  7— 1C 

5,  o,  7— 4C 
.o— 4C;  ti    3C 
.G,  7— <>B 

13    -7K 


of 


Baslian,  Conquest  of 
Bashan,  Hills  of 
Bassas,  Wady 
Beeroth.  . 
Beeroth  (Bireh)  ... 
Beersheba  ....... 


.  11  —  ()E 
.4  —  4,1 

12  —  2B 
10—  3D 

3—  GD;     4—  oC;     10- 

6C 

3  —  5E 
9  —  5G 

13  —  4K 
.3,  4  —  3H 
.  13  —  3C 

.3,  4,  10,  11—  2K;    2 
5E;  9—31 


Beisan,  see  Beth-shean  .....  14  —  4M 
Beit  Ainun,  Kh.,  see   Beth- 

anoth  .....  .  .  13  —  2K 

Beit  Anan  ................  13  —  2D 

Beit  Fejjar  ...............  13—  2J 

Beit  Hannina,  Wady  .......  13—  3E 

Beit  Iksa  ....  .  .  13—  3E 

Bcitin,  see  Bethel,  Luz  .....  13—  4B 

Beit  Izza  .................  13  —  2D 

Beit  Jala,  see  Gallim  .......  13—  3G 

Beit  Jubr  ................  13—  7D 

Beit  Lahin,  see  Bethlehem  .  .  13—  3G 

Beit  Likia  ................  3—  1C;  13—1D 

Beit  Mizza,  Kh.,  see  Mozah.  13—  2E 
Beit  Sahar  ...............  13—  3G 

Beit  Skaria,  Kh.,  see  Beth- 

zacharias  ...............  13  —  2H 

BeitSufafa  ...............  13—  3F 

Beit-sur,  see  Beth-zur  ......  13  —  IK 

Beit  Surik  ................  13  —  2E 

Beit  Tamir  ...............  13—311 

Beit  Tul,  see  Jcthlah  .......  13—  IE 

Beitunia  .................  13—  2C 

Beit  Ur  cl  Foka  ...........  3—  2B 

Beit  Ur  et  Tahta  ..........  3—  2B 

Belus  River.  .  .  .11—  3D 


Bene-berak  ...............  4  —  2G 

Beni  Nairn,  see  Janum  .....  13  —  21 

Benjamin  ................  4—  311 

Beraeah,  Valley  of  .........  13  —  2J 

Berea  ...................  12  —  5B 

Bered  ...................  9  —  31 

Berenice  ................  12  —  3G 

Berotliah.  ...  .  .9  —  3E 

Berytus  .....  .....  12—  10F 

Bethabara  .  .......  11  —  4H 

Bcthabara?  Beth-barah 

(Makht  Abarah)  .......  14—  5  K 

Beth-anath  ......  ...  .4  —  4C 

Beth-anoth  .......  .    4—  3J 

Beth-anoth  (Kh.  Beit  Ainun).  13—  2K 
Bethany.  .  .  .  .  11—311 

Bethany  (A/iriyeh)  .  .  .  13  —  4F 

Beth-baal-meoii  .  .  .  .3  —  r>I 

Bet  h-ba  rail.  .  .  .  .4  —  4E 

Beth-barah,  Bethabara? 


(Mukht  Abarah) 

Beth-car?  (Ain  Karim  I. . 

Beth-dagon 

Bethel.  . 

Bethel,  Luz  (Beit in   . 

Bet  her  (BittirJ 

Bethesda,  Pool  of. 

Beth-haran  

Betb-boglab.  . 

Beth-horon 

Beth-horon  and  Vicinity. 

Beth-jeshimoth 

Bethlehem .  . 


Bethlehem  (Beit  Lahm)  . 


1  1—  5K 

13  —  21" 
.4  —  211 

3,    4,    9,    ]()     11—  3H; 

2—  6C 
.13  —  IB 
.13  -2G 
.  K;  —  ,115 

3,  4  —  n[ 

4,  11—  4  If 


.3  —  2B 
3,  4  —  411 
.4,  11—3,1; 
4—  3E; 
2—  GD 
.  13—  3G 


9,  10—311; 
12—  IOC!; 


Beth-nimrah  ..............  3,  4,  11  —  4J[ 


Bethphage 

Betliphaye?  (Kefr  ct  Tor) 
Beth-rchob.  . 
Bethsaida.  . 
Bcthsaida-.Iulias 
Beth-shean 


I  1—  311 
.  13—  4F 

3,  4  —  4C; 
.  11  —  4D 

II  —  ,5]);  14  —  CM 

3,  4—  4F;    9—  4G;     10 


41'] 
Beth-shcan  (Beisan)  .......  14—  4N 

Beth-shemesh  .  ..4,  10  —  2H;    11  —  4D 

Beth-shittah  .  4—  4E 

Beth-shit  tab  (Shutta)  ......  14—  3  K 

Beth-tappuah  .....  I  —  3,J 

Beth-zacharias     (Kb.     Beit 

Skaria)  .  .  13—  2H 

Beth-zur.  ...  .4,  10  —  3J 

Beth-zur  (Beit-sur)  .  .  .  13  —  IK 

Betonim  .................  3  —  4H 

Betsaanim?  (Sahel  el  Ahma)  14—  4F 

Bezek  ...................  4,  11—  4F;   3—  2H 

Bezer  .  .  .  .3—5,1;  4—  4K;  9—41 

Bezetha  ..................  1G  —  4B 

Biar,  Wady  el  ............  13—211 

Bileam  .......          ........  4  —  3F 

Bileam  or  Ibleam.  .  .  .3  —  3F 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  THE  BIBLE 


3531 


Birch,  see  Beeroth .  . 

Birch,  Wudy  cl 14—5.1 

Bircin,  cl 2— 5F 

Bir-csSuk.  .  •  .13— 5  F 

Bir  ez  Zeit,  see  Mt.  Azotus  ?   13— 3A 
Birket  os  Sultan.  10— 2E 

Birket  Mumila .  .  .10— 1C 

BirXebala.  .13— 3D 

Bithvnia.  .  -.6,  7— 2B;     R— 5C;    12 

—SB 

Bittir,  sec  Bother.  13—2(1 

Biyar  Maycin  .2— 5F 

Black  Sea.  .  ..1— 5C;     6— 3A;    12- 

9  A 

Boeotia..  • -8 — 1C 

Bolian,  Stone  of.  ...  13— 7 F 

Bosphorus.  .  -  .0— 2B;   12— 7 A 

Boundary  Line  between  Tur- 

key  and  Egypt 2— 5F 

Bozkath.  .  .  ,  4—2,1 

Bozrah 2,  10— 7E;    1,11-lM; 

3— 7F;  9— 4J 
Breikut,  Kh. .  .  13— 2,T 

Breka ..14— 7F 

Britannia •  -8 — 2A 

BrookBesor.  .  .11— IK 

Brundisiurn 

Brusa..  .  .  12-7B 

Bukeia,  el.  .  13—0(1 

Burak.el..  .13-211 

Burkah .  .  13— 4C 

Bvblos,seeGebal.  .  .  .  .0— 4C 

Byzantium,    see    Constanti- 
nople  1'- — 715 


Cabbon.  .  .  1— 2.J 

Cabal 4,  10-3D;  9-3G;   11 

-4C 

Cabura 7— OC 

Caesarea..  ...11-2F;    12— IOC  and 

10F 
Caesarea  Philippi .  . 

Caiaphas,  House  of 10 — 3K 

Cain •  .4— 3K 

Calah 1— OD 

Callirhoe...  11—4.1 

Calnch 1— OD 

Calvary?...  15— 4  A 

Cana 1 1—3K 

Cana?  (Kh.  Kami) 14— ID 

Cana  of  Galilee  (Kefr  Kenna)14— 2F 

Canaan 1-5D;  2— GC 

Canaanites 2— OB;  3-31)  ami  4(1 

Capernaum 1 1 

Capernaum  (Kh.  Minieh)..  .14 — 5C 
Caphtorim  .  .  1— 4D 

Cappadocia  .  .  .  .0,  7— 3B;    S— 5C;     12 

—IOC 

Carchemish 5 — 3B 

Caria ..6,7— 2B;  12-7D 

Carrnnnia.  .  0,  7— 5D 


Carmcl .  . 
Carmcl,  Mount 


4,  11—  3K;   9—31 
.3,  4,  11—  2D;    0—3(1: 

10— 3D 
.  10— 7C 

s— 3D 

1— 5E 

1— 7D;  0— IB 

0— 4B 


Carmelites'  Convent  ... 

Carthage 

Casluliim  ... 
Caspian  Sea .... 
Caucasus,  Mount . .  . 
Ccdron    or    Kidron,    Brook 

(\Yady  en  Nar) .  13— 5(1 

Central  Campaign  . 
Chephar-hammon-ai  ?    (Kei'r 

Ana)    13-4B 

Chephirah.  .  :>.  4—311 

Chephirah  (Kefireh)  .  .  .13— IE 

Chesalon 

Chesulloth I     '^ 

Chesulloth  (Iksal)  .  .  14—1(1 

Chinnereth.  .  .  11—110 

Chinnereth,  Sea  of. .  .  .    1,      10—11);       2— 7A; 

3— 4E;    9— 4G;     14 
-    OD 
Chios...  .  .12— 6C 

Chorazm 11      11) 

Chorazin  (Kerazeh) 14 — 5B 

Chozcba  (Kh.  KueizibaJ.    .  .  13— 2K 

Christian  Cemetery ItJ— 3E 

Church  of  the  Tomb  of  the 

Virgin 10— OB 

Cilicia A  7-3B;    S-5D;    12 

— 10D 

Citadel 15— 2D 

Clauda •  •  12— 5E 

Cnidus .12— 7D 

Colossae .  12— 7D 

Conquest  of  Bashan    .  .3 — 5l> 

Conquest  of  Gilcad.  .  .  .3 — 51 

Constantinople  (Byzantium  i  12— 7B 

Corinth 12— 5D 

Cos 12-OD 

Crete .7-2B;    S-4D;     12— 

5E 
C'u<h  1 — 5F  and  OF 

Cyprus .0-2C;     8-5D;     9- 

1D;  12— 9E 
Cvrene..  12-1(1 


I) 

.4— 3E 
14— 2G 
.  .8— 4B 

.  .4,   11— 0 A;    5— 3B;    0 
— 3C;    9— 4F;    IO- 
TA; 12— 10F 
.  10— 3B 
.  .  .14— IF 
.  .2— ID 

.4,  10— 5B;  4— 211  and 
3C;  9— 4F;  11— 
4C;  12— 10F 

Dan  or  Laish  .  .                        .3— 41 J;  4— 5B 
Daphne 12-10D 


Daberath 

Daberath  (Deburieh) 

Dacia 

J  )amascus 


Damascus  Clate .     . 
Damieh,  see  Adamah 

Damietta 

Dan.  . 


3532 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  THE  BIBLE 


Dar  el  Jerir,  Wady 13—513 

David  Street 1G— 3C 

David's  Tomb 15— 3C;  1G— 3E 

Dead    Sea    (Bahr   Lut),    see 


Salt  Sea. 


Debir . 


Deburieh,  see  Daberath 

Decapolis 1 1 5 

Dedan 1 -^ 

Deir  Diwan 13 4Q 

Deir  esh  Sheikh 13— IF 

Deir  Hanna 14 QQ 

Deir  Hassan,  Kh.. 

Deir  Ibzia 

Deir  Yesin 

Dekakin,  Wady  ed 

Derma 

Derajeh,  Wady  ed 

Derbe 

Derb    el    Hajj     or 
Route  to  Mecca 

Dilj011 ,1,11—  5K; 

— 5J 

Dibon,  or  Dimon 3 -,j 


11— 4K;    12— lOd 

— 7K 
1,  11— 2K 

— 5E 
14—  2(J 


3—  2A 
13—9C 

•  I 

13—  3F 
.  .13—  5  F 
.14—  411 
.13—  6  K 
.  12—  9D 
'ilgrim 
.  .  2—  4H 

Diklah  .  . 

1        IT 
•  .  1       0  1^ 

Dimon  or  Dibon  

.  .3—  5J 

Dmm  or  Dieu,  see  Eidun. 

.  .3—  5E 

Docus  (Ain  ed  Dukj 

.  .  13—  GC 

Dodanirn  

.  .1  —  ID 

Dolorosa,  Via  .... 

.  .Hi—  4B 

Dominicans'  Convent 

.  .16—  3A 

Dophkah  ? 

2  3  7 

Dor  

'•!      1     1  n 

•  O,     4,     10, 

GB 

Dorylaion  .  .  . 

I9      "*U 

Dothan  .  .  . 

3    4,   10 

GB 

Double  date  

.  15—51) 

Duer,  ed  

.14—  Gd 

Duerban  

.  14—  GF 

Duket  kafr-akib  . 

.  14—  7C 

Dyrrachium  

.  12—  3A 

11— 2E;    2 


II      3F;    2— 


;  13 
;   13 

10 

Ekseir,  Wacly  el 

.  

14     gj 

Elam.  . 

1        ^T?1 

Elath.  . 

2(\rj.    f\       oi 

Elcalch  . 

3—  511 
..13—  1C 
10—311 
.11—  2J 
..2—31 
.  .  1—  3D 
4     'Mr 

Elcasa  
Elen-beth-haman 
i   Eleutheropolis  . 
Klim  
Elishah  . 

Eton. 

Emesa  .... 

9—51) 

Emmaus  
Eninuiu.s  (Aimvas) 
Emmaus?  (Kulanieh). 
Encampment    by    the 

Sou  
Endor. 

.  .  .  .11—  4E 
..11—211 
.  .  13—2I-] 
Red 
2—31 
•-.4,      11—11-:;      9—  3G; 
14—211 
-4—  2J  and  3F 
.4,  11—  4K;    9—31;    10 
—  4J 

.  .  .10-  3K 

4  —  ic 

Engannim  ... 
Engodi  .  .  . 

English  Cemetery  
En-hazar  

En-rimmon  
En-tappuah.  . 

Entrance  of  Ilainath?.  . 
Ephesu.s  .  . 
Ephraim  

.  ..4,  10-2K 
.  ..4—  3G 
.  ..9—lD 
.  .12—  6D 

4  11    3(  ; 

Ephraim,  .Mount 
Erech  
Eriha,  see  Jericho 
Erythraean  Sea 
Esh-sheh,  Wady  . 
Kshtaol  
Estemoa  
Ktam  
Etam  (Ur(as).  . 

.   3,  4,  10,   11—  3d 
.  .  1—  GE 
.  .  .  13—  7D 
.  .  .6—  (iD 
.  .14—  5  K 
...4—  311;   11-211 
.  .4—  3K 
.4—  2K;  11—  3J 
.  .  13—311 

Ebal,  Mount  
Eber  .  .  . 

....2—  GC;    4—  3d;     11 
4G 
.  .  1—51) 
.0—  5B;  (5—  4(1 
.11—  3C 
.3—  4L;  9—  4J;   10—  2  L 
2  —  7G 

Ecbatana.  . 

Ecdippa,  see  Achzib  .  .  . 
Edom  .  . 

Edom,  Land  of. 

Edrei  .  . 

.  3,  4—  GE 
..4,  11—  2J;   3—21 
.  12—  4B 

.  .  .2—  1G;  5—  3C;  6—  2D: 

7—  2C;  12—  8H 

Eglon  

Egnatia,  Via  .  . 

Egypt  

Etrvnh.    "RiYpr  rvf    c   /,   A\ 

Etharn,  Wilderness  of .  . 
Ethiopia ... 

Et-Tih,  Desert  of  (Paranj 
Eughib 

Euphrates    River    (Great 

River) 

Ezion-geber.  . 


.  2— 2d 

.'i,  7     21'] 
.2—411 
14— 7E 

"),  G— 4C; 
)— 3L 


)— GB 


,   see  Wady 

el  'Arish 2 4E 

Eidun  (Dium  or  Dieu)  .3— 5E 

Ekron  3,  4,  10,  11— 2H-    9— 

31 F 


I;air  Havens 12 -,]<] 

Farah,  Wady 13— 5D 

Faria,  Wady  el 3— 3d; 

Feij-at,  A\'ady  Cs 14— 7B 

Fejjas,  Wady 14— 5G 

Ferry  .  .  11     t-c< 

J  it bLr 

Feshkhah,  Has 13— 7G 

Fikrah,  Wady  el  3— 3L 

First  Wall..  ..15— 3D 

Fish  Gate..  15— 3C 

Frank  Mountain,  see  Hero- 

diurn  (Jebel  Fureidis)  ....  13— 3H 
Frcka  .  .  14— GK 

French  Pilgrims'  Ho 1G— 2B 

Fuleh,  el 14 |j 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  THE   BIBLE 


3533 


Gaash  River  . 
Gud  
Gadara. 

G 

11—  3G 

4—  4G 
11—  4  E 
14—711 
(i,  7—  (iD 
.8—  5C;  12—  9  B 
1111) 
11      11);  14  —  tiD 
.8—  2B 
13—  3G 
.11—  4E 
)..  .1  1  --71'] 
If)—  4A;  1C)—  4  A 
.3—21;     9—  311;     11 
211 
.3—  3E 
;d).  14—  IF 
.4—  2.1;   10—211 
.11—  5D 
3,  4,   10,   11  —  1J;    2— 

Gilead,  Mount  

.2—  7C;    1    -4G;    3,    11 
—  5G 
.3,    4,    10,    11  —  111;     3, 
10—  3G;    2     7C;    9 
--3II;   10—  2G 
13—  U 
1  1  -4C 
1    -211;   10     L><; 
3,  4,  10,  11-51) 
15—  5G 
1  —  f)C 
.13—  3  B 
7—  3B 
.2—  IF 
s 
9—  (iA 
4,     10—21);     9,     11— 
210;    1  —41);   2  —  1C; 
3—  IE 
.(>,  7—  2B 
.  7 
12—41) 
.  1(5—  <)C 
16—  3C 

4—  3E 

4—  2J 
1—  6F 

12—  4.  \ 

2—  4F 
13—  4  D 

'l3—  4C 
4—  3J 
13—  IK 
5,  6—  3B;  12—  9B 
14—51) 
9—  5C  and  51) 
13—  3  B 
14—  5E 

14—  7G 
14—  OD 
4—  3C 
14—  2  K 
3,  4—  3E;  11—  4C 
11—  4B 
14—41) 
4—  (510 
13—  2G 
1—  5F  and  <»K 
4—  6D 
9—510 
2—51 
13—710 
3,  4,  10,  11—  4C;    10— 
3G;   11—  U  and  3H 
13—  3E 
13—  3E 
3,  10,  11—  3J;    9—31 

Gilgal 

Giloh  (Kh.  Jala*. 
Gischala  . 
(  lini/o 

Gadara,  (Makes  ) 
Gadrosia 
Galatia.  . 
Galilee.  . 
Galileo,  Sea  of 
Gallia.  . 
Gallim  (Beit  Jala)    . 
Gainala  .  .  .  . 
Gainala?  (Kulat,  el  llosn 
Garden  Tomb 
Gath  

(  lolun  
<  lolden  Gate 
(  lonier  . 
(  lophna  Ophni  (Jufna  ) 
Gordium 
Goshen,  Land  of  
Great  River,  see  Euphrate 
River  
Great  Sea  (Mediterranean) 

Grecia  
Grecian  Empire 
Greece 

Gath-hepher  
Gath  Hepher?    (el  Meslu 
Gath-Iibnah. 
Gaulonitis  
(  la/a 

Geba 

51);  9—21 
10     11  —  3H-     10    -31-' 

Greek  Gethsemane  

C.leba,  Gaba,  Giboah  (Jel 
Gebal  (Byblos)  .  . 
Gederah  (Jediroh)  
Gederoth  

>a).  13  —  ID 
.«.)—  4C;  12—  10E 
13—31) 
4—211 
3—31;  4—  3.J 
.  .  13—  U 
.15—  3D 
.14—  <>D 
(el 
14—  5C 
.2—  5D;     4—  IK;     9— 
21;  10—  U 
11  —  5F 

Greek  and  Latin  Quarter 

11 

Hadad-rimmon  .  .  .  . 
Hadashah  

Gedor  (Kh.  Jedur)  ... 
Gennath  Gate 

Iladoram  
llaemus  Mountains  
Hagar's    Well,    see    Ain    el 
Muweileh  
Tlai,  Kh.  el  
Ilaiyan,    Kh.,    see    Ai,    llai 
Aiath  

(  lenno.saret,  Lake  
Genncsaret,      Plain     of 
Ghuweir) 

Gerar  

Gerasa 

Halhul  

(  lergesa  

.  .11—51) 

Ilalhul  (Hulhal)  . 
Ilalys,  River  
Ilamam,  Wady  el  
Hamath  

Cergeseiies?  (Kersaj  .  .  .  . 
Geri/im,  Mount  
German  Church  
(  lerinania 

.  .14—71) 
.4,  11—  3d;   2     (1C 
.  .1(5—  3G 
S—  3B 
9—  4F 
.3—51);  4—  5C 
1—51) 

Hainis,  Wady  

Geshur 

llammath  

(  leshurites 

Hammeh,    el,    see     Zaj)hon 
Amatha  
Hamini,  el  
Ilammon  
Ilarod,  Well  of  (Ain  Jalud)  . 
Harosheth 

Gether 

Gethsemane  
(  le/er  

.  .10—  f.B 
4—  211;  9—311 
.    ,13—  4  L 
of 
.  14—  5C 
.  13—  6  J 
4  —  311  '   10  —  3F 

Ghar,  Wady  el  
Ghuweir,    el;     see    Plain 
Gennesaret  
Ghuweir,  Wad}'  
Gibbethon 

Hasbeiyah  
Hattin 

Ilauran  

Gibeah 

4    11—311  and  3J 

Hausan  

Gibeah  (Jcba)    . 

.13—  III 
.13—  ID 
3,  4,  9,  10,  11-  311 
.  13—  3D 
.  .  15—  5E 
.11—  4E 
10,     11—  4F;      2—  OB" 

Havilah  
Havoth  Jair  
Ha/ar-enan  
llazeroth  
Hazim,  Wady  el             
Hazor  

Gibeah  (Jebia)  
Gibeon  
Gibeon  (el  Jib)  . 
(  lihon  

(  lilboa 

Gilboa,  Mount 

Hazor  (Kh.  Ha/zur)  
Hazzur,  Kh.,  see  Hazor  
Hebron  

Gilead 

4—  3F;  9—  3(1 
4,    10  —  5F;        3—  5G; 

9  —  4G 

3534 


IXDKX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  THE  BIBLE 


Hebron,  see  Kiriath-arba ... 2 — (ID;     4 — 3J;     13 — 

2L 

Holam? 9— OB 

Helbon 9—  4K;   10 — GA 

Heliopolis 9 — 4E 

Helkath 4— 3D 

Hellespont 6 — 2B 

Heraclea 12 — S.\ 

Hennon,  Mount ..  .4,   10,   11 — 5B;    9 — 4F 

Hcrodium.  .  .  1 1 — 3J 

Herodiutn     (Jebel     Fureidis 

or  Frank  Mountain) 13 — 311 

Herod's  (late 10 — 4A 

Herod's  Monument 15 — 2K 

Herod's  Palace 15 — 3D 

Herod's  Tombs 10 — 2E 

Heshbon 3,  4,   10    11—511;    2— 

7C;  9— 4 II 

Hezekiah,  Tool  of 10— 3C 

Ile/ron .4 — 2M 

Ilibornia X — 1A 

Hierapolis 12 — 7C 

Hill  Country .11 — 3K 

Hindi,  Wady  abu 13 — 4F 

Hinnom i;j — yp 

Hinnom,  Valley  of 15  --  2E  and  2F 

Hippicus 15— 3D 

Hippos  (Susiyeh) 14 — 7E 

Hispania  (Spain) 8 — 1C 

Hivite<  .   2— OB;  9— 4F 

Hiznieh,  see  Azmaveth 13 — 4D 

Holy    Sepulchre,    Church    of 

the 1(5— 3C 

Ilonianoea ?  (("111111  Junieh).14 — 5G 
Ilor?,  Mount  .  .  .  .  .9 — 4E 

Hor?,      Mount,      see     Jebel 

Xebi  Harun 2 — OF 

Ilor,   Mount,  see  Jebel  Ma- 

derali 2 — OF 

Horeb 2 — 4.J 

Horinah 3 — H,-  9 31 

Hormah  ?  (Zephath) .  .         .  A— 3M 
Hot  Spring.  .  .  .  .  14— ON 

Hukkok.  .  .  .  .4 — 41) 

Hukkok  (Yakuk)..  ..14— 4B 

1 1  "I  .  .1—  01) 

Hulhal,  see  Halhul 13— IK 

Husasah,  Wady 13— 5 L  and  4K 

I 

Iblearn.  .  .  .  .  ,  .4— 4E;   11— 3E 

Ibleani  or  Bileam 3 — 3F 

Il)leain  (Yebla) 14— 4J 

Ibn,  Kh 3— IB 

Ibn  es  Seba 3 — IB 

Iconium 12 — SC 

Ijon.  .  4,  10— 4B;    9— 4F 

Iksal,  see  Chesulloth 14— 1G 

Illyriuum 8— 3C;  12— 3A 

India 0,  7— 7C 

Indus  River 6,  7 — GC 

IpsiLs .  .7— 2B 


Irbid,  see  Arbela ... 

Iron 

Irpeel?  (Ra-fal). 

Israel 

Israel,  Mountains  of .  . 
Israelites,  Journey  of. 
Issachar . 

Issus 

Italia • 

Italy 

Iturea.  . 


.  14— 4D 

.4— 4C 

.  13— 3D 

.  10— 4E 

.11— 4F 

.3— 5K 

.  4— 4E 

.7— 3B;  12— 10D 

.8— 3C 

.  12— 2  B 

.11— 6C 


Jabbok,  see  Wady  Zerka.    .    11 — 5G 

Jabbok  River 2 — 7C;     3 — 4G;     4 

5G 

Jabbul 14 — 5K 

Jabes,  Wady .  .  11 — 5K 

Jabesh-gilead..  .  4,     10— 5F;        3— 4F; 

9— 4G 
Jubneel.  4— 2H  and   4E;     11— 

4C 
Jabneel  ?  (Yemrna) .  .  .  .  14 — 4( ', 

Jabneh.  .  .  .10—211 

Jacob's  Well.  .  11-    ;i( ; 

Jaffa  Gate.  .  .  10  — 3C 

Jahaz?..  .4—511    and    5K;     3— 

5J 

Jala,  Kh.,  see  Giloh.  .  13— U 

Jainnia.  .  ....  11 — 211 

Janoah.  ...  .  10— 4 B 

Janohah.  .  .  .4 — 4G 

Janiun.  .  .  .  .  .4 — 3J 

Januin  (Beni  Naini) .  .          .  .13 — 2L 

Japhia  .  .  .  .  4— 3E 

Jarkon,  Wady.  ...  11 — 211 

Jarinuk  River  .  .  1 1 — 5E 

Jarmuth.  .3—21;    4— 3F  and  2J; 

10—311 
Jattir.  .  .  .4— 3K 

Javan .  1— 4D 

Ja/er .  .3,  4,  11—511 

Jeba,      see      Geba,      Gaba, 

Gibeah.  ...  .  .  13— 4D 

Jeba,  see  Gibeah.  .  .  13 — 1H 

Jebel  'Araif  el-Xakah 2— 4G 

Jebel    Baten    el    Hawa,    see 

Mount  of  Offense 10— GE 

Jebel  Duhy 14—211 

Jebel  el-Megrah 2— 5G 

Jebel    et    Tor,     see    Mount 

Tabor .  .  .  .  1 4— 3G 

Jebel  et  Tur,  see  Mount  of 

Olives .  .15,  10— 7C 

Jebel     Fureidis,     see     Hero- 

dium  (Frank  Mountain)  .  .  13 — 3H 

Jebel  Kuruntul 13 — OD 

Jebel       Maderah       (Mount 

Hor) 2— 6F 

Jebel   Nebi    Harun    (Mount 

Hor?) 2— OF 

Jebel  Shihan.  .  .  .11— 5K 


1XDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LAXDS  OK  THE   BIBLE 


1-1      21) 

Judah 

1     3.1;    10     2.1 
3     3J 
9     31 
13     3B 
1,  1  1     -3K 

1  3     2(  1 
2     -IK 
2     OK 
1  1      .-)!•' 
13   -2L 
2     (ill 
2  -IK 
2      111 
14—11) 
1.  11    -3C 

i    2<  ; 
11—  .')!•; 

14     5J 

.)cl)i;i   see  (  libeah 

.  .  K5    -11) 

Judah,  Mountains  of.  . 
Judah,  Wilderness  of. 
Jufna,  see  (lophna  Ophnl 
Juttah  

K 

Kabu,  el  
Kadesli,  see  Am  Kadeis    . 
Kadesh  '.',  see  Ain  el  Weibeh 
Kadish,  .see  Kedesli  
Kady,  Wady  el.  . 
Kala  'at  el-'Akabah  . 
Kala  'at  el  'Ansli  
Kala  'at  en  Xaklil  
Kana,  Kh.,  see  Cana  
Kanah 

Jehus  
Jebus,  see  Jcnisiilcin 
Jebusites  
Jedireh,  sec  (  lederah 
Jedur,  Kit.,  sec  (  iedor 
Jefat,     Kh.,    see    .Ii|)ht 
Jotapata  
Jehoshapliat,  Valley  of  . 
Jehud.  . 
Jcntih                       .    .  . 

.3—31 
.  .1   -311 
.   2     OC 
..13  -3D 
.13  -1J 
hah? 
11   -ID 
..13      IK 
.  .4—  2G 
.  .1  -7K 

Jeradat,  Wady  el    . 
Jerafeh,  Wady  el    . 
Jcnish 

..13     3L 
..2     OK 

.  .3  -r>K 

Jeremiah's  Grotto  .... 
Jerl'an,  Wady  

1C.      1A 
..13     :>H 
3,  l    10,  ll  —  Hi;  2  - 

Kanah,  Brook  

OC;  9—  311 
13     71) 

Karnaim              

Kaukab  el  Ilawa 

Jeruel,  Wilderness  <>l  '  .  . 
Jerusalem 

.  .10  --3J;  13—  IK 
9,      10,      11—  3H;      o, 

Kedesh 

10,  11—  4C;    9—  3K 
14—  5  F 
3,  4—  4C 
10—411;    11—  3  J 
13—  IK 

13—  4  B 
14—  3  B 
13—  4  K 
14—  7E 
.  14—  3  K 
f 
14—  2K 
13—  5  A 

Kedcsh  (Kadish)  
Kedcsh-napht  ah 

Jerusalem  (Kl  Kudsj 

0-3C;   12—10(1 
13  -3K 

Kedron,  Brook  
Kefireh,  sec1  Che])hij-ali  .... 
Kc'l'r  Ana,  sec  Chephar-ham 
mon-ai  ?  
Kcfr  Anan  
Kefr  et  Tor,  sec  Bethpha^e'. 
Kefr  Harib        

Jerusalem  (Jebus) 

.  .4—311 
.  .  ..2     HI) 
.  .10  -3(5 

1    --3K 

Jerusalem,  sec1  Salem.  . 
Jeshanah   
Jeshimon 

Jessarah   Wadv 

13—  7  K 

Jethlali  (Beit  Tul) 

13—  IE 

Jewish  Cemetery 

10—  4K  and  til) 

Kefr  Kama                       .  .  . 

Jewish  Colony  

.  .  .  .16—  2E  and  3  A 
1  0  —  1  1  ) 

Kefr    Kenna,    sec    Cana    o 
Galilee  

10-    41) 

Kefr  Malik                     .  .    . 

4       11—  3K;      4—  3K; 

Kefr  Misr  

11—311 
.14—  3  K 

Je/reel  (Zerin)  
Je/reel,    Valley    of    (X 
Jalud) 

9—3(1;  10—  IK 
.  .  .  .14—  IK 
ahr 
14—  3  K 

Kefr  Sabt      

Keilah          

.4—  2J;  11—  3  J 

Kcnath                        

.9—  .-)(!;   10—  7  D 

Keniset  er-Rawat  

.13—  3G 
11—  5L 

.14—  OK 
.  14—  r>B 
.11—  5L 
.4—  3K;  10—  7E 
.14—71) 
.3—1  A 

Jib,  el,  see  Gibeon  .... 
Jiliar   Wady  el 

13     3D 

Kerak  Kir-moab           

.  .13—  3  K 

Kcrak,  see  Tarichaea  
Keruzeh,  see  Chora/in  
Kerek    Brook              

Jiphthah?,     Jotapata 
JefatJ  
Jisr  el  Mujamiyeh.  .  .  . 
Jobab 

(Kh. 
14—11) 
.14—  SI  I 
1—  7K 

Kerioth                

Kersa,  see  Gergesenes?.  .  .  . 
Kiblem,  Wacly  el  

4  -5G 

fokneam 

3,  4,  10—31'; 

Kidron,  Brook  

.3—41 

Joktan                    

1—  OK 

Kidron    or    Cedron,    Brook 
(Wady  en  Xar)  13—  5G 

loktheel 

4    10—211 

3,  4,  10,  11—2(1;    2— 

Kidron,  Valley  of  the  

.  16—  5D 

Jordan  liiver 

f>C;     9—  311;     12— 
10G 
3,  4,   10,  11—  4K;    2— 

Kir                   

.2—  7E 

Kiriathaim  
Kiriath-arba  (Hebron)  .... 
Kiriath-jearim              

.3—51;  4—  4J 
.2—01);  4—  3J 
.3—31;  4—311 

7B;    3—  4C;    4—  f>B; 
9-  311;        12—  KKJ; 
14—  OA  and  OK 
11—31) 

Kiriath-sephar  
Kirjath?  (Kuryet  et  Enab) 
Kir-moab  

.4—  2K 

.  13—21-: 

.3—  4K;      4—  4L;     9 

Jubb  Yusef    Kh 

14—  r>B 

Kishon,  Brook  

41;  10—  .">K 
.3—  3E;    4—  3D;     11 

-t    -      ;}(j-    (}  —  2C'    S  — 

Judaea.  Wilderness  of. 

r>I);     11—  3J;     12— 
10G 
.  .4—  4K 

Kithlish                    

3E 

.4—  2J 

Kitron  

3,  4—31) 

3536 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  THE  BIBLE 


Kittim 1— 5D;  9— 1C 

Khamaseh,  Kh.  cl 13 — 1G 

Khun  ct  Tujjar 14 — 3F 

Klmeizir 14 — 7H 

Khudr,  cl 13 — 2G 

Khulil,  cl,  see  Hebron,  Kir- 

iath-arha 13 — 2L 

Khurbetha 3 — IB 

Khurbct-hcllabi 3 — 2A 

Khureitun,  Kh.  el 13 — 4J 

Kolt,  Wady 1 1— 4H 

Kubar 13 — 2A 

Kubeibeh,  el 13 — 2D 

Kuds,  el,  see  Jerusalem 13— 3F 

Kueiziba,  Kh.,  see  Chozeba.  13— 2K 
Kulanieh,  see  Emmaus  ?. .  .  .  13 — 2E 
Kulat  el  Hosn,  see  Gamala  ?  14— 7E 

Kumran,  Kh 13 — 7F 

Kumran,  Wady 13 — 7F 

Kurm  Atrad,  Kh 13 — OF 

Kurn  Ilattin 14 — 4E 

Kuryet    et   Enab,    see    Kir- 

jath? 13—21-] 

Kustul .  .13—21-] 

L 

Lachish 3,  4,  10,  11—2,1;   <J— 31 

Lahinan 4 — 2J 

Laish,  seo  Dan 3 — 4B;  4 — 5B 

Laodicea 12 — 7C 

Lasea 12— 5E 

Lasharon,  see  Sharon 11 — 2G 

Lebanon,  Mount 4,  10,  11 — 4A;    9 4E 

Lebonah 10,  1 1— 3G 

Lehabini 1 — 4D 

Leontes  River 4,  10,  11— 4B;    9— 4E 

Libnah 3,  1 1—21;  9—31 

Libya S — IE;  1 2— 5H 

Libyan  Desert 1 — 41-] 

Lifta 13— 3E 

Little  Hermon 11— 3E 

Lod 10— 2G 

Lower  Beth-horon 4,   K) — 3H;    13 1C 

Loz,  Kh.  cl 13 — IF 

Lubieh 14 — 3E 

Lubim 1 — 4E 

Lud  .  1— 3D  and  5D 

Ludim 1— 3D 

Luz 4— 4B 

Lycia 12— 7D 

Lydda 4,  1 1— 211 

Lydia 6,  7— 2B 

Lystra 12 — 8D 

M 

Maachah 9 — OF 

Maachathites 4 — 5C 

Maad 14— GJ 

Maarath 4 — 3,7 

Macedonia 7 — 2B1     8 1C'     12 • 

4B 
Machaerus .  .11 — f)J 


Madai i 7]) 

Madhcr 14 4G 

Madin,  sec  Madon  ? 14 — 4D 

Madon  ?  (Madin) 14— 4D 

Magdala 11— 4D 

Magdala  (Mejdel) 14— 4D 

Magog 1_7C 

Mahanaim 3(  4;   10 /jp.    o 7B- 

9— 4G 

Mahometan  Quarter 10 — 4B 

Makht    Abarah,    sec    Beth- 

barah,  Bcthabara? 14— 5  K 

Makkedah 3—21;  4— 2IT;  11— 2 J 

Maktul,  Wady 14 — 4B 

Malhah,  see  Manahath 13— 3F 

Malick,  Wady  cl 13— GC 

Malih,  Wady  el 11— 4F 

Malta,  see  Melita 12— ID 

Mature,  Plain  of 13 — IL 

Manahath  (Malhah) 13— 3F 

Manasseh 4— 3F  and  GD 

Mansurah,  el 14 — 3]} 

Maon 4;  10,  11— 3 K 

Marah  (Wells  of  Moses)   .  .  .2— 2G 

Mare  Atlanticum S — IB 

Mare  Caspium S — GB;  7 — IB 

Mare  Internum S — 4D 

Mar  Elias 13 — 3G 

Mareshah 10,  11 — 2J 

Mariaiuue  Tower 15 — 3C 

Marrina,  Kh.,  sec  Meronoth  13—1,1 

Mar  Saba 13— 5G 

Masada 1 1 — 4K 

Mash 1— GD 

Maspha,      Mizpah      (Neby 

Samwil) 13— 2D 

Mauritania S — ID 

Mazar,  el 14 — 2M 

Medeba 4,  11— 5 J;   3—51;   9— 

411;  10—511 

Media 6,  7— 4C;  5— 5B 

Medineh,  Wady 13— 4D 

Mediterranean  Sea,  see  Great 

Sea..  4,      10— 2D;      2— 4C; 

3— IE;    11—  2E;    12 
-4F 

Megiddo 3,  4,  10,  11— 3E;    9— 

3G 

Mejdel,  sec  Magdala 14 — 4D 

Melita  (Malta) 12— ID 

Memphis 1— 5E;  5— 3C;  G— 2C 

Menaa,  Kh 3 — IB 

Mendah 14— 7K 

Mcnka,  Wady  el 13— 4 J 

Merom,  Waters  of 4,  10— 5C;    2— 7A;    3 

-4C 
Meronoth  (Kh.  Marrina)..  .  13— U 

Merv 7— GB 

Mesadiyeh,  el 14— GC 

Mesha 1— GE 

Meshash,  Wady 13— 5J 

Meshech .  .  1 — GC 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  THE  BIBLE 


Meshed,  el,  sec  Gath  Heph- 
cr? 14— IF 

Mesopotamia 5 — 4H;  8 — (>I) 

Messina 12 — 2C 

Mczeirat  el  Kibliych 13—215 

Michmash 4—311 

Michmash  (Mukhmas) 13 — 4C 

Middin 4— 3J 

Midian 2— GI 

Midianitcs 3— GJ;  9— GG 

Migdal-gad 4— U 

Migdol 2— IF 

Migdol,  el 4 — 1C 

Mikyal,  Kb.  el 14—711 

Miletus 12— GD 

Minieh,     Kh.,     sec     Caper- 
naum   14 — 5C 

Miristan 1 G — 3C 

Mishal 4— 3D 

Mitylene 12— GC 

Mizpah 4— 311 

Mizpch 4— 5F;   10—311;   11— 

GE 

Mizraim 1— 5E;  2— 1G 

Moal) 3,  4,  10,  11— 5K;    2— 

7E;  9-41 

Moeotis G— 3A 

Moesia 8— 4C;  12— 5A 

Mojib,    Wady   el,    or   River 

Arnon 11 — .5K 

Moladah 4,   10,   11— 3L;    9—31 

Moriah 10—  5C 

Mosque 1G — 5C 

Mount  Zion  Street 16— 3D 

Mozah  (Kh.  Beit  Mizza).   .  .13— 2E 

Muallak,  Wady  el 13— 5 K 

Mughar,  el 14— 3B 

Mujcdda,  el 14— 4N 

Mukelik,  Wady 13— 6F 

Mukes,  sec  Gadara 14 — 711 

Mukhmas,  see  Michmash.  .  .  13 — 4C 

Mukhraha 14— 7K 

Mukta  el  Juss,  Wady 13— 5 K 

Muntar,  el 13— 5G 

Murussus,  Kh.  el 13— 5F;  14— 4 K 

Musheirfi,  el 14 — 7J 

Musurr,  Wady 13—211 

Myra 12— 8D 

Mysia G,  7— 2B;    12— GB 

N 

Naarath 4— 4H 

Nahalal 3— 3E 

Nahallal? 4— 3E 

Nahallal?  (Ain  Mahil) 14— 2F 

Nahr   Jalud,    see   Valley   of 

Jezreel 14— 3K 

Nain 11— 4E 

Nain  (Xein) 14—211 

Naphtali 4— 4C 

Naphtuhim 1 — 4E 

Naples.  .  .  .  .12— IB 


Nar,    Wady   en,    see   Brook 

Kidron  or  Cedron 13 — oG 

Nasirah,  en,  see  Nazareth. .  .  14 — 1G 
Naurah,  en,  see  Anaharalh?  14 — 3.1 

Nazareth 11— 3E;  12— 10F 

Nazareth  (en  Nasirah) 1  1 — 1G 

Neapolis 12  — .">B 

Nebo,  Mount 3,  4,  10,  1 1   -5H;    2— 

71);  9—411 
Neby  Musa.  .  .  .  .13—  7E 

Neby  Sain .  .  .14— IF 

Neby  Sarmvil,   see   Maspha, 

Mizpah.  .  .  .  .  .13— 2 D 

Negeb,  The 4— 2L 

Neiel 4— 3D 

Nein,  see  Nain 14 — 211 

Nekeb " 4—41'] 

New  Bazaar 10— 2C 

New  Greek  Convent 1G— 3B 

Nezib 4— 2J;  11—  3J 

Nicomedia 12 — 7B 

Nicopolis 12 — 4C 

Nile,  Mouth  of  the 2— ID 

Nile  River 5— 3D 

Nimrin 14— 3D 

Nineveh 1— GD;  5— 4B 

Nobah,  see  Kenath 9 — 4G 

Noricum 8 — 3B 

Northern  Campaign 3 — 4F 

Numidia 8— 2D 

O 

Obal 1— GF 

Offense,     Mount     of     (Jebel 

Baten  el  Hawa) 1G— 010 

Old  Pool 16— 4F 

Olives,  Mount  of 13— 4F;  11      311 

Olives,   Mount  of   (Jebel  et 

Tur) 15,  1G— 7C 

Omar's  Mosque 1G — 3C 

Ono 4,  10— 2G 

Ophel 1C— 4D 

Ophir? 1— GF;  5 — IE 

Ophrah 4,  10— 3G 

( )phrah    Ephraim    (el    Tai- 

yibeh) 13— oB 

Orontes  River 9 — 4C 

Osh  el  Ghurab  (Rock  Oreb  ?)  13— 7C 
Oxus  River .  .  .  .  6— GB ;  7— 5B 


Palmyra,  see  Tadmor 9 — GD 

Pamphylia 12— 8D 

Pamphylia,  Sea  of 12— SD 

Pannonia 8 — 4B 

Paphlagonia G— 2B;  7— 3B;  12—  9 A 

Paphos 12— 9E 

Parah 13— 5D 

Paran,  see  Desert  of  Et-Tih. .  2— 411 

Paran,  Wilderness  of 9 — 1 L 

Parthia G,  7— 5C;  8— GC 

Patara.  .  .  .12— 7  D 


3f>3S 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  TILE  LANDS  OF  TILE  BIBLE 


Pathrusim 1 — 5E 

Patmos 12 — 61) 

Pella 11— 4F 

Pelusium 2 — 2E 

Pelusium,  Bay  of 2 — 2E 

Penucl? 4,  10,  11— 4G 

Peraca 11—511 

Perga 12— SD 

Pcrpmos 12—  6C 

Perizzites 2— 6C 

Persepolis 6,  7— 5C 

Persia 6,  7— 5C 

Persian  Empire 6 

Persian  Gulf 1 — 7E;  6 — 4D 

Pessinus 12 — SC 

Pctra 2— 7F 

Pharpar  River 4,  10,  11— <5B;  9— 4F 

Phasaelus 15 — 2C 

Phasis  River 6 — 4B 

Phenice 7 — 3C 

Phiala,  Lake 11— 5C 

Philadelphia 12— 7C 

Philippi 12— 5B 

Philistia 4— 1J 

Philistim 1— 5E 

Philistines 2—51);  3 — 2H;  9 21 

Phoenicia 9— 4E;    11— 3C;    12  — 

10F 

Phoenix 12 — 5E 

Phrygia (i,  7— 2B;  12— 7C 

Plait 1— IE 

Pi-hahiroth 2 — 1G 

Pilgrim   Road   to    Mecca   or 

Derb  el  Ilajj 2— 411;  11— OK 

Pillars  of  Hercules S— 1C 

Pirathon 4 — 3F 

Pisgah,  Mount 4— 4J 

Pisidia 12 — SD 

Pithom 2— IF 

Plain,  Sea  of  the.  .  .  .3 — 41 

Pontus i),  7— 3B;    8— 5C;    12 

— 9A 

Pontus  Euxinus 6,  7 — 3A;  8 — 5C 

Pontus  Galatieus 12— 9B 

Protestant  School 16— 3E 

Propontis 12 — 7B 

Pteria 5— 3B 

Ptolemais 12 — 10F 

Ptolemais  (Acco) 11 — 3D 

Puteoli 12 — IB 

R 

Raamah 1 — 7E 

Raamses  ? 2 — IF 

Kabbah 3— 5H;  4—2,1 

Rabbath-ammon 4,  10,  11— 5H;  9— 4H 

Rabbath-moab,  see  Ar 11— 5K 

Rabbith 4 — 3F 

Rachael's  Tomb 13 — 3G 

Ra-fal,  see  Irpeel  ? 13— 3D 

Rakkath 4 — 4D 

Rakkon .  .  4 — 2G 


Ramah  ..................  4,  10,  11—311  and  4D 

Ramah  (er  Rain)  ..........  13  —  3D 

Ramah  (Ranieh)  ..........  14  —  2A 

Ram  Allah  ...............  13  —  3C 

Rarneh,  see  Ramah  ........  14  —  2A 

Ram,  or,  see  Ramah  .......  13  —  3D 

Ramleh  ..................  11  _  2H 

Ramoth-gilead  ...........  3,  4,  10,   11—  5G;  9— 

411 
Ramoth-mizpeh  ...........  4  —  5E 

Raphia,  see  Tell  Refah  .....  2—  4E 

Ras  Mersid  ...............  13  —  GM 

Ras  es  Shukf  .............  13  —  GM 


Sea 


2—  5L;  7—  3D;  9 
12—  9H 

12  —  91) 
12  —  10B 
9  —  5E 

4  _  1L 


3L; 


Antiochi 

Regnum  Polemonis 
Rehob 
Rohoboth  ................  1  —  5D; 

Reineh,  or  ................  14  —  1  1-1 

Rephaim,  Valley  of  ........  13  —  3F 

Rephidim  ................  2  —  4J 

Rcsen  ....................  1—  01) 

Reuben  ..................  4  —  4J 

Rezeph  ..................  9—  7C 

Rhaetia  ..................  S  —  3B 

Rhenium  .................  12  —  2C 

Rhodes  ..................  12  —  7E 

Riblah  ...................  9—  5D;  11—  5B 

Rinunon  ...............  4—  3D  and  311;     10— 

4D;  11—  2  K 
Rimmon      Dimnah      (Rum- 

maneh)  ................  14  —  IE 

Riphath  ..................  1  —  4C 

Rock  Oroh  ?  ((  )sli  el  Ghurab)  13—  7C 
Rock  Rimmon  (Hummon).  .13  —  5B 
Roma  (Kh.  Rumah)  .......  14  —  IE 

Roman  Empire  ...........  S 

Roman  Road  .............  11  —  5K 

Rome  ....................  s  —  3C;  12  —  1A 

Ruad  1  ...................  9  —  4D 

Rumah,  Kh.,  see  Roma.  .  .  .14  —  II1] 

Rummaneh,     see     Rimmon 

Dimnah  ................  14  —  IE 

Rummaneh,  Wady  ........  14  —  21'] 

Rummon,    see    Rock    Rim- 

mon ...................  13  —  5B 

Russian  Hospice  ..........  16  —  1A 

Russian  Mission.  .  .  .16  —  IB 


Sabeans 5— 3E  and  4E 

Sabtar 1 — OF 

Sabteca 1 — 6G 

Safa 13— III 

Sahel    el    Ahma,    see    Bet- 

saanim 14 — 4F 

Sahel  el  Buttauf,  see  Plain 

of  Asoehis 14—21) 

Sakhni,  Kh.  es 14 — 6J 

Salamis 12 — 9E 

Salcah .  .  9— 5G 


IXDEX  TO  Till':  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  Tin-]  BIBLE 


Salem  (Jerusalem) 2 — GD 

Salim 11  -4F 

Salmona,  Capo 12 — GE 

Salt  Soa  (Dead  Soa) 11— 4K;    2— 7D; 

4,1;  9—31 
Samaria 6,  7— 3C;    10,  11 

8—  f>D;    9—  31  I 

— 10G 

Samieh,  Wady 13— r>A 

Sanios 12— GD 

Sainrah 14 — OF 

Sapliir 11— U 

Sardinia $ — 3C 

Sardis 12— 7C 

Saropta 11— 3B 

Saris 13— IE 

Sarmatia S — oA 

Sarona 14 — 4F 

Schaib,  Wady 11—411 

Scythia 1— SC;      (5— 4A; 

6B 

Srythopolis 11— 4E;   14— 4  M 

Sea  of  Galilee,  sec  Lake  Ti- 
berias  11— 4D 

Sea  of  the  Plain 4— 4K;  10-4,1 

Seba 1— 5F;  f>— 3E 

Soelm?  (Kh.  Smveikeh) 13— 3C 

Second  Wall If,— 3C 

Seffnrieh,  see  Sopphoris 14 — IE 

Seir,  Mount 2— 7F;  9—3,1 

Seiyadeh 14 — 5F 

Sola? 9— 3J 

Seleueia 7 — 3B   and   4C; 

91)  and  10D 

Soli,  AVady 11—411 

Selwad 13— 4A 

Semakh 14— GG 

Seinakh,  Wady  es 14 — 7D 

Sephar  ?,  Mount 1 — 7F 

Sopphoris 11 — 3E 

Sopphoris  (Seffurieh) 14 — IE 

Seveneh G— 2D 

Shaalabbin 4,  10—311 

Shafal 13— 3E 

Shalom 1 1— 4F 

Shalim 2— GC;  4— 3G 

Shariat     ol-Menadrieh,     see 

River  Yannuk 14 — GG 

Sharon  (Lasharon) 11 — 2G 

Sharon,  Plain  of 3,  4,  10,  11— 2F 

Sheba 1 — GE    and    OF; 

4E  and  f>C 
Shoehorn 3,  4,  10,  1 1  -3G; 

GC;  9—311 

Shehab,  Wady  csh 3— 2B 

Shclcph 1—  OF 

Shemesh,  En  (Ain  Haud) .  .  .  13— 4F 

Shomsin,  Kh 14— f)G 

Shcphelah 4— 2J 

Shcrafat 13— 3F 

Sherrar,  Wady  esh 14—311 

Shihon  (Ain  Sha'in?) 14— 2F 


4— 


8— 


12— 


Shiloh. 


Shimron 3,  4     3E 

Shinar 1      GI) 

Sliittiin 11       HI 

Shkoiyif 11     7C 

Sliukf,  Wady  esli 13  -G.M 

Shunem 4,  10,    11       IE;  '.)  -3G 

Shunein  (Solanij 1  1 — 2.J 

Shushan  (Susa) f>  ••  f)C;  G  -  1C 

Shut  i  a,  see  Beth-shit  tali   ...  1  1   -3K 

Siair,  see  Zior 13---2K 

Sicilia ,S— 3C 

Sicily 12 -1C 

Sidon 4,  10,  11     4A;    1  -fjD; 

9     3F;   12  -10F 

Sidonians 4 — IB 

Sidr,  Wady  es 11     3.1 

Sikkeh,  Wady  os 13— IF 

Siklab,  Wady 14— GM 

Siloam,  Pool  of 15,  16  -4V 

Siloam,  Village  of 1G — .">E 

Simeon 4 — 2L 

Sin,  Wilderness  of 2— 3.J 

Sinai,  Mount 2— 4.J 

Sinai,  Wilderness  of 2 — LI 

Single  Gate If)— f>I) 

Sinim? 1—121) 

Sinnabris  (Sinn  on  Xabrah) .  14 — ;">F 
Sinn  en  Xabrah,  sec  Sinna- 
bris  14— oF 

Sinope G— 3B;   12— 9A 

Sinus  Persicus 7 — ">D 

Sirah  Well 13— 1L 

SirBahir 13— 3G 

Sirbonis,  Lake 2— -310 

Sirin 14— f)II 

Smyrna 12 — GC 

Soba 13    -2F 

Socoh 4—2,1   and    3K ;     10— 

3.1 

Sogdiana G,  7 — GB 

Solam,  sec  Shunem 14 — 2.J 

Sorek,  Brook 11— I.I 

Southern  Campaign 3 — 21 

Spain,  sec  Hispania S — 1C 

St.  Paul's  Bay 12— ID 

St.  Stephen's  Gate 1G— f>B 

Succoth? 4,   10   11— 4F;    2— IF 

and  7C;  9 --4 1 1 

Suez 2— 2G 

Suez,  Gulf  of 2—2,1 

Suffa 3— 1A 

Sukhnin 14— 1C 

Sukiyeh,  Wady  es 13— 4M 

Sumrah,  Kh.  cs 13 — GG 

Surar,  AVady 13— 2F 

Susa,  see  Shushan 5 — f)C:  G — 1C 

Susiana G,  7 — 4C 

Susiych,  see  Hippos 14 — 7E 

Smveikeh,  see  Seelui  ? 13 — 3C 

Suweinit,  AVady 13 — 5D 


3540 


INDEX  TO  THE  ATLAS  OF  THE  LANDS  OF  THE  BIBLE 


Sychar 11— 3F 

Syracuse.  .  8— 3D;  12— 2D 

gyria-  •  6,  7— 3C;  5— 3B;  8- 

5D;  12— 10E 

Syria  or  Aram 9 — GD 

Syrian  Desert  ....  .  .9 — GF 


Taanach.  .  3>  4)  1Q— 3E;    9— 3G 

TaanatJi 4 4Q 

Taba 2 — 611 

Tabghah,  et 14 — ,5Q 

Tabor,  Mount 2 — GB;    4 4E-     11 • 

3E 

Tabor,  Mount  (Jebel  et  Tor)  14— 3G 

Tadmor  (Palmyra) 9 — GD 

Tahpanhes 2 — IE 

Taiyibeh,  et 14— 3 J 

Taiyibeh,    et,    see    Ophrah 

Ephraim 13— oB 

Tamireh,  Wady 13 — 4H 

Tanitic 2 2E 

Tappuah 11— 4G 

Tarentuin 12 — 3B 

Tarentum  Gulf 12 — 3B 

Tariehaea?  (Kerak) 14— 6F 

Tarsessus 8 — 1C 

Tarshish 1 — 2C 

Tarsus 12 9D 

Taurus  Mountains 12 — 9D 

Tavium 12 9B 

Tckoa 4— 3J 

Tckoa  (Kh.  Tekua) 13— 3J 

Tekoa,  Wilderness  of 10—311;  13— 5,1 

Tckoah..  11— 3J 

Tekua,  Kh.,  see  Tekoa 13— 3J 

Teli  Asur,  see  Baal-hazor .  .    13—4  \ 

TcllelFul 13-3E 

Tell  el  Wawiyat 14 — ID 

Tell  cs  Sultan 13 — 7D 

Trll,  ct 13— 4C 

Tell  Ilamma 14 GN 

Tell  Hum 14 — ,5C 

Tell  Hefah  (Raphia) 2— 4E 

Tell  Zaraa 14 7,7 

Temple if,— 5C 

Temple  Area 16 — 5C 

Temple  Street 16 — 4C 

Thapsacus,  see  Tiphsah 9 — 7B 

Thebae 6 — 2D 

Thebez 4,  11— 3F 

Thessalonica 12 5B 

Third  Wall 15— 2B 

Thrace 7— 2B;  12— 6A 

Thracia 8 — 4C 

Three  Taverns 12 — 1A 

Thyatira 12— 7C 

Tiberias 11 — 4D 

Tiberias,    Lake    (Bahr    Tu- 

bariya) 14— 6E 

Tiberias,  Lake  (Sea  of  Gali- 
lee)  11— 4D 


Tiberias     Rakkalh     (Tuba- 
«ya) 14— 5E 

Tigris  River 5,  6— 4C;  8— GD 

Tinmath 4,  10,  11—211;   4— 3G 

Timnat  h-serah 4 3G 

Tiphsah  (Thapsacus) 9 — 7B 

Tipsah 4— 3G;  10— 3F 

Tiras..  i_5c 

Tiroh,  et 13— 2D 

Tirz:lh-  •  3,  4,  10,  11—  3F;    9— 

3G 

Titus,  Wall  of  Circumvalla- 

ti"11 15— 2D 

Tob,  Land  of 4 — }J.] 

Togarmah 1— 5D 

Tombs  of  the  Prophets 16 — 7D 

Toplii'l.  .  .4, 11—  4M;  2— 7E 

Toran 14 2E 

Tower  Psephinus 15 IB 

Triple  Gate 15 5D 

Tripolis 9— 4D;  12— 10E 

Tl>oas 12— GC 

Tubal..  i_,5D 

Tubania  (Ain  Tubaun) 14 — 2K 

Tubariya,  see  Tiberias  Rak- 

kath 14— 5E 

Tubk  Amriyeh 13 — (>Q 

Tuffah,  Wady  et 1 4 — 3C 

Tvrc"  -3,    4,    7,    10,    11— 3C; 

9— 3F;    12— 10F;    8 
— 5D 
Tyropoeon  Valley 15 — 3B 

U 

Ulai  River G — 1C 

I'mmah 4— 3C 

I'nim      Junieli,      see      Ho- 

monoea  ? 1 4 -^ 

Finm  Taba,  Kh 13  —3G 

Upper  Beth-horon 3— 2B;      4— 311-       13 

—1C 

Upper  City 15— 3E 

Upper  Conduit 16 — 2C 

Upper  Pool  of  Gihon 16 — 1C 

Urtas,  see  Etam 13 — 3H 

1—  5E 

Uzal 1— 6F 

V 

Valley  of  Kidron 15 — 5D 

Virgin's  Fount 16 — 5E 

W 

Wakkas 14 — 7]? 

War,  Wady  el 13— 4H 

Warmuk  River 3 — 5E 

Water  Gate 15— 5E 

Welejeh,  el 13 — 2G 

Women's  Tower.  ...  .  .  15 — 3 A 


Yakuk,  see  Hukkok 14 — 4B 

Yarmuk  River 4— 5E;  10— 5D 


INDEX  TO  TIIK  ATLAS  OF  THE  LAXIXS  OF  THE  BIBLK 


3r>4i 


Yarinuk   River    (Shariat   el- 

Menadrieh) 1  -I—  6Cf 

Yebla,  see  Ibleam 14— 4 J 

Yebrud 13-4A 

Yemma,  see  Jalmecl 14 — 4G 

Yukin,  Kh.  .  .  .  i:{— 2M 


Zanoah 4— 2J 

Zaphon 4—  4E 

Zaphon    Auiatlia    (el    llain- 

nu-h 14 — 7G 

Zarephath 4—  3B;  10— 3  A 

Zaretan 11    -4F 

Zarthan? 10— 4Cr 

Z(>b<la ....14  -7K 

Zchulun ..4,11     :;i) 

/••phalli,  sccHnni-ah? 1  -3.M 

Zephalhah,  Wady 11— 2J 

Zci-?..  .  .14— 5E 


Zoml,  Brook . 


2 --7K;  .'}  -4K;  4 — 1L 

1 1      r>M 

Zcmla? 13-:JIJ 

Zcrin,  K(H;  Jc/n-cl 11-1  K 

Zcrka  Maan,  \\'ady 11  -o.J 

Zcrkji,  Wady,  or  Jabbok    .  .  .11  -5C! 

Ziddim ..4-11) 

ZikbiK? ...  .4— 2L;  9--:iI 

Zin,  Wilderness  of 9     -5I\ 

Zion? 1.")  — 4E;   If)     :*I) 

/ion  Gate 10-3E 

Zion,  Mount 1") — 3D 

Zior  (Hiair) 13 — 2K 

Ziph 4,  10,  11— :JK 

Zoan 2— IK 

Zoar? 11—  4L 

Zobali9  .  .9— 4E 

Zolidolh.  .  .  .15 ---oE 

Zorali 4—211;  10-  311 

Zuhluk,  Wady 14— OB 


o.  2 


SINAI 

^\  :x  i  > 

PALKSTIM: 


SHOWING    ISRAELS    JOURNEYS 
THROUGH     THE     DESERT 


'/'    //    E  G    A'     /;    A     T  S    E    A 


;i/  A  Z>!  /    71   /i    R    R  A    N  E  A    N) 


Jebvl   Aniif  •     \        <  \ 


D    E    SEPT          01 


3)  3 


Copyright,  l'J15,  by    The    Howard- Severance    Co..  Chicago.  111. 


Xo. 


I  I'I'Kli   HKTIMIOHONL 

QKhurlH.!!,:,  ^"-""  '<•'<•'•'  '••'•'• 

.hn^.Srha    •    '    X^" 


KODCRN    BETH-HORON    AND    VICINITY 


(\V\AAX 

At  the  time  of 
the  Coii(|Uest. 


EXPLANATION 


Xo.  4 


irat      M  AN,  AS  S  E,H 

Mt.EffM 


^'">:>>VT,,kth   >-,     AijaW      <;'>'••"/'          ,o  Kibe-iraerichBil^ 
Uderoth^!^1  0\         i-h/pLral,     ;       Mi^T1'';':    'M1'^ 


CAXAAN 

us  divided  among1 
THE  TWELVE  TRIBES 


Copyntlht.  1915.  ty    The    Howard-  Severance   Co..  Chicago,  III. 


No.  5 


BAJ'.YI.OXIAX 
EMP1KE 


le    Kasl    from    Greenwich 


Xo.  <; 


CopyriRht,    1»15.  by    The    Howard- Severance   Co.,  Chicago,  III. 


Xo.  10 


THE    KINGDOMS   OF 
JUDAIL  AX D  ISRAEL 


Copyright,  191.5,  by   The  Howard- Severance  Co.,  Chicago,  111. 


No.  I  1 


PALESTINE 

IN  THE  TIMES  OF 

THE  NEW  TESTAMENT 


l°^L  &V  G;beon0^.fes^&^ 


'^V-^      '°!!x~V         "" ^M^reshVh"  'Tv\&ah^-2 


.  1 2 


MISSIONARY  JOURNEYS  OF  ST.  PAUL 


EXPLANATION 

PAUL'S    FIRST    MISSIONARY    JOURNEY  A    D.  45-46 

(_. „ PAUL'S  SECOND  MISSIONARY  JOURNEY.  A    D.  50-54 

PAUL'S    THIRD   MISSIONARY   JOURNEY.  A.  D.  54-58 
.      PAUL'S    VOYAGE     TO    ROME  A.  D  60-61 

0  20          dO          60          80          tOO         I  ?0        1.10 


S.IATUTE    MILES 


L, 


I  B          Y 


Xo.  1 3 


ENVIRONS    OF 

j  EK u SALEM 


Rihlf  dJirf  Anrirnt  Names  shnu'rl  thus    It  a  III. 'I 


"    o       ^ c ;;— — 

Kleasa     j  |(|(or    Itetli-lioron     >«/' 
BeiluniaP 


0   c,-  A',,mL /JO.*- l>a.  Ga>fa.  ttibeah 


Jfb  XV"7o      \  ---Birttbula-'      Kh.Ad, 

S^  '.\clili  S,i,,:u-il  Jo?"b    _l    -^-//-^^ 


KirialhV  M,,/.ah 

'—•"—''   K'  g«-(*««i  *fv 


I  Khvdr /,!•„, t  SbAor      Q  A-,,,,s.,(  ,,../,.„,,,.„, 


Xo.  1  I 


'   "&;:B1; 

.  NAZARKTII 

'       '  !•«  Naxirah  > 


\  <».  1 5  and  1  {» 


ANCIENT 

ji:it  r  SALEM 


MOUNT 
Z  I  ON 

UPPER  CITY 


MODERN 

,1  Kit  ISA  LEM 


'"••-«'''         ,/„„,(,„,  ,/„   I 


O  R  I  A  ..H 

Ty'M 


,3^ 

'"''''  AREA,,,, 

.....  i"^'7^^!  Mo'sqne 


VICTORIA  UNIVERSITY 
LIBRARY 


OCT  2  9 


i 


tmm 


r  v 


\. 


vsvnF 


ffii 


•SOW 


HB9H 


•nn 


Will 


frdnmr 


HI 


-     '     E'^nrivm^x 

HH 


RffiS^HB^  BHBK 


