Ex  Libris 
C.  K.  OGDEN 


BLINDNESS  AND  THE  BLIND. 


BLINDNESS  AND  THE  BLIND 


OE, 


A  TREATISE   ON  THE 


SCIENCE  OF  TYPHLOLOGY, 


W.  HANKS   LEVY,  F.K.G.S., 

DIRECTOR    OF    THE   ASSOCIATION    FOE   PROMOTING    THE    GENERAL    WELFARE 
OF   THE    BLIND. 


LONDON : 
CHAPMAN   AND   HALL,   193,  PICCADILLY,  W. 

1872. 


PRINTED  BY  TATLOB   AND  CO., 
LITTLE   QCEEN  STEEET,  LINCOLN'S   INN  FIELDS. 


Betiicatcti, 


BY   PERMISSION, 


MISS    GILBERT, 


DAUGHTER   OF   THE   LATE   EIGHT  REVEREND 
THE    LORD   BISHOP   OF   CHICHESTEH. 


1C74GGO 


PBEFACE. 


THE  author  having  in  the  course  of  his  experience 
acquired  a  certain  amount  of  information,  and  arrived 
•at  some  conclusions,  which  are  considered  likely  to  be 
of  use  to  the  Blind  and  their  friends,  has  felt  it  desir- 
able to  embody  the  same  in  the  volume  now  offered  to 
the  public. 

For  the  last  twenty -five  years  it  has  been  his  con- 
stant practice  to  make  embossed  notes  of  whatever 
appeared  worthy  of  preservation,  his  motto  being  that 
a  thought  unrecorded  was  a  thought  lost ;  and  seeing 
that  during  the  whole  of  that  period  he  has  been  en- 
gaged in  matters  connected  with  the  Blind,  and  also 
that  he  has  been  himself  without  sight  from  early  in- 
fancy, it  can  easily  be  imagined  that  a  large  portion 
of  such  memoranda  would  be  on  subjects  relating  to 
loss  of  vision. 

It  was  the  original  design  to  defer  the  publication 
,of  this  work  until  comparative  absence  of  profes- 


yiii  PREFACE . 

sional  claims  might  leave  a  larger  amount  of  time 
at  the  writer's  disposal,  but  of  late  it  has  seemed 
desirable  not  to  delay  its  appearance  any  longer,  and 
the  result  has  been  the  issuing  of  the  book  now  in 
the  hands  of  the  reader. 

In  preparing  these  sheets  for  the  press,  it  has  been 
found  that  varied  engagements  are  not  necessarily 
inimical  to  literary  pursuits,  and  that  pressure  of 
business  possesses  benefits  as  well  as  disadvantages, 
even  for  the  lover  of  books. 

There  are,  however,  many  subjects  on  which  the 
author  could  have  desired  to  dwell  more  fully,  but 
which  for  want  of  time  must  be  reserved  for  another 
volume,  should  circumstances  permit  the  accomplish- 
ment of  such  a  task. 

MEADOW  HOUSE,  AVENUE  ROAD, 

ACTON,  LONDON,  W., 

November,  1871. 


CONTENTS. 


Page 
The  Preface          .  '      . " .    vii 

The  Causes  of  Blindness  and  Hints  for  the  Preservation 

of  Sight 1 

Use  of  Spectacles 26 

On  the  Training  of  Blind  Children 26 

On  the  Blind  Children  of  the  Poor      .         .        .        .        .41 
The  Education  of  the  Blind  of  the  Upper  Classes        .         .     43 

The  Senses .     46 

Sight 51 

Sight  as  a  Health-Giver 53 

Hearing .     55 

The  Effects  of  Darkness  and  Silence        .         .         .         .56 

The  Sense  of  Touch 58 

Smell        .        .        . 60 

Taste 61 

The  Influence  of  the  Loss  of  one  Sense  on  those  which 

Remain 62 

The  Unrecognized  Senses 64 

On  the  Blind  Walking  Alone,  and  of  Guides       ...     68 

Printing  for  the  Blind 77 

Mr.  Alston        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .        .87 

Lucas's  System         ........    88 


X  CONTRNTS. 

Page 
Printing  for  the  Blind — continued. 

Frere's  System 94 

Books  Printed  in  Roman  Capitals  and  Small  Letters       .     96 

Printing  by  W.  Moon 98 

Abortive  Inventions  for  Reading      .....  100 

The  System  by  G.  A.  Hughes 100 

The  System  by  Beniowski 101 

The  System  by  Mr.  Mitford 102 

Systems  of  Reading  in  America 102 

M.  Braille's  System 107 

Reading  in  Germany,  and  some  other  Countries          .         .  110 
An  Analysis  of  Various  Systems  of  Reading       .        .         .  Ill 

Reading  with  Certainty 114 

Reading  with  Ease  and  Certainty,  etc 116 

The  Best  System  of  Reading  for  the  Blind       .         .        .120 

Abbreviations 123 

General  Remarks  on  Reading  ......  123 

Writing 125 

Arithmetic  and  Algebra       .......  135 

Tangible  Maps  and  Globes,  etc ,        .        .138 

Mathematical  Diagrams  and  Pictures  ....  142 

Biography  : — 

Patriarchs,  Monarchs,  and  Political  Characters         .        .  145 
The  Patriarch  Isaac      .        .        .       ...        .        .145 

Samson 149 

Timoleon 154 

Aufidius        .        .        .        ....        .        .155 

A  Welsh  Prince 156 

Bela  the  Second,  King  of  Hungry,  and  his  Father  . 

Prince  Almos 156 

Dandolo,  Doge  of  Venice,  and  Prince  of  Romania       .  158 
Isaac   Angelus,  Emperor  of  Constantinople  and  the 

East 160 

Theodore,  Emperor  of  Epirus 162 


CONTENTS.  XI 

Page 
Biography — continued. 

John,  King  of  Bohemia 163 

Ziska,  the  Bohemian  General  and  Eeformer          .        .  165 
Basilius,  or  Basil  III.,  Czar  or  Prince  of  Moscow        .  175 
Shah  Allum,  the  Great  Mogul      .        .       .. .      ,        .176 

Pfeflel,  Privy  Councillor,  and  Instructor  in  the  Art  of 
War  .        ......',,  ;'.-,>•.  ','•'.   .«/'•:•        •  178 

Poets,  Philosophers,  and  Men  of  Letters         ,         .        .  178 
Homer  .        .        .        .;-,..  v      .-       .  178 

Diodorus "..„>«        .  184 

Didymus  of  Alexandria  and  Eusebius  the  Asiatic         .  185 
Sir    John  Gower,    the  Founder  of   the   Sutherland 
Family       .        .     ...t  ••  .».       .    .  ;..  .....    .'.   «        .  187 

Henry  the  Minstrel,  or  Blind  Harry     .         .         .        .  189 

Ludovico  Scapinelli,  the  Italian  Philologist  and  Poet  .  191 
Field  Marshal  Count  De  Pagan  .  .  .  v »  .  .  193 
John  Milton  ....  •'.->..  .'  .194 

De  Valbonaise .242 

Nicholas  Saunderson,  LL.D.,  F.E.S.  .  .  '..  .242 
Leonard  Euler,  Professor  of  Mathematics,  etc.  .  .  248 
Thomas  Blacklock,  D.D.  .  ...  ,  .  .249 
Francis  Huber,  the  Naturalist  .  .  .  .  .258 

John  Gough .        .        .260 

James  Wilson        .         .        .        ....        .  261 

Holman,  the  Traveller  and  Author       ....  278 

Lawyers  and  Divines 286 

Nicaise  De  Werde,  a  Priest  of  the  Eoman  Catholic 

Church 286 

Dr.  Nicholas  Bacon 288 

The  Eev.  John  Troughton 289 

The  Eev.  Eichard  Lucas,  D.D.,  Prebendary  of  West- 
minster, etc.       . .291 

The  Eev.  Edward  Stokes,  M.A 293 

Sir  John  Fielding,  Chief  Magistrate  of  Bow  Street 
Police  Court,  etc 294 


Xll  CONTENTS. 

Page 

Biography — con  tinned. 

Mr.  William  Pickard,  Solicitor  .  .  . «  .  .  298 
Mr.  Henry  Brown,  a  Law  Student  .  .  .  .  299 

Music  and  Musicians 301 

Franciscus  Salinas,  Professor  of    Music  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Salamanca 305 

Caspar  Crumbhorn,  Director  of  the  Musical  College  at 

Lignitz 306 

Carolan,  the  Irish  Composer  and  Harpist  .  .  .  307 
John  Stanley,  Doctor  of  Music,  and  Master  of  the 

Royal  Band,  etc 311 

Theresa  Von  Paradis 315 

Eminent  Blind  Musicians  of  the  Nineteenth  Century  .  318 
Prejudice  against  Blind  Organists         ....  319 
A  Letter  in  Defence  of  Blind  Musicians      .        .        .  320 
Do.                       do.                     ....  322 
A  Remarkable  Testimonial  in  Favour  of  Blind  Musi- 
cians              ...  324 

Inventions  connected  with  Tangible  Musical  Notation  325 
The  Profession  of  a  Turner  of  Pianofortes  .  .  .331 
Blind  Vocalists  .  .  .  -.  •  '.  '  .  '  _;  .332 
Cafe  des  Aveugles  .  .  .  i  .  .  .  333 
Brass  and  String  Bands  ..--..  .  .333 

Sculptors  and  their  Art 334 

The  Blind  Eminent  in  Trade  and  Manufactures       .        .  336 
John  Metcalf,  the  Builder  and  Contractor,  etc.     .        .  336 

Joseph  Strong       i 351 

Thomas  Wilson,  the  Blind  Turner,  and  Bell-ringer  of 

Dumfries 354 

Remarks  on  Industrial  Employments  .....  357 

Knitting,  Netting,  etc .357 

Basket-making  and  Cane-work 359 

Sack,  Mattress,  and  Bed-making      .....  360 
Mat  and  Matting-making         ......  361 


CONTENTS.  Xlll 

Page 
Remarks  on  Industrial  Employments — continued. 

Brush,  Broom  and  Mop-making 362 

Firewood-making 363 

Turning .         .         .364 

Carpentry  and  Cabinet-work 364 

Trades  connected  with  Leather 366 

Shoemaking  .  •- .  366 

Saddle  and  Harness-making 367 

Leather  Bags  and  Dressing-cases 367 

Corkcutting      . 367 

Pottery 368 

The  Making  of  Sash-line,  Rope,  and  Twine     .        .        .  368 

Wire-work        .        . 368 

Repairing  Watches  and  Clocks 369 

Employments  connected  with  Agriculture        .         .         .  369 
Remarks  on  the  Peculiar  Position  of  Blind  Women     .         .  373 

On  the  Instructors  of  the  Blind 378 

The  Blind  of  Various  Countries 382 

Europe      .    •  '.. 382 

Russia  .        .        . 382 

Sweden  and  Norway 383 

Denmark 384 

The  German  Empire 385 

The  Austrian  Empire 389 

Switzerland 391 

Holland 393 

Belgium 394 

France .        .398 

Spain .        .408 

Portugal 410 

The  Kingdom  of  Italy 410 

Greece  and  the  Ionian  Islands       .        .        .        .        .  413 
Turkey  in  Europe,  Montenegro,  Servia,  and  the  prin- 
cipalities of  Moldavia  and  Wallachia         .        .        .  414 
Asia  .  .  414 


xiv  CONTENTS. 

Page 
The  Blind  of  Various  Countries — continued. 

Turkey  in  Asia 414 

Arabia 416 

Russia  in  Asia 417 

Tartary  or  Turkestan 417 

Afghanistan 417 

Persia 418 

India 421 

The  Dutch  East  Indies 422 

Siam  and  Cochin  China 422 

The  Philippine  Isles 423 

China 423 

Japan 432 

Africa 435 

America 437 

The  United  States 437 

British  North  America 444 

Mexico 445 

The  West  Indies .  445 

Central  and  South  America  .         .        .        .   '     .        .446 

Australasia  and  Polynesia        ...'...  448 

The  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland          .  450 

England  and  Wales      .        .        .        .        .        .        .  450 

The  Ages  of  the  Blind  and  of  the  Sighted  compared  451 
Ages  of  Males  and  Females  without  Sight        .        .  452 

The  Blind  of  the  Metropolis 453 

The  Various  Counties  of  England  and  Wales  .         .  455 
Charitable  Efforts      .        .        .        .        .  .459 

Training  Institutions 459 

Industrial  Institutions       ......  462 

Pensions  for  the  Blind       .  '".'",        .        .  464 

On  the  Blind  connected  with  Begging       .        .        .  467 
Origin  of  the  Association  for  Promoting  the  General 
Welfare  of  the  Blind    .  .472 


CONTENTS.  XV 

Page 
The  Blind  of  Various  Countries — continued. 

Objects  of  the  Association 472 

How  far  such  Objects  have  been  carried  otit      .        .  473 
A  Prayer  for  the  Blind,  by  the  Eight  Rev.  A.  T. 

Gilbert,  the  Lord  Bishop  of  Chichester  .  .  480 
Scotland  .  .  .  ..  '/.  ".  ..''"'•  .  481 
Ages  of  Males  and  Females  without  Sight  .  .  481 
The  Ages  of  the  Blind  and  of  the  Sighted  compared  482 
The  Blind  in  the  various  Counties  of  Scotland  .  .  483 
The  Charitable  Institutions  of  Scotland  .  .  .484 

Ireland 487 

Ages  of  the  Blind 487 

The  Blind  of  the  various  Provinces  of  Ireland  .         .  488 

Charitable  Institutions  of  Ireland     ....  488 

The  Requirements  of  the  Blind  of  the  United  Kingdom  491 

The  Appendix  ..-     - 497 

A  Princess  Blinded  and  made  to  Beg       .        i       ..        .497 
A  Soldier's  description  of  his  Loss  of  Sight  in  Egypt       .  498 
The  Ophthalmoscope  and  remarkable  instances  of  the 
Eecovery  of  Sight         .         .        .        .        .  .  503 

The  History  of  Spectacles        .         .        .        .        .        .504 

The  Blind  Boy  at  Play -       .        .506 

A  Poem  by  Keats 507 

The  Blind  Boy's  Reflections 507 

Eyes  and  Tears,  by  Andrew  Marvel        ....  508 
Various  Educational  Appliances  for  the  Blind         .         .  509 

A  Guide  for  Writing  with  Ink 509 

A  Card  for  Pencil  Writing 510 

Embossed  Writing  Copies 511 

Writing  that  may  be  read  by  the   Blind  and  by  the 
Sighted         .        .        .       ..        .;'•      .        •        .         .511 

An  Arithmetical  Apparatus 513 

A  Tangible  Measuring  Tape 514 

A  Chess  and  Draught  Board 515 


XVI  -  CONTENTS. 

Page 
Appendix — continued. 

An  Instruction  Book  for  the  Pianoforte  in  Belief  Print  .  516 

A  Mariner's  Compass .516 

A  Tangible  Weather  Guide      .         .        .                 .  .517 

Needles  that  can  be  easily  Threaded        .        .        .  .  517 

The  Legal  Position  of  the  Blind       .        .        1        .  .517 

How  a  Blind  Man  should  make  a  Will    .  .  518 


BLINDNESS  AND  THE  BLIND. 


THE  CAUSES  OF  BLINDNESS  AND  HINTS  FOR  THE 
PRESERVATION  OF  SIGHT. 

As  it  is  generally  admitted  that  blindness  is  one  of 
the  greatest  evils  to  which  the  human  race  is  liable,  it 
cannot  be  out  of  place  to  take  into  consideration  the 
nature  of  the  causes  which  produce  so  heavy  a  cala- 
mity, and  the  means  best  adapted  to  prevent  persons 
being  overtaken  by  an  affliction  which  is  dreaded  alike 
by  every  class  of  the  community.  Until  a  compara- 
tively recent  period  small-pox  was  the  most  prolific 
cause  of  loss  of  sight,  but  vaccination  has  deprived  it 
to  a  very  great  extent  of  its  sting. 

£>mall-pox,  although  deprived  of  the  first  place  as  a 
destructive  agent,  still  exercises  great  influence  in 
causing  loss  of  vision.  At  the  present  vtime  a  very 
large  proportion  of  the  sightless  owe  their  misfortune 
to  the  agency  of  this  malady. 

To  prevent  blindness  from  small-pox,  care  should 
be  taken  to  see  that  every  member  of  the  family  be 
properly  vaccinated,  and  it  should  not  be  thought 
sufficient  that  the  operation  was  performed  in  infancy, 
but  the  process  should  be  repeated  at  least  every  three 
years.  Contact  with  persons  suffering  from  the  disease, 


2  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

or  lately  recovered  from  it,  should  be  studiously  avoided, 
unless  considerations  of  duty  render  such  contact  un- 
avoidable. In  such  circumstances  plain  diet,  simple 
non-infectives,  and,  above  all,  strong  faith  in  the  good- 
ness of  God  in  summoning  to  the  post  of  duty,  is  what 
becomes  the  Christian,  and  is  what  will  prove  his  best 
defence  against  this  fearful  scourge. 

Scrofula  is  a  fruitful  source  of  injury  to  the  eyes ;  and 
it  is  remarkable  that  while  vaccination  has  greatly 
limited  the  ravages  of  small-pox,  it  has,  on  the  other 
hand,  been  the  means  of  increasing  the  cases  of  scrofula. 
This  has  arisen  from  the  use  of  impure  virus,  thus  in- 
troducing into  the  system  the  germs  of  disease. 

The  productive  agents  of  scrofula  are — damp  and  ill- 
ventilated  dwellings,  want  of  cleanliness,  insufficient 
and  bad  food,  and  intemperance  of  all  kinds.  The 
blind,  owing  their  privation  to  this  malady,  have  not 
merely  to  contend  with  the  loss  of  sight,  but  they  have 
also  the  misfortune  of  possessing  very  weak  physical 
systems.  This  double  affliction  makes  their  position 
particularly  painful,  and  everything  should  be  done  to 
alleviate  their  misfortune  that  can  be  effected  by  nutri- 
tious diet,  pure  air,  moderate  bodily  exercise,  and 
diversity  of  mental  employment;  and  it  should  never  be 
forgotten  that  scrofula  is  one  of  the  diseases  in  which 
the  evils  are  not  confined  to  the  immediate  sufferer,  but 
the  ill  effects,  especially  in  extreme  cases,  descend  to 
posterity.  This  consideration  merits  great  attention, 
and  its  importance  cannot  be  over-estimated. 

Measles,  scarlet-fever,  and  typhus-fever  are  among 
the  most  potent  enemies  of  sight.  Measles  as  well  as 
small-pox  attain  their  greatest  development  among 
the  vast  populations  of  China,  for  in  that  empire  it  is 
estimated  that  fully  one-third  of  the  inhabitants  die  or 
become  blind  from  these  diseases. 

It  is  remarkable  that  among  the  Arabs  measles  and 


THE    CAUSES    OF    BLINDNESS.  3 

-, 

small-pox  are  almost  unknown,  and  it  has  been  con- 
jectured that  the  reason  of  this  exemption  is  to  be 
found  in  the  circumstance  of  their  living  so  much 
among  cattle. 

This  hypothesis,  however,  is  fairly  open  to  doubt, 
since  it  often  happens  that  contagious  diseases  first 
.arise  among  cattle,  and  are  thence  communicated  to 
the  human  beings  around  them ;  hence  the  wise  pre- 
cautions taken  by  civilized  governments  to  prevent 
disease  among  animals.  There  can  be  little  doubt 
that  contact  with  unhealthy  cattle  tends  to  a  very 
large  extent  to  the  increase  of  disease  among  men, 
and  it  may  be  therefore  assumed  that  the  true  cause 
•of  the  exemption  of  the  Arabs  from  measles  and  small- 
pox may  be  found  in  their  nomadic  life,  for  pure  air 
and  healthy  exercise  are  the  great  antidotes  against 
disease  of  all  kinds,  especially  those  of  a  contagious 
nature.  It  may  not  be  irrelevant  to  mention  here  that 
a  few  years  ago  a  shopkeeper  of  Berlin  having  a  son 
who  complained  that  he  could  not  see  so  well  as  usual 
with  one  of  his  eyes,  was  conducted  to  the  establish- 
ment of  Dr.  Greafe.  On  examining  the  patient,  the 
doctor  said  it  was  lucky  the  child  had  been  promptly 
brought  to  him,  for  he  declared  that  immediately  be- 
hind the  iris  of  the  affected  eye  there  was  a  tapeworm. 
41  This  parasite/'  he  added,  "  would  undoubtedly  have 
soon  completely  destroyed  the  organ  of  vision  in  which 
it  had  taken  up  its  quarters."  The  doctor  said,  "  It 
was  a  wonder  that  such  cases  were  not  more  fre- 
quent; they  arose,"  he  observed,  "from  eating  under- 
done or  uncooked  meat,  and  most  generally  pork." 

"In  1867,  trichiniasis  having  reappeared  at  Berlin, 
and  seventy  persons  being  at  one  time  ill  from  having 
eaten  of  pork  bought  from  one  butcher, — Drs.  Weiss 
and  Wiessner,  of  Vienna,  undertook  many  elaborate 
experiments,  with  the  view  of  throwing  additional 
light  on  the  awful  malady,  which  it  would  be  out  of 
place  to  recapitulate  here.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  they 


4  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

calculated  that  it  would  take  35,000,000  of  trichinae  to 
equal  the  weight  of  one  drachm,  and  that  an  effectual 
remedy  was  at  length  discovered  by  the  administra- 
tion to  adults  of  a  dose  consisting  of  fourteen  grains 
of  hydrosulphide  of  potash,  along  with  an  equal  weight 
of  vegetable  substance,  such  as  boiled  carrot,  parsnip, 
or  potato.  The  origin  of  the  disease  was  also  traced 
to  musty  bread,  on  which  the  contaminated  pigs  had 
fed,  in  which  an  insect  named  the  trichinosaurus  had 
deposited  its  eggs/' 

A  very  large  proportion  of  the  cases  of  blindness 
result,  from  the  social  habits  and  the  employments  of 
the  people.  Alexander,  the  eminent  ophthalmic  sur- 
geon, says  that  "the  prolific  causes  of  blindness  are 
small  print  and  gaslight."  The  injurious  effects  in 
the  latter  case  seem  not  so  much  to  result  from  gas- 
light per  so  as  from  the  quality  of  the  article  em- 
ployed, it  being  the  custom  in  many  establishments 
to  incorporate  quantities  of  sulphur  with  the  gas,  in 
order  to  increase  the  illuminating  power  at  small  cost 
to  the  manufacturer.  It  is  true  that  the  Legislature 
imposes  fines  for  such  conduct,  but  the  penalties  are 
altogether  too  small  to  prevent  the  evil.  It  is  much 
to  be  wished  that  the  medical  profession  would  inves- 
tigate this  subject,  with  a  view,  among  other  things, 
to  determine  the  smallest  print  that  can  be  used  with 
safety  by  the  ordinary  reader,  but  in  general  it  may 
be  said  that  where  any  one  finds  his  eyes  weakened 
by  reading  for  about  half  an  hour,  he  should  take  it 
as  an  evidence  that  the  print  is  too  small  for  him;  and 
it  may  also  be  laid  down  as  a  safe  principle  that  the 
less  a  person  reads,  even  the  best  print,  by  gas  or  any 
artificial  light,  the  better  he  will  find  it  for  the  visual 
organs. 

According  to  Landsburg,  a  German  chemist,  arti- 
ficial light  contains  ninety  per  cent,  of  calorific  rays, 
while  sunlight  possesses  only  fifty ;  to  this  predomi- 
nance of  heating  power,  as  compared  with  illuminating 


THE    CAUSES    OP    BLINDNESS.  d 

power  in  artificial  light,  he  attributes  the  disagreeable 
sensation  produced  upon  the  eyes.  A  very  thin  sheet 
of  mica  will  intercept  the  calorific  rays  and  render  the 
light  more  agreeable. 

Reading  while  travelling  by  rail  should  be  studiously 
avoided,  for  the  practice  produces  blindness,  especially 
among  commercial  men  and  those  whose  professions 
cause  them  to  travel  much.  The  cause  of  this  appears 
to  be  the  extra  strain  on  the  sight  produced  by  the 
motion  of  the  vehicle ;  and  it  may  be  interesting  to 
observe  that  King  Frederick  of  Prussia,  who  laboured 
under  weakness  of  the  eyes,  had  a  book  printed  by 
M.  Beaumarchais,  of  Kehl,  on  blue  paper. 

A  curious  work  was  published  a  few  years  ago  at 
Breslau  by  Dr.  Hermann  Cohn,  giving  the  results  of 
an  examination  of  the  eyes  of  10,000  school-children, 
when  it  appeared  that  the  proportion  of  those  who 
were  short-sighted  was  17*1  per  cent.,  or  more  than 
one-sixth  of  the  pupils.  No  village  children  were 
found  to  be  short-sighted  until  they  had  been  at  least 
half  a  year  at  school.  Dr.  Cohn  attributes  the  evil  in 
a  great  measure  to  the  bad  construction  of  school 
benches,  which  generally  oblige  the  children  to  read 
with  inclined  heads  and  the  books  close  to  their  eyes. 
Surely  this  subject  is  of  great  importance,  and  quite 
worthy  the  attention  of  our  school-boards. 

Large  numbers  of  tailors  and  dressmakers  suffer 
much  from  long  employment  on  dark  colours,  and  this 
suffering1  is  frequently  aggravated  by  their  working 
for  many  hours  by  gaslight  in  crowded  and  ill  venti- 
lated rooms. 

The  number  of  cases  of  blindness  which  can  be  di- 
rectly traced  to .  this  source  is  by  no  means  small,  and 
very  frequently  when  the  immediate  cause  of  the  afflic- 
tion is  found  to  be  inflammation,  there  is  good  reason 
to  believe  that  the  germs  of  the  disease  were  sown  in 
the  workshop. 

Although  the  decline  of  lace-making  has  produced 


6  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

much  privation,  yet  its  decay  can  scarcely  be  regarded 
in  any  other  light  than  that  of  a  blessing,  for  the  cor- 
poreal evils  inflicted  on  the  workers  almost  surpass 
description.  Forced  to  sit  for  many  hours  in  the  same 
place  with  the  eyes  fixed  on  one  spot,  with  the  light 
almost  entirely  excluded  from  the  apartment,  it  is  no 
matter  of  surprise  that  at  the  age  of  thirty  blindness 
frequently  overtakes  the  unfortunate  operative.  In 
Valenciennes  the  workers,  who  were  formerly  reckoned 
by  thousands,  usually  carried  on  their  occupation  in 
dark  cellars,  and  at  the  present  time  in  Brussels  rooms 
for  lace  factories  are  arranged  so  that  only  one  ray  of 
light  is  thrown  on  the  work,  and  the  women  employed 
often  become  blind  from  this  cause.  In  our  own 
country,  Honiton,  in  Devonshire,  chiefly  suffers  in  this 
way.  So  great  are  the  evils  produced  by  lace-making 
that  a  competent  authority  has  forcibly  said,  "It  would 
be  a  good  thing  if  the  work  perished  out  of  the  world." 
It  may  not  be  out  of  place  to  mention  that  some  me- 
dical professors  say  that  wearing  a  green  apron  tends 
to  lessen  the  ill  effects  of  fine  work  on  the  eyes. 

Needle-makers  are  exposed  to  peculiar  evils  from 
the  small  particles  of  steel,  thrown  off  in  the  process  of 
dry -grinding,  coming  in  contact  with  the  eyes  and 
lungs;  and  it  is  lamentable  to  find  that  although 
blindness  or  premature  death  is  almost  the  certain  lot 
of  persons  engaged  in  this  trade,  yet  they  generally 
prefer  to  risk  a  great  danger,  because  it  is  future, 
rather  than  put  themselves  to  a  slight  inconvenience 
by  adopting  non-magnifying  spectacles  to  preserve  the 
sight,  and  respirators  to  protect  the  lungs. 

Blacksmiths,  and  those  engaged  in  glass  and  smelt- 
ing-houses,  often  lose  their  sight  from  the  nature  of 
their  employments.  Watchmakers  are  also  among 
those  greatly  exposed  to  injury  from  the  over- exertion 
of  their  eyes.  The  effect  of  the  glare  of  heated  metals 


THE    CAUSES    OF    BLINDNESS. 


on  the  sight  is  shown  by  the  fact  that  in  the  middle 
ages,  when  blindness  was  inflicted  on  persons  for 
punishment,  this  mode  was  adopted  to  carry  out  the 
barbarous  sentence.  For  instance,  we  find  that  the  in- 
habitants of  the  city  of  Apollonia  executed  this  sentence 
upon  the  men  engaged  in  watching  on  the  walls  of 
their  city,  they  having  been  found  asleep;  and  also 
that  Amaroth,  Sultan  of  Turkey,  having  about  the 
year  1400  captured  Stephen  and  Gregory,  sons  of 
George  the  Prince  of  Servia,  at  the  taking  of  Sandreez, 
caused  them  to  be  blinded  by  red-hot  plates  of  brass 
being  kept  constantly  before  their  eyes,  and  thus 
gradually  the  humours  were  dried  up,  and  the  coats  of 
the  eyes  became  shrivelled. 

We  are  not  told  of  the  mode  adopted  by  the  Philis- 
tines to  deprive  Samson  of  sight,  but  from  the  earliest 
periods,  whenever  the  details  of  the  practice  are 
described,  the  use  of  heated  plates  of  metals  are  also 
spoken  of  as  the  means  employed  to  carry  out  the 
diabolical  sentence.  In  all  probability  Nebuchadnezzar 
put  out  the  eyes  of  Zedekiah,  King  of  Judah,  by  this 
means,  and  among  the  circumstances  recorded  of  for- 
cible deprivation  of  sight  we  will  only  mention  here 
the  following,  namely  : — 

Pope  Paschal  in  824  put  out  the  eyes  of  every 
monk  who  preached  fidelity  to  the  Emperor  of 
Germany.  In  873  Charles  the  Bald,  King  of  France, 
put  out  the  eyes  of  one  of  his  sons,  who,  having  been 
made  a  monk  against  his  will,  had  escaped  and  set  his 
father  at  defiance.  About  the  year  949  Hugh,  Duke 
of  Burgundy,  put  out  the  eyes  of  his  own  brother 
Lambert.  In  1004  the  King  of  Poland  conquered 
Bohemia,  and  put  out  the  eyes  of  its  duke.  But  all 
these  horrors  are  surpassed  by  the  fiendish  conduct  of 
Basilius,  the  Emperor  of  Constantinople  and  the  East, 
who  having  in  1013  defeated  the  Bulgarians,  put  out 
the  eyes  of  his  prisoners,  15,000  in  number,  leaving 
only  one  person  in  a  hundred,  it  is  said,  with  one  eye 


8  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

to  guide  the  poor  sightless  beings  to  their  homes.  It 
is  no  wonder  that  we  find  it  recorded  that  Samuel, 
King  of  the  Bulgarians,  fell  dead  on  beholding  the 
shocking  spectacle. 

It  is  now  our  painful  duty  to  record  that  our  own 
native  land  has  also  been  the  scene  of  this  barbarous 
practice,  for  we  find  that  in  1067  William  the  Con- 
queror, having  acquired  the  greater  part  of  England 
by  the  sword,  marched  westward  to  reduce  those 
parts,  and  approached  the  city  of  Exeter  with  a  large 
army.  The  citizens  seem  to  have  been  divided  as  to 
the  policy  of  resistance.  The  leading  burghers  of  the 
pacific  faction  repaired  to  the  Norman  camp,  besought 
the  pardon  of  the  king,  and  having  promised  fealty, 
•and  that  they  would  receive  him  with  open  gates,  gave 
such  hostages  as  he  required.  But  when  they  returned 
to  their  fellow-citizens  they  found  themselves  outvoted, 
and  the  majority  resolved  upon  an  obstinate  resist- 
ance. 

William,  who  was  then  encamped  four  miles  from 
the  city,  pushed  forward  with  five  hundred  horse,  but 
finding  the  gates  shut,  and  the  walls  and  bulwarks 
manned  with  a  great  force,  he  gave  orders  for  his 
whole  army  to  advance,  and  caused  the  eyes  of  the  un- 
fortunate hostages  to  be  put  out  in  front  of  the  city 
gates.  The  sequel  is  soon  told.  After  several  days' 
gallant  defence,  Exeter  surrendered,  and  the  inhabi- 
tants received  favourable  terms. 

It  would  seem  that  blinding  was  one  of  the  favourite 
punishments  of  William  the  Norman,  for  in  addition  to 
the  case  already  recorded,  historians  relate  that  a 
revolt  having  taken  place  in  1074  of  various  Norman 
and  Saxon  nobles,  William,  after  their  total  defeat 
near  Cambridge,  put  out  the  eyes  of  many  of  the 
insurgents ;  and  here  it  may  be  interesting  to  note 
that  Waltheof,  the  last  of  the  Saxon  nobility,  was 
executed  in  consequence  of  this  abortive  insurrection. 
The  evil  example  of  the  Conqueror  was  followed  by  his 


THE    CAUSES   OF   BLINDNESS.  \) 

son  William  Kufus,  who  during  his  reign  put  out  the 
eyes  of  Count  D'Eu,  who  was  accused  of  treason ;  he 
also  blinded  Donald  Blane,  the  ex-king  of  Scots. 

Another  of  the  sons  of  William  the  Conqueror  (Henry 
I.)  put  out  the  eyes  of  the  bard  Lake  de  Barre ;  and 
he  enacted  that  any  purveyor  found  guilty  of  a  crime 
against  the  country  should  be  mulcted  in  nose,  eyes, 
hands,  or  feet ;  and  it  is  even  said  that  Henry  destroyed 
the  sight  of  his  own  brother  Robert,  the  unfortunate 
Duke  of  Normandy. 

In  the  reign  of  King  Stephen,  Wimund,  an  English 
monk,  sometime  Bishop  and  pirate  of  the  Isle  of  Man, 
being  captured  in  a  foray  into  England,  was  deprived 
of  sight  and  imprisoned  for  life. 

The  plan  of  this  work  will  not  permit  of  a  full  list  of 
the  cases  in  which  blindness  has  been  inflicted  as  a 
punishment,  and  we  shall  therefore  content  ourselves 
by  naming  a  very  few  more  out  of  the  great  number 
to  be  found  scattered  through  the  histories  of  various 
countries. 

So  sanguinary  a  disposition  had  Isaac  Angelus, 
Emperor  of  Constantinople  at  the  end  of  the  twelfth 
century,  that  whenever  he  captured  a  general  who  had 
revolted  from  him,  he  caused  him  to  be  deprived  of 
sight,  and,  as  insurrections  were  of  frequent  occurrence, 
the  number  who  suffered  from  his  barbarity  in  this  re- 
spect was  exceedingly  great ;  at  length,  however,  he 
reaped  the  due  reward  of  his  cruelties,  for  he  was  him- 
self blinded  and  dethroned  by  his  brother  Alexis. 

In  the  wars  between  Eichard  I.  of  England  and 
Philip  of  France,  prisoners  on  both  sides  were  fre- 
quently deprived  of  sight. 

In  1261  the  young  Emperor  of  Constantinople,  John 
Lascarus,  was  deprived  of  sight  by  the  usurper  Alexis 
Strategopulus. 

Michael  Palaeologus,  Emperor  of  Constantinople, 
having  in  1273  determined  to  unite  himself  to  the 


10  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

Romish  Church,  put  out  the  eyes  of  many  of  his  sub- 
jects who  refused  to  renounce  the  Greek  faith. 

One  of  the  circumstances  which  preceded  the  Swiss 
war  of  Independence  in  1307  bears  on  this  subject,  and 
it  is  thus  related  by  Chambers.  "  As  William  Tell 
and  his  wife  sat  one  evening  in  front  of  their  cottage, 
they  saw  their  son  rush  towards  them  crying  for  help 
and  shouting  the  name  of  old  Melchthal.  As  he  spoke 
Arnold's  father  (Melchthal)  appeared  in  view,  led  by 
his  grand-daughter  Glair,  and  feeling  his  way  with  a 
stick.  Tell  and  his  wife  hastened  forward,  and  dis- 
covered, to  their  inconceivable  horror,  that  their  friend 
was  blind,  his  eyes  having  been  put  out  with  hot 
irons. 

"  The  hero  of  Biirglen,  burning  with  just  indignation, 
called  on  the  old  man  to  explain  the  fearful  sight,  and 
also  the  cause  of  Arnold's  absence.  The  unfortunate 
Melchthal  seated  himself,  surrounded  by  his  agonized 
friends,  and  immediately  satisfied  the  impatient 
curiosity  of  Tell. 

"  It  appeared  that  that  very  morning  the  father,  son, 
and  grand- daughter  were  in  the  fields  loading  a  couple 
of  oxen  with  produce  for  the  market-town,  when  an 
Austrian  soldier  presented  himself,  and  having  ex- 
amined the  animals,  which  appeared  to  suit  his  fancy, 
ordered  their  owner  to  unyoke  the  beasts  preparatory 
to  his  driving  them  off.  Adding  insolence  to  tyranny, 
he  further  remarked  that  such  clodpoles  might  very 
well  draw  their  own  ploughs  and  carts.  Arnold, 
furious  at  the  man's  daring  impertinence,  was  only  re- 
strained by  his  father's  earnest  entreaties  from  sacri- 
ficing the  robber  on  the  spot ;  nothing,  however, 
could  prevent  him  from  aiming  a  blow  at  him,  which 
broke  two  of  his  fingers.  The  enraged  soldier  then 
retreated;  but  old  Melchthal,  who  well  knew  the 
character  of  Gessler  (the  Austrian  Governor),  imme- 
diately forced  Arnold,  much  against  his  inclination,  to 
go  and  conceal  himself  for  some  days  in  the  Righi. 


THE    CAUSES    OP    BLINDNESS.  11 

a  rare  circumstance  with  the  Swiss  Alps — and  is  one 
of  the  most  conspicuous  hills  of  Switzerland.  In  form 
a  truncated  cone,  with  its  base  watered  by  three  lakes 
— Lucerne,  Zug,  and  Zurich — this  gigantic  hill  is 
pierced  by  deep  caverns,,  of  which  two  are  famous — 
the  B  ruder-balm  and  the  hole  of  Kessis-Boden. 
Scarcely  had  Arnold  departed  in  this  direction,  when 
a  detachment  of  guards  from  Altorf  surrounded  their 
humble  tenement,  and  dragged  old  Melchthal  before 
Gressler,  who  ordered  him  to  give  up  his  son.  Furious 
at  the  refusal  which  ensued,  the  tyrant  commanded  the 
old  man's  eyes  to  be  put  out,  and  then  sent  him  forth 
blind  to  deplore  his  misfortunes/' 

Andronicus,  the  eldest  son  of  John  Palgeologusr 
Emperor  of  Constantinople,  having  in  1367  conspired 
in  connection  with  Sais,  or  Kontuses,  the  son  of  Amu- 
rat,  Sultan  of  the  Turks,  to  dethrone  their  parents  and 
to  possess  themselves  of  the  two  empires,  being  cap- 
tured, the  Sultan  deprived  his  own  son  of  sight,  and 
ordered  John  Palaeologus,  the  Christian  Emperor  of 
Constantinople,  to  follow  his  example.  The  Emperor 
obeyed  the  Turkish  mandate  by  depriving  his  son  of 
sight,  and  also  indulged  his  own  evil  passions  by 
putting  out  the  eyes  of  his  grandson. 

About  the  year  1490,  the  last  king  of  the  Moors,  in 
Spain,  having  been  expelled  from  that  country  by  the 
victorious  troops  of  Ferdinand  and  Isabella,  took  re- 
fuge with  his  countrymen  in  Africa,  but  being  seized 
and  brought  to  trial  by  the  ruler  of  Fez,  for  alleged 
misconduct  while  a  king,  he  was  cruelly  blinded,  and 
wandered  about  the  city  of  Fez  with  a  label  attached 
to  his  dress,  to  the  following  effect : — "  View  here  the' 
deplorable  sovereign  of  Andalusia  I" 

About  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  Ivan  the 
Terrible,  Czar  of  Muscovy,  after  the  completion  of  a 
church  of  great  magnificence  in  Moscow,  ordered  the 
eyes  of  the  architect  to  be  put  out,  lest  he  should  ever 
construct  another  building  similar  in  beauty. 


12  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

The  great  Persian  conqueror,  Nadir  Shah,  in  1743, 
added  to  the  many  cruelties  which  disgraced  the  latter 
part  of  his  reign  by  depriving  his  bravest  and  eldest 
son,  Rezu  Kouli,  of  sight ;  and  another  Shah  of  the  same 
country,  Aga  Mahommed  Khan,  at  the  end  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  was  also  found  cruel  enough  to 
inflict  blindness  upon  his  own  brother,  and  to  issue 
orders  that  the  entire  population  of  the  city  of  Kerman, 
which  he  had  captured  in  war,  should  either  be  put  to 
death  or  deprived  of  sight. 

In  Tartary,  even  as  late  as  the  middle  of  the  nine- 
teenth century,  putting  out  eyes  was  common,  as  a 
punishment  until  the  conquest  of  that  country  by  the 
Russians,  put  an  end  to  the  practice;  and  we  deem  the 
subject  of  sufficient  interest  to  transcribe  here  the  de- 
scription of  this  horrid  cruelty  given  by  an  eminent 
traveller  in  Central  Asia,  Arminius  Vanbery.  This 
author,  writing  in  1864,  of  what  he  witnessed  at  Samar- 
cand  in  Turkistan,  says,  "  In  the  first  court  I  found 
about  three  hundred  highlanders,  prisoners  of  war, 
covered  with  rags.  They  were  so  tormented  by  the 
dread  of  their  approaching  fate,  and  by  the  hunger 
which  they  had  endured  for  several  days,  that  they 
looked  as  if  they  had  just  risen  from  their  graves. 

"They  were  separated  into  two  divisions,  namely, 
such  as  had  not  yet  reached  their  fortieth  year  and 
were  to  be  sold  as  slaves,  or  to  be  made  use  of  as  pre- 
sents, and  such  as  from  their  rank  or  age  were  regarded 
as  Aksakals  (greybeards)  or  leaders,  and  who  were  to 
suffer  the  punishment  imposed  by  the  Khan.  The 
former,  chained  together  by  their  iron  collars,  in  num- 
bers of  ten  to  fifteen,  were  led  away ;  the  latter  sub- 
missively awaited  the  punishment  awarded.  They 
looked  like  lambs  in  the  hands  of  the  executioners. 

"  While  several  were  led  to  the  gallows  or  the  block, 
I  saw,  how  by  a  sign  from  the  executioner,  eight  aged 
men  placed  themselves  down  on  their  backs  on  the 
earth ;  they  were  then  bound  hand  and  foot,  and  the 


THE    CAUSES    OF   BLINDNESS.  13 

executioner  gouged  out  their  eyes  in  turn,  kneeling  to 
do  so  on  the  breast  of  each  poor  wretch ;  and  after 
every  operation  he  wiped  his  knife,  dripping  with 
blood,  upon  the  white  beard  of  the  hoary  unfortunate. 
Ah !  cruel  spectacle !  As  each  fearful  act  was  com- 
pleted, the  victim  liberated  from  his  bonds,  groping 
around  with  his  hands,  sought  to  gain  his  feet,  some 
fell  against  each  other,  head  against  head,  others  sank 
powerless  to  the  earth  again,  uttering  low  groans,  the 
memory  of  which  will  make  me  shudder  as  long  as  I 
live." 

In  China  it  seems  not  at  all  uncommon  for  young 
girls  to  have  their  sight  extinguished  by  means  of  hot 
needles,  in  order  that  the  sufferers  may  be  used  more 
successfully  as  beggars. 

The  humane  Gutzlaff  sent  four  girls  to  the  school 
of  the  Society  for  Teaching  the  Blind  to  Eead,  London ; 
and  two  to  the  Pennsylvania  Institution,  Philadelphia ; 
and  it  is  known  that  some  of  those  thus  rescued  lost 
their  sight  as  above  described.  In  Christian  Europe, 
however,  and  even  in  Gutzlaff 's  own  country  similar 
practices  are  not  altogether  unknown.  It  is  recorded 
that  the  infant  child  of  a  German  Prince  was  stolen, 
deprived  of  sight,  and  trained  to  become  a  beggar,  and 
also  how  she  was  recovered  by  her  mother,  educated 
and  married  to  a  prince,  her  cousin.  For  the  interest- 
ing particulars  of  this  truly  romantic  history  the  reader 
is  referred  to  the  Appendix. 

About  the  year  1843,  a  woman  was  taken  in  charge 
by  the  police  for  begging  on  London  Bridge  with  two 
children,  who,  she  stated,  were  both  blind.  On  reach- 
ing the  station-house  it  was  observed  that  the  children 
cried  very  much,  and  that  they  put  their  hands  to  the 
bandages  that  covered  their  eyes.  On  the  removal  of 
the  bandages  the  police  were  filled  with  horror,  on 
finding  blackbeetles  eating  into  the  very  eyes  of  the 
children,  and  thus  depriving  them  of  that  sight,  for 
the  loss  of  which  sympathy  was  being  implored  by  the 


14  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

inhuman  being  calling  herself  a  mother.  The  black- 
beetles  were  confined  by  walnut- shells,  and  answered 
the  double  purpose  of  destroying  the  visual  organs, 
and  at  the  same  time  of  making  the  children  cry,  so 
as  to  excite  compassion.  We  need  scarcely  say  that 
the  woman  received  the  heaviest  punishment  which  an 
English  magistrate  could  give,  and  that  the  children 
were  properly  cared  for. 

Before  quitting  this  subject  it  may  be  as  well  to  re- 
mark, that  in  most  countries,  when  the  punishment  of 
blinding  was  intended  to  be  gentle,  it  was  effected  by 
red-hot  plates,  as  already  described,  but  when  no 
mercy  was  intended  to  the  victim,  his  eyes  were  plucked 
out  with  the  thumb  and  finger,  or  crushed  with  the 
heel  of  a  boot. 

That  any  one  should  be  found  who  could  wilfully 
deprive  himself  of  sight  seems  almost  incredible,  but 
instances  are  recorded  of  this  having  been  done  both 
in  ancient  and  modern  times. 

It  is  said  that  Democritus  the  Thracian  philosopher, 
and  the  contemporary  of  Socrates,  put  out  his  eyes, 
that  he  might  devote  himself  more  completely  to  me- 
ditation. This  is,  however,  denied  by  Plutarch.  We 
have  a  striking  example  in  recent  days  of  how  far  de- 
pravity may  reach  in  the  statement  made  by  one  of  the 
medical  officers  of  the  Ennis  Union,  Ireland,  to  the 
effect  that  many  of  the  girls  in  the  union  had  been  in 
the  habit  for  a  long  period,  during  several  years  pro- 
bably, of  producing  artificial  ophthalmia  by  rubbing 
their  eyes  with  a  mixture  of  soap  and  lime,  the  motive 
assigned  for  this  conduct  being  that  they  might  thereby 
obtain  some  longed-for  privilege  in  the  shape  of  im- 
proved diet. 

Of  all  the  diseases  inimical  to  vision  none  is  more 
injurious  than  that  of  Ophthalmia,  which  in  its  general 
sense  signifies  inflammation,  and  may  thus  be  used  as 
representing  half  the  cases  of  blindness  that  occur  in 
the  world. 


THE    CAUSES    OP    BLINDNESS.  15 

Ophthalmia,  however,  is  generally  used  to  indicate 
the  purulent  or  contagious  ophthalmia  found  in  Egypt. 
It  varies  very  much  in  its  exciting  causes.  A  resi- 
dence in  damp  or  sandy  countries,  exposure  to  the 
sun,  and  sudden  changes  of  weather,  are  among  the 
most  usual  productive  agents  of  this  disease.  From 
this  it  follows  that  soldiers  and  sailors  chiefly  suffer 
from  its  effects,  and  it  is  found  that  from  the  middle 
ages  to  the  present  time  this  malady  has  proved  a 
virulent  scourge  to  the  followers  of  the  profession  of 
arms. 

In  the  days  of  the  Crusades,  great  numbers  of  those 
who  left  their  native  soil  to  drive  the  Infidel  from  the 
Holy  Land,  returned  home  to  deplore  through  the  rest 
of  their  days  the  effects  of  a  climate  against  which 
courage  had  proved  useless.  It  is  said  that  the  streets 
of  London,  and  other  English  towns,  were  beset  in  the 
twelfth  century  by  large  numbers  of  blind  men,  who 
cried  out  as  they  felt  their  way  through  the  streets  : 
"  Sainte  terre,  Sainte  terre  \"  i.  e.  "  Holy  land,  Holy 
land  \"  This  was  to  show  that  they  had  lost  their  sight  in 
the  Holy  Land,  and  it  was  doubtless  the  strongest  appeal 
that  could  be  made  for  alms  to  the  pious  people  of 
those  days.  In  France  this  evil  attracted  the  atten- 
tion of  the  government,  and  Louis  IX.,  called  St.  Louis, 
in  1260,  founded  an  institution  for  the  reception  of  300 
blind  persons.  The  number  of  inmates  gave  name  to 
the  establishment,  and  it  has  ever  since  been  known  as 
"Lea  Quinze  Vingts,"  i.e.  "The  Three  Hundred." 
This  charity  is  still  in  existence  near  La  Place  de  la 
Bastille,  Paris.  Each  inmate  is  allowed  a  franc  and  a 
half  a  day,  and  a  small  room  with  simple  furniture. 
Both  men  and  women  are  now  admitted,  the  only 
qualifications  being  blindness  and  poverty.  The  in- 
mates may  have  their  families  with  them,  and  those 
who  choose  may  live  out  of  the  building,  but  this  seems 
to  be  considered  in  the  light  of  an  offence,  as  when 
they  do  not  live  in  the  house  the  allowance  of  a  franc 


16  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

and  a  half  a  day  is  considerably  reduced.  It  may  be 
remarked  that  Les  Quinze  Vingts  is  the  oldest  insti- 
tution for  the  blind  in  Europe,  or  perhaps  in  the  world, 
and  we  are  sure  the  reader  will  peruse  with  interest 
an  episode  in  the  life  of  one  of  its  inmates,  given  in 
another  part  of  this  work. 

The  French  army  suffered  greatly  from  ophthalmia 
during  their  occupation  of  Egypt,  from  1798  to  1801, 
and  the  British  troops,  who  wrested  that  country  from 
them,  were  no  less  subject  to  the  ravages  of  the  dis- 
ease. The  position  of  one  afflicted  with  this  painful 
malady  is  simply  and  forcibly  described  in  a  little  poem 
by  James  Downing,  who  himself  became  blind  while 
serving  in  Egypt  as  an  English  soldier;  and  it  is  felt  that 
a  quotation  will  not  be  out  of  place  in  the  Appendix  of 
this  volume,  to  which  the  reader  is  referred. 

From  1813  to  1815,  purulent  or  Egyptian  oph- 
thalmia raged  dreadfully  in  the  European  armies, 
and,  in  the  year  1830,  it  broke  out  with  great  in- 
tensity among  the  Belgian  troops,  and  continued  its 
ravages  for  at  least  ten  years.  M.  Caffe,  writing  on 
this  subject  in  1840,  says,  "  that  since  its  commence- 
ment in  1830,  it  has  affected  more  than  a  hundred 
thousand  persons,  and  has  deprived  many  of  their 
sight.  In  some  regiments  more  than  half  the  men 
were  attacked. 

It  seems  certain  that  Ireland  has  suffered  more  from 
ophthalmia  than  any  country  in  Europe,  and  among  the 
predisposing  causes  may  be  reckoned  the  workhouses,  as 
managed  in  that  country ;  the  confinement  within  the 
dull  walls  of  such  establishments,  among  other  evils,  en- 
tails that  of  danger  to  the  eyes.  The  other  causes  are, 
the  damp  climate  and  the  extreme  poverty  of  the  people; 
the  last-named  not  allowing  them  to  have  sufficient  nu- 
tritious food,  and  obliging  them  to  walk  without  shoes 
and  to  live  without  proper  clothing,  and  house  accom- 
modation. According  to  the  eminent  ophthalmic  sur- 
geon, Sir  W.  E.  Wild,  ophthalmia  raged  in  Ireland 


THE    CAUSES    OP   BLINDNESS.  17 

from  1701  to  1862;  and  from  the  same  authority  we 
gather  that  this  disease  gradually  increased,  so  that 
from  1849  to  1861  no  fewer  than  199,773,  or  nearly 
two  hundred  thousand  persons  suffered  from  this  ma- 
lady in  the  Irish  workhouses  alone. 

It  is  not  only  in  Ireland  that  the  workhouse  system 
produces  ophthalmia;  the  English  poor  are  also  ex- 
posed to  its  baneful  influence.  In  Dover  Union  "Work- 
house, in  1863,  more  than  seventy  children  were  at- 
tacked by  this  epidemic. 

The  author  of  the  '  Embassy  of  D.  Garcias  de  Sylva 
Figueros  to  Persia'  tells  us  that  in  several  parts  of 
that  empire  are  found  vast  numbers  of  blind  people, 
of  all  ages  and  conditions,  who  owe  their  calamity  to 
a  species  of  small  fly,  which  pricks  the  eyes  and  lips 
and  enters  the  nostrils,  and  these  insects  produce 
blindness  whenever  they  light  on  the  eyes.  In  China 
and  Australia  sight  is  very  frequently  destroyed  by 
the  dust-showers  that  prevail  at  certain  seasons.  To 
such  an  extent,  indeed,  is  this  the  case  in  China, 
that  the  imperial  troops  are  .provided  with  goggles  for 
the  protection  of  their  eyes  from  this  subtle  enemy. 
In  northern  latitudes  sight  is  greatly  affected  by  the 
reflection  of  the  sun  and  the  moon  upon  the  snow,  and 
the  proportion  of  the  blind  is  found  to  be  much  greater 
in  Northern  than  in  Central  Europe.  The  Esquimaux 
are  very  subject  to  this  complaint,  from  the  bright  re- 
flection of  their  snow-fields,  and  have  learned  by  expe- 
rience to  guard  against  the  danger,  by  using  snow- 
spectacles,  which  are  simply  pieces  of  wood  pierced 
with  small  circular  holes,  bound  before  their  eyes  so 
as  to  shut  out  a  part  of  the  field  from  view ;  and  tra- 
vellers in  Arctic  regions  have  found  that  coloured 
spectacles  answer  the  same  purpose. 

No  inconsiderable  number  of  persons  have  never 
seen  the  light.  Many  were  born  blind,  and  many  more 
lost  their  sight  from  want  of  proper  attention  being 
paid  to  their  eyes  immediately  after  birth. 

c 


18  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

Loss  of  sight  from  birth,  or  congenital  blindness^ 
seems  usually  to  arise  from  a  peculiar  state  of  the 
nervous  system  in  one  of  the  parents,  but  chiefly  in 
that  of  the  mother. 

Frequently,  when  one  or  more  children  are  born 
blind,  others  of  the  same  family  are  either  idiotic,  deaf,, 
deaf  and  dumb,  or  are  subject  to  fits.  Often  several 
brothers  and  sisters  are  without  sight,  and  the  writer 
is  acquainted  with  twenty-six  instances  in  which  this 
occurs.  In  one  of  these  cases  there  are  five,  in  two 
four,  in  thirteen  three,  and  in  ten  two  children  of  the 
same  parents  thus  afflicted.  In  one  instance  three 
sons  are  totally  deaf,  dumb,  and  blind. 

Frequently  great  weakness  of  intellect  is  perceptible 
in  the  born  blind,  and  generally  the  nervous  system  is 
peculiarly  sensitive.  ' 

Sometimes  the  affliction  is  ascribed  to  the  mother 
having  seen  a  blind  person  before  the  birth  of  a  child, 
and  it  is  to  be  observed  that  mothers  themselves  often 
attribute  the  blindness  of  their  children  to  this  circum- 
stance. 

To  guard  against  being  misunderstood,  it  may  be 
as  well  to  state  that  the  remark  as  to  the  frequent 
weakness  of  intellect  of  the  born  blind  is  not  intended 
to  apply  to  those  who  lose  their  sight  from  improper 
treatment  immediately  after  birth.  These  persons,  on 
the  contrary,  compare  very  favourably  in  strength  of 
nerve  and  general  mental  power  with  the  most  gifted 
members  of  the  community.  It  is  commonly  supposed 
that  the  offspring  of  two  blind  parents  must  of  neces- 
sity be  without  sight,  but  this  does  not  by  any  means 
follow;  for  in  forty  cases  in  which  both  father  and 
mother  were  sightless,  out  of  the  number  of  children 
born  (which  was  by  no  means  inconsiderable),  not 
one  instance  of  blindness  occurred.  Some  cases  have, 
however,  been  known  in  which  a  blind  father  or  mo- 
ther have  had  one  or  more  children  totally  or  partially 
blind  -,  but  close  investigation  has  shown  that  in  these 


THE    CAUSES    OE    BLINDNESS.  19 

instances  the  affliction  of  the  parent  has  been  caused 
by  hereditary  nervous  disease. 

Of  course  if  two  blind  persons  were  married,  both 
of  whom  owed  their  loss  of  sight  to  hereditary  nervous 
disease,  the  probability  of  their  offspring  being  blind 
would  almost  amount  to  certainty,  but  as  far  as  can  be 
traced  a  case  of  this  kind  has  never  occurred. 

Some  writers  are  of  opinion  that  the  intermar- 
riage of  relatives  tends  to  produce  blindness,  and  a 
few  facts  are  adduced  which  seem  to  sustain  this  hypo- 
thesis, but  as  there  are  facts  equally  strong  on  the 
other  side,  no  definite  result  can  be  arrived  at.  Never- 
theless, the  subject  possesses  a  peculiar  interest,  and 
demands  close  investigation;  but  we  feel  that  if  the 
theory  were  correct,  nearly  all  the  inhabitants  of  small 
villages  would  be  blind,  as  the  people  in  such  cases 
invariably  intermarry  very  closely. 

'  Amaurosis/  or  '  Gutta  Serena/  as  it  was  formerly 
called,  is  a  disease  which  deprives  persons  of  sight 
without  producing  any  apparent  defect  in  the  eyes. 
It  is  particularly  injurious  to  those  past  middle  life, 
and  is  often  connected  with  disease  of  the  brain  and 
the  nervous  system.  It  sometimes  attacks  several 
members  of  a  family,  and  usually  comes  on  at  the 
same  time  of  life.  Intemperance  of  all  kinds,  but 
especially  that  of  excessive  drinking,  tends  to  pro- 
duce amaurosis,  but  the  most  usual  cause  is  that  of 
hard  mental  and  visual  work.  Milton  owed  his  afflic- 
tion to  amaurosis,  and  he  thus  beautifully  describes 
his  position  in  the  following  lines,  addressed  to  Cyriac 
Skinner : — 

"  Cyriac,  this  three  years- 
Day  these  eyes,  though  clear 
To  outward  view,  of  blemish  or  of  spot, 
Bereft  of  light,  their  seeing  have  forgot. 
Nor  to  their  idle  orbs  doth  sight  appear 
Of  sun,  or  moon,  or  star,  throughout  the  year, 

c2 


20  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

Or  man,  or  woman.     Yet  I  argue  not 

Against  Heaven's  hand  or  will,  nor  bate  a  jot 

Of  heart  or  hope :  but  still  bear  up  and  steer 

Eight  onward.     What  supports  me,  dost  thou  ask  ? 

The  conscience,  friend,  to  have  lost  them  overplied 

In  liberty's  defence,  my  noble  task, 

Of  which  all  Europe  rings  from  side  to  side. 

This  thought  might  lead  me  through  the  world's  vain  masque, 

Content,  though  blind,  had  I  no  better  guide." 

A  singular  instance  of  recovery  of  sight  by  one  who 
had  been  long  blind  from  a  nervous  affection,  is  afforded 
by  the  records  of  the  Jewish  Charity  of  London,  which 
grants  pensions  to  those  of  their  own  people  who  are 
without  sight.  The  case  referred  to  is  that  of  a  woman 
who  had  been  entirely  blind,  and  in  receipt  of  a  pen- 
sion for  about  eight  years,  but  dui-ing  a  heavy  storm 
she  became  suddenly  aware,  as  she  expressed  it,  of  "  a 
glimmer  of  light,"  which  so  improved  day  after  day 
that  in  a  few  weeks  her  sight  was  perfectly  restored. 
All  that  can  be  gathered  of  her  feelings  under  this, 
almost  miraculous  restoration  of  vision,  is,  that  she 
was  "  greatly  shocked  at  the  thunder  and  lightning/' 

Among  the  occupations  injurious  to  sight  must  be 
reckoned  that  of  the  small  shopkeeper,  who  is  in  busi- 
ness till  late  at  night,  and  who  often  sleeps  in  the 
shop,  or  in  a  small  room  adjoining.  Miners,  navvies, 
sportsmen,  and  those  engaged  in  powder-mills,  and  in 
the  army  and  navy,  are  often  suddenly  deprived  of 
sight  by  the  explosion  of  gunpowder ;  and  a  very  large 
number  of  the  sightless  owe  their  misfortune  to  very 
simple  accidents,  such  as  a  blow  on  the  head,  a  broken 
leg,  an  injury  to  the  spine  from  a  fall,  being  struck  on 
the  eye  by  a  stone,  or  from  the  effects  of  vitriol  or 
hot  water.  It  has  been  sometimes  stated  by  per- 
sons of  considerable  authority  that  both  obesity  and 
smoking  are  injurious  to  sight,  but  there  does  not  ap- 
pear to  be  sufficient  evidence  in  either  case  to  support 
the  statement.  We,  however,  think  it  desirable  to 
insert  the  following  extracts,  taken  from  an  article  in 


THE    CAUSES    OP    BLINDNESS.  21 

the  '  Medical  Mirror'  for  October,  1869,  and  from  an 
American  paper : — 

"  Tobacco  smokers  must  look  to  their  eyes.  Proofs 
are  accumulating  that  blindness,  due  to  slowly  pro- 
gressive atrophy  of  the  optic  nerves,  induced  by  smok- 
ing, is  of  frequent  occurrence !"  In  one  of  the 
volumes  of  the  London  Hospital  Eeports,  Mr.  Jonathan 
Hutchinson  has  narrated  several  cases  of  amaurosis, 
the  histories  of  which  go  far  to  establish  the  fact  that 
in  each  case  the  blindness  was  brought  on  by  that 
rapidly-increasing,  and,  as  it  appears,  baneful  habit; 
and  in  the  '  Medical  Times  and  Gazette/  Sept.  4, 
the  same  distinguished  surgeon  has  described  another 
striking  case  of  "  tobacco  amaurosis,  ending  in  abso- 
lute blindness,  induced  in  eighteen  months."  "The 
patient,  aged  fifty,  a  railway  clerk,  enjoyed  good  sight 
until  January,  1867,  and  excellent  general  health,  with 
the  exception  of  a  single  attack  of  gout.  For  twenty 
years  he  had  never  been  under  medical  care/'  and, 
excepting  the  optic  atrophy,  no  cerebral  symptoms 
were  observable.  After  leaving  off  smoking  entirely 
for  a  whole  year,  no  apparent  benefit  was  experienced. 
"For  ten  years  before  his  failure  of  sight  he  had 
been  a  pledged  teetotaller,  had  never  at  any  time  been 
intemperate,  and  continued  his  abstinent  habits  du- 
ring the  whole  period  of  treatment.  He  is  a  remark- 
ably intelligent  man;  was  in  former  life  a  great 
reader,  and/'  says  Mr.  Hutchinson,  "  he  tells  me  that 
since  his  affliction  he  has  been  made  acquainted  with 
the  particulars  of  many  similar  cases."  "  I  have  been 
astonished,"  he  says,  "  to  find  that  it  is  not  the  fast 
livers  that  it  takes.  It  is  usually  the  hard-workers 
and  abstemious."  He  is  strongly 'impressed  with  the 
belief  that  both  in  his  own  case,  and  in  that  of  most 
others  he  has  seen,  smoking  was  the  real  cause.  "I 
wish  to  ask  especial  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  man 
was  smoking  heavily,  whilst  taking  no  kind  of  alco- 
holic stimulant.  I  have  met  with  several  cases  in 


22  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

which  this  history  was  given,  and  am  decidedly  of  opi- 
nion that  the  injurious  influence  of  tobacco  is  to  some 
extent  counteracted  by  alcohol." 

We  can  readily  assent  to  Mr.  Hutchinson's  opinion, 
which,  indeed,  does  but  confirm  the  proverb,  "  One 
evil  brings  another,"  for  we  have  long  been  convinced 
that  great  tea  and  coffee  drinkers  may  persist  in  their 
habit  the  more  recklessly,  the  more  freely  they  indulge 
in  drinking  alcohol.  Also, 

"In  some  cases  the  impairment  of  vision  which 
goes  by  the  name  of  Amblyopia,  precedes  its  entire 
loss,  from  palsy  of  the  optic  nerve.  Objects  are  perceived 
but  imperfectly;  they  appear  more  or  less  obscured 
by  cloud  or  haziness ;  the  letters  of  a  book  run  into 
each  other,  and  become  confused ;  the  eye  is  soon 
tired,  and  waters,  or  becomes  bloodshot  if  exertion  is 
continued.  M.  Viardin  has  reported  three  cases  of 
this  disease  caused  by  smoking.  In  the  treatment  of 
these  cases  the  quantity  of  tobacco  smoked  was  reduced, 
under  the  direction  of  M.  Viardin,  and  the  sight  was 
restored  in  the  course  of  a  few  weeks.  He  must  be  a 
very  slave  to  the  use  of  the  weed,  who,  having  once 
recovered  from  the  poisonous  effects,  would  persist  in 
the  habit." 

Thousands  become  blind  simply  from  the  effects  of 
old  age,  and  it  is  curious  to  find  that  Thomas  Parr, 
commonly  called  "  Old  Parr,"  was  blind  during  the 
last  twenty  years  of  his  life,  which  extended  to  152 
years. 

The  imperfection  of  vision  called  "  Colour-blind- 
ness "  is  in  many  cases  hereditary,  and  there  are  se- 
veral instances  in  which  almost  all  the  members  of  a 
family  have  been  affected  in  this  way.  Dr.  Wilson 
states  that,  with  few  exceptions,  each  colour-blind  per- 
son whom  he  examined  had  near  relatives  as  colour- 
blind as  himself.  Five  had  each  a  brother  colour- 
blind. One  had  five  brothers  equally  defective,  an- 
other had  his  father,  brother,  sister  and  nephew  in 
the  same  predicament. 


THE    CAUSES    OF   BLINDNESS.  23 

The  Countess  of  D/s  brother,  son  and  two  nephews, 
were  colour-blind,  and  a  Mr.  P.  had  five  near  relatives 
equally  so.  Dr.  Wilson  is  of  opinion  that  one  person 
in  every  fifty  mistakes  red  for  green,  brown  for  green, 
and  purple  for  blue,  and,  including  all  kinds  of  colour- 
blindness, he  thinks  that  one  in  twenty  is  colour-blind. 

In  an  interesting  paper  laid  before  the  Society  of 
Industrial  Sciences  at  Lyons,  Professor  Fournet  an- 
nounced that  he  had  himself  "  a  singular  imperfection 
in  the  visual  organs,  known  under  the  name  of  Dal- 
tonism, and  which  is  much  more  common  than  is 
generally  supposed.  The  defect  consists  in  an  erro- 
neous perception  of  colours,  and  is  named  after  Dr. 
Dalton,  a  celebrated  English  physician,  who  first  dis- 
covered the  peculiarity  in  himself,  and  found  that 
cherries  and  their  leaves  had  for  him  the  same  tint. 
M.  Fournet  knew  two  students  of  the  Ecole  des  Mines, 
who,  having  no  clear  idea  of  colours,  were  unable  to 
distinguish  the  various  minerals;  and  one  of  them 
having  to  use  a  carmine  wash  in  some  drawing,  used 
Indian  ink  for  the  purpose.  In  a  lengthy  treatise, 
Dr.  Potton,  of  Lyons,  has  ranged  in  the  same  category 
a  large  number  of  shopmen  who  were  obliged  to  be 
dismissed  for  the  simple  reason  that  they  could  never 
distinguish  the  various  shades  of  the  stuffs  which  they 
had  to  sell.  As  this  aberration  of  sight  has  been  the 
cause  of  grave  errors  on  railways,  the  companies'  sur- 
geons at  present  are  most  particular  in  testing  on  this 
point  the  candidates  for  employment.  Dr.  Favre,  at 
Perrache,  stated  that  the  number  of  applicants  whom 
he  had  been  obliged  to  refuse  because  they  were  in- 
capable of  distinctly  telling  a  green  light  from  a  red 
one,  was  very  considerable." 

Before  ending  this  chapter,  it  may  be  as  well 
to  suggest  that  whenever  any  difficulty  is  found  in 
•seeing  clearly,  no  time  should  be  lost  in  applying  to 
the  best  ophthalmic  surgeon  within  reach.  Under 
no  circumstances  should  aid  be  sought  from  quacks,  or 


24  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

quack  medicines.  The  eye  is  a  most  delicate  organ, 
and  the  greatest  care  and  experience  are  required  in 
its  treatment.  It  seems  extraordinary  that  so  many 
persons  should  be  found  deliberately  to  disregard  the 
advice  of  educated  men,  whose  lives  are  devoted  to 
the  science  they  profess,  and  to  use  the  nostrums 
prescribed  by  persons  unacquainted  with  the  first 
principles  of  the  laws  of  health,  the  anatomy  of  the 
human  body,  and  the  nature  and  effects  of  drugs. 
Very  many  cases  have  come  under  the  notice  of  the 
writer,  in  which  persons  have  wasted  money,  ruined 
their  health,  and  irrevocably  deprived  themselves  of 
sight,  simply  from  believing  stories  told  them  about 
cures,  specially  manufactured  to  entrap  the  unwary. 

Since  the  invention  of  the  ophthalmoscope  the  pro- 
bability of  the  cure  of  blindness  has  greatly  increased, 
and  this  circumstance  affords  an  additional  reason 
why  not  a  moment  should  be  lost  in  arresting  disease 
in  the  eye  on  its  first  appearance. 

For  a  description  of  the  ophthalmoscope,  and  an 
account  of  some  remarkable  cures,  the  reader  is  re- 
ferred to  the  Appendix. 

Scolberg  well  says  that  long,  short,  or  weak  sight 
may  in  most  cases  be  easily  cured  by  the  use  of  proper 
glasses ;  and  that  the  number  of  the  required  lens 
should  be  accurately  fixed  by  a  medical  man,  and  not 
left  to  the  optician.  And  here  it  may  be  said  that  for 
the  history  of  spectacles  the  reader  is  referred  to  the 
Appendix.  It  is  worthy  of  remark  that  Locke,  the 
philosopher,  attributed  the  preservation  of  his  sight 
to  his  usually  drinking  nothing  but  water;  he  could 
read  all  sorts  of  books  by  candle-light  until  his  death, 
which  occurred  at  the  age  of  73. 

In  concluding  this  part  of  the  work,  it  cannot  be 
too  forcibly  urged  on  the  reader  that  fresh  air,  whole- 
some food,  moderate  work,  and  a  virtuous  life  are  the 
best  means  to  prevent  the  loss  of  sight.  It  is  true 
that  these  remarks  apply  to  every  ill  to  which  man 


THE    CAUSES    OF   BLINDNESS.  25 

is  liable,  but  they  are  more  especially  needful  to  be 
observed  in  the  preservation  of  the  delicate  and  va- 
luable organs  of  sight. 

The  observations  on  the  preservation  of  the  eyes 
contained  in  Mackenzie's  volume  of  '  Five  Thousand 
Receipts/  are  so  important  that  we  cannot  refrain 
from  inserting  them  here.  The  writer  says, — 

"1.  Never  sit  for  any  length  of  time  in  absolute 
gloom,  or  exposure  to  a  blaze  of  light.  The  reason  on 
which  this  rule  is  founded  proves  the  impropriety 
of  going  hastily  from  one  extreme  to  the  other, 
whether  of  darkness  or  of  light,  and  shows  us  that  a 
southern  aspect  is  improper  for  those  whose  sight  is 
weak  and  tender. 

"  2.  Avoid  reading  small  print,  and  straining  the 
eyes  by  looking  at  minute  objects. 

"  3.  Do  not  read  in  the  dusk,  nor,  if  the  eyes  be 
disordered,  by  candle-light. 

"  4.  Do  not  permit  the  eyes  to  dwell  on  glaring 
objects,  more  particularly  on  first  waking  in  the  morn- 
ing ;  the  sun  should  not,  of  course,  be  suffered  to 
shine  in  the  room  at  that  time,  and  a  moderate  quan- 
tity of  light  only  should  be  admitted.  For  the  same 
reasons,  the  furniture,  walls,  and  other  objects  of  a 
bedroom  should  not  be  altogether  of  a  white  or  glaring 
colour;  indeed,  those  whose  eyes  are  weak  would 
find  considerable  advantage  in  having  green  for  the 
furniture  and  prevailing  colour  of  their  bed-chambers. 
Nature  confirms  the  propriety  of  this  fact,  for  the 
light  of  the  day  comes  on  by  slow  degrees,  and  green 
is  the  universal  colour  she  presents  to  our  eyes. 

"  5.  Those  individuals  who  are  rather  long-sighted 
should  accustom  themselves  to  read  with  less  light, 
and  with  the  book  somewhat  nearer  to  the  eyes  than 
what  they  naturally  like ;  while  others,  that  are  rather 
short-sighted,  should  use  themselves  to  read  with 
the  book  as  far  off  as  possible.  By  these  means,  both 
will  improve  and  strengthen  their  sight,  while  a  con- 
trary course  increases  its  natural  imperfections." 


26  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 


USE  OF  SPECTACLES. 

"  From  whatever  cause  the  decay  of  sight  arises, 
an  attentive  consideration  of  the  following  rules 
will  enable  any  one  to  judge  for  himself  when  his 
eyesight  may  be  assisted  or  preserved  by  the  use 
of  proper  glasses  : — 

"1.  When  we  are  obliged  to  remove  small  objects 
to  a  considerable  distance  from  the  eye,  in  order  to 
see  them  distinctly. 

"2.  If  we  find  it  necessary  to  get  more  light  than 
formerly,  as,  for  instance,  to  place  the  candle  be- 
tween the  eye  and  the  object. 

"  3.  If,  on  looking  at,  and  attentively  considering 
-a  near  object,  it  fatigues  the  eye  and  becomes  confused, 
or  if  it  appears  to  have  a  kind  of  dimness  or  mist  be- 
fore it. 

11 4.  When  small  printed  letters  are  seen  to  run  into 
each  other,  and  hence,  by  looking  steadfastly  on  them, 
appear  double  or  treble. 

"  5.  If  the  eyes  are  so  fatigued  by  a  little  exercise, 
that  we  are  obliged  to  shut  them  from  time  to  time 
so  as  to  relieve  them  by  looking  at  different  objects. 

"  When  all  these  circumstances  concur,  or  any  of  them 
separately  takes  place,  it  will  be  necessary  to  seek 
-assistance  from  glasses,  which  will  ease  the  eyes,  and 
in  some  degree  check  their  tendency  to  become  worse ; 
whereas,  if  they  be  not  assisted  in  time,  the  weakness 
will  be  considerably  increased,  and  the  eyes  be  im- 
paired by  the  efforts  they  are  compelled  to  exert." 

ON  THE  TRAINING  OF  BLIND   CHILDREN. 

IN  treating  of  education  in  general,  Plato  says,  "  Is 
not  that  the  best  education  which  gives  to  the  mind 
;and  to  the  body  all  the  force,  all  the  beauty,  and  all 
the  perfection  of  which  they  are  capable  ?  " 


ON    THE    TRAINING   OP   BLIND    CHILDREN.  27 

On  undertaking  the  education  of  blind  children,  in 
addition  to  the  ordinary  rules  and  circumstances  which 
obtain  in  the  training  of  the  sighted,  it  is  useful  to 
bear  in  mind  that  the  principal  object  to  be  sought  is, 
so  to  develope  the  senses  of  hearing,  touch,  smell,  and 
taste,  and  so  to  expand  the  mind,  strengthen  the  judg- 
ment and  the  general  health  of  the  pupil,  that  the  loss 
of  sight  may  become  as  small  an  evil  as  possible.  In 
carrying  out  this  design  it  must  be  remembered  that 
success  is  as  often  prevented  by  parents  and  guardians 
doing  too  much  as  it  is  retarded  by  their  doing  too 
little.  As  the  health  of  the  body  is  dependent  to  a 
very  great  extent  on  the  condition  of  the  mind,  and  as 
the  mind  cannot  be  kept  in  health  unless  it  receives 
sufficient  variety  of  pleasing  impressions  through  the 
medium  of  the  external  senses,  it  is  important  that  the 
blind  infant  be  supplied  with  as  much  change  as  pos- 
sible, especially  as  the  sense  of  sight,  through  which 
the  greatest  number  of  impressions  are  usually  made 
on  the  brain,  is  wanting  in  his  case.  A  cheerful  nurse  is 
very  desirable  to  sing  to  the  child,  and  to  introduce  little 
things  for  its  amusement.  It  may  be  mentioned,  en 
passant,  that  it  is  particularly  desirable  that  the  blind 
child  should  be  suckled  by  its  own  mother,  as  it  usually 
requires  to  be  more  carefully  nourished  than  other 
infants.  Small  musical  toys  should  be  provided,  which 
the  child  should  be  encouraged  to  use  for  himself.  He 
should  be  taken  frequently  into  the  open  air,  and  if 
practicable,  should  be  allowed  to  hear  the  singing  of 
birds,  to  enjoy  the  sweet  scent  of  flowers,  etc. ;  he 
shoiild  early  be  accustomed  to  hear  vocal  and  instru- 
mental music ;  should  be  allowed  to  feel  all  kinds  of  ob- 
jects, and  should  be  told  the  names  of  whatever  he  heard 
or  felt ;  he  should  also  be  told,  as  his  age  increased,  the 
names  of  whatever  he  tasted,  and  of  the  odours  which 
attracted  his  attention.  Buffon  says,  "that  children 
should  be  allowed  the  free  use  of  their  hands  from  the 
moment  of  their  birth;"  and  if  this  be  true  with  regard 
to  children  in  general,  how  much  more  must  it  be  so 


28  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

in  the  case  of  those  without  sight,  who  should  be  en- 
couraged by  every  possible  means  to  develope  the 
faculties  they  possess,  in  order  that  they  may  feel  less 
painfully  the  want  of  the  sense  they  have  lost.  The 
blind  child  should  be  weaned  at  the  usual  age,  and  be 
allowed  to  walk  alone  by  the  chairs,  like  other  children. 
It  may  be  remarked,  however,  that  guards  should  be 
used  to  keep  him  from  fires,  stairs,  and  open  windows. 

The  faculty  of  speech  should  be  early  cultivated,  and 
as  soon  as  possible  the  child  should  be  induced  to  feed 
himself  with  a  spoon.  The  blind  infant  should  not  be 
allowed  to  sleep  more  than  other  children,  and  opiates 
of  all  kinds  should  be  studiously  avoided.  While  the 
heavy  affliction  from  which  the  child  suffers  makes  the 
parents  more  solicitous  over  their  charge,  this  solici- 
tude should  not  degenerate  so  as  to  cause  them  to 
indulge  their  offspring  to  his  injury,  for  an  over-kind 
parent  has  often  proved  the  greatest  enemy  the  blind 
person  has  ever  known. 

Wholesome  correction  should  not  be  withheld  be- 
cause the  child  is  without  sight,  but  it  should  never  be 
administered  in  anger,  and  should  be  rather  of  a 
moral  than  of  a  physical  nature.  The  punishment 
should  always  be  proportionate  to  the  offence,  that  the 
child-  may  thereby  acquire  ideas  of  justice ;  and  it 
should  be  borne  in  mind  that  indiscriminate  kindness  is 
as  bad  in  its  effects  as  unrelenting  harshness,  and  that 
those  parents  are  most  lastingly  revered  who  temper 
firmness  with  kindness.  When  the  child  is  about  four 
years  old,  it  will  be  well  for  him  to  be  taught  to  read 
by  raised  letters.  The  system  of  tangible  print  em- 
ployed may  be  the  common  English  or  Roman  alpha- 
bet ;  if,  however,  proper  elementary  books  for  children 
and  the  Holy  Scriptures  are  not  procurable  in  Roman 
type  large  enough  to  be  easily  felt,  it  will  be  better  to  use 
the  alphabet  generally  known  as  '  Moon's/  or  any  other 
that  can  be  easily  obtained,  provided  it  possesses  the 
essential  quality  of  being  easily  felt.  For  a  descriptive 


ON    THE    TRAINING   OP    BLIND    CHILDREN.  29 

account  of  the  different  systems  of  tangible  typography 
the  reader  is  referred  to  another  part  of  this  volume. 
Instances  have  occurred  of  blind  children  of  four-and- 
a-half  years  being  able  to  read  the  Bible  with  fluency, 
but  it  is  undesirable  to  seek  to  imitate  such  examples, 
for  prodigies  are  unnatural  beings,  who  die  before 
arriving  at  maturity,  or  who  only  reach  it  in  a  state  of 
mental  exhaustion  which  dooms  them  to  premature 
inanition.  What  is  to  be  sought  is  to  give  to  the  child 
a  healthy  body,  active  perceptive  organs,  and  a  sound 
mind ;  and  forcing  children  beyond  their  years  is  the 
surest  way  to  prevent  the  attainment  of  these  objects. 

The  importance  of  a  truly  religious  training  cannot 
be  over-estimated,  but  by  the  term  "  religious "  we 
would  not  be  understood  to  mean  "  sectarian/'  neither 
by  the  avoidance  of  the  word  "  sectarian "  would  we 
wish  to  imply  that  the  education  should  be  of  a  latitu- 
dinarian  character.  The  training  should  be  based  on 
the  love  of  God  to  man,  as  exhibited  in  his  every-day 
dealings  with  His  creatures,  and  as  revealed  in  the 
Bible.  For  the  blind  a  sound  and  healthy  religious 
education  is  even  more  important  than  for  the  sighted, 
inasmuch  as  the  privation  under  which  they  suffer 
exposes  them  to  many  evils  to  which  those  who  see  are 
not  so  liable.  We  know  that  it  has  often  been  said 
that  the  blind  are  not  as  amenable  to  temptation  as 
the  sighted,  but  whoever  reflects  for  a  few  minutes 
on  the  subject  will  perceive  that  the  special  temptation 
to  which  the  blind  are  liable  is  one  which  pervades 
their  whole  lives,  and  far  outweighs  any  advantage 
that  may  appear  to  exist  in  their  favour.  The  temp- 
tation in  question  is  the  following :  a  blind  person,  as 
soon  as  he  begins  to  think,  naturally  says  to  himself, 
"Why  am  I  made  to  differ  from  the  mass  of  mankind  ?" 
"Why  am  I  excluded  from  the  inestimable  blessing 
of  sight,  and  thereby  made  dependent  on  my  fellow- 
man  for  the  common  necessaries  of  life,  and  cut  off 
from  all  the  beauties  of  Nature,  and  why  am  I  sent 


30  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

into  the  world  to  be  mocked  by  blessings  which  I 
know  to  exist,  and  for  which  my  soul  unceasingly 
yearns,  but  from  the  enjoyment  of  which  I  am  for  ever 
shut  out  ?  "  This  is  but  one  of  a  thousand  forms  that 
temptation  assumes,  and  it  exerts  a  most  baneful  influ- 
ence on  every  blind  person  who  is  without  faith  in  God. 

How  great  then  must  be  the  importance  of  training 
children,  who  in  after-life  will  bo  exposed  to  so  great 
a  danger,  to  feel  that  "  the  Lord  is  loving  unto  every 
man,  and  that  His  mercy  is  over  all  His  works  "  ! 

The  beneficent  Creator  of  the  universe  has  endowed 
every  organized  being  with  powers  suited  to  the  duties 
required  of  him,  and  it  must  be  obvious  that  the 
highest  crime  that  can  be  committed  against  God  is 
to  murmur  that  He  has  not  made  us  with  different 
powers  to  those  we  possess.  No !  let  us  rather  de- 
velope  the  capabilities  conferred  upon  us,  that  we  may 
be  enabled  to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our 
hearts,  all  our  souls,  and  all  our  minds,  and  our  neigh- 
bour as  ourselves.  Let  us  do  this,  and  let  us  teach  our 
children  to  do  it,  and  we  shall  find  that  the  Author  of 
our  being  has  blended  happiness  with  duty,  and  that 
He  has  placed  us  on  earth  to  procure  as  much  enjoy- 
ment as  this  world  is  capable  of  affording,  and  also 
that  we  may  have  the  opportunity  of  being  prepared 
for  the  attainment  of  perfect  bliss  in  a  future  state  of 
existence. 

When  the  blind  child  asks  why  he  differs  from 
other  children,  let  not  his  question  be  evaded,  but  let 
him  be  told  that  God  has  enabled  some  persons  to  tell 
things  with  their  eyes,  and  that  others  cannot  do  so ; 
that  those  who  can  see  are  called  "sighted  persons/' 
or  people  who  see,  and  that  those  who  cannot  tell 
things  with  their  eyes  are  called  "  blind  persons ; " 
that  God,  who  made  both  the  sighted  and  the  blind, 
gave  to  each  of  them  the  means  of  doing  that  for  which 
He  made  them,  and  that  if  he,  the  child,  use  his  hands 
and  ears  rightly,  and  if  he  employ  his  thoughts  pro- 


ON    THE    TEA1NING    OF    BLIND   CHILDREN.  31 

perly,  lie  will  by-and-by  become  a  happy  and  a  good 
man. 

The  child  should  be  told  that  there  are  a  great  many 
blind  like  himself,  namely,,  in  the  British  Isles  about 
thirty  thousand,  and  probably  about  three  millions  in 
the  world.  He  should  also  be  told  of  the  deaf  and 
dumb,  of  the  lame,  etc.,  and  that  some  persons  can 
neither  hear,  speak,  nor  see.  This  information  in  all 
probability  will  lead  the  child  to  feel  thankful  that  he 
is  not  so  badly  off  as  some  others;  but  the  sub- 
ject should  not  be  dwelt  on  so  as  to  cause  melan- 
choly. Social  courtesy  should  not  be  lost  sight  of;  the 
child  should  be  early  taught  to  receive  visitors  in  a 
becoming  manner,  and  to  bow  or  curtsey  at  the  proper 
time,  and  especially  so  as  loss  of  sight  prevents  the 
blind  observing  the  custom  of  well-bred  people  in  this 
respect.  These  matters,  trivial  as  they  may  appear, 
exert  great  influence  on  the  well-being  of  every  blind 
person,  as  they  do  much  to  keep  him  from  being  cut 
off  from  society,  and  the  sooner  good  habits  are  formed, 
the  more  easily  are  they  practised.  The  child  should 
walk  alone  in  the  house  and  the  adjacent  grounds,  and 
should  carry  a  small  stick  to  enable  him  to  discover 
his  approach  to  a  step  or  other  object.  He  should  not 
be  allowed  to  form  habits  of  stooping,  putting  his 
knuckles  to  his  eyes,  playing  with  his  fingers,  etc., 
as  these  frivolities,  besides  tending  to  weaken  the 
mental  and  physical  powers,  have  great  influence  in 
making  sighted  persons  believe  that  idiocy  and  blind- 
ness are  in  some  way  connected.  Bad  customs,  when 
once  acquired,  are  very  difficult  to  eradicate ;  and  in- 
stances are  now  before  the  mind  of  the  author  in 
which  persons  having  acquired  some  of  the  evil  habits 
above  named,  have  found  it  impossible  ever  to  get  rid 
of  them,  although  they  possess  great  strength  of  will 
in  other  matters. 

A  knowledge   of   how   to   tell    different  kinds   of 
money  is   very  useful,    and  should   be    early  taught. 


32  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

Gold,  silver,  and  copper  coins  may  bo  distinguished 
by  the  difference  of  sound  when  let  fall  on  an  un- 
covered table.  All  copper  or  bronze  coins  have  smooth 
edges,  viz.  the  farthing,  the  halfpenny,  and  the  penny, 
and  these  may  be  told  from  each  other  by  the  size. 
All  gold  and  silver  coins,  with  one  exception,  have 
rough  or  milled  edges.  The  exception  is  the  three- 
penny-piece. 

Gold  may  be  known  from  silver  by  a  difference  in 
size  and  weight,  as  well  as  by  the  sound.  The  sove- 
reign on  being  laid  upon  a  shilling  will  be  found  rather 
smaller,  and  if  weighed  in  the  hand  will  feel  heavier. 
Perhaps  a  mistake  is  most  likely  to  occur  in  detecting 
a  half-sovereign,  as  its  resemblance  to  a  sixpence  is 
very  great,  the  difference  in  size  and  weight  being 
trifling.  The  milling  on  the  edge  of  the  half-sovereign, 
however,  is  finer,  and  when  sounded  the  difference  is 
at  once  perceived.  Some  persons  sound  money  on 
their  teeth,  but  this  is  dangerous,  as  it  might  lead  to 
a  piece  of  money  being  swallowed  ;  although  the  three- 
penny-piece and  the  farthing  have  both  smooth  edges, 
the  difference  in  size  and  sound  prevents  mistakes. 

Bad  money  may  be  told  either  by  sound,  by  yielding 
when  bitten  between  the  teeth,  or  by  being  raised  with 
a  small  magnet ;  all  bad  moneys  sound  differently  to 
good.  Counterfeit  coins  made  of  soft  metals  bend 
when  bitten,  those  composed  largely  of  iron  do  not 
bend,  but  they  can  be  taken  up  with  a  magnet.  Bank- 
notes cannot  be  told  without  sight,  there  is  some  pecu- 
liarity in  the  paper,  but  not  sufficient  to  be  relied  on. 

When  about  four  or  five  years  old  the  pupil  should 
commence  the  study  of  arithmetic,  both  mentally  and 
by  slate,  and  it  may  be  observed  that  a  description  of 
1  tangible  slates 3  will  be  found  in  another  part  of  this 
work. 

To  foster  habits  of  self-reliance,  the  child  should  be 
induced  gradually  to  acquire  the  power  of  attending 
to  his  own  toilet ;  this  is  not  by  any  means  difficult, 
and  if  a<>  the  commencement  only,  the  most  simple 


ON   THE    TRAINING    OP   BLIND    CHILDREN.  33 

offices  are  attempted,  it  will  not  be  long  before 
assistance  of  any  kind  will  be  unnecessary.  Nothing 
is  more  lamentable  than  to  see  a  young  man  of  twenty 
or  thirty  years  unable  to  wash  his  face,  dress  his  hair, 
or  tie  his  cravat.  Truly  !  kindness  which  leads  to  such 
helplessness  is  misnamed  indeed  !  and  if  parents  could 
but  realize  what  evils  they  inflict  on  their  offspring  by 
doing  for  them  those  things  which  they  are  well  able 
to  do  for  themselves,  they  would  forego  any  amount  of 
pleasurable  satisfaction,  and  would  be  willing  even  to 
do  things  which  might  appear  unkind,  rather  than  add 
to  an  affliction  which  in  itself  is  great  enough.  To 
acquire  the  ready  use  of  the  fingers  is  very  important, 
and  for  this  purpose  the  child  should  be  shown  how  to 
tie  knots  and  bows,  and  to  perform  simple  employ- 
ments like  netting,  knitting,  making  watch-guards, 
and  doing  bead-work.  Writing  should  be  commenced 
when  the  pupil  is  about  seven  or  eight  years  old,  and 
the  style  adopted  should  be  that  which  can  be  read 
both  by  the  blind  and  the  sighted,  a  description  of 
which  mode  will  be  given  in  another  part  of  this 
volume.  The  study  of  geography  should  also  be 
entered  upon  about  this  time  j  and  it  may  be  re- 
marked that  many  advantages  spring  from  Geography 
and  History  being  studied  in  connection  with  each 
other,  and  that  an  account  of  ' tangible  maps'  will 
be  found  in  the  division  of  this  work  appropriated 
to  that  object.  The  child  should  be  encouraged  to 
associate  with  sighted  children  of  the  same  age  and 
station  of  life  as  himself,  and  should  be  permitted  to 
join  in  common  recreations,  such  as  leap-frog,  touch, 
hoop-bowling,  skipping  with  a  rope,  shuttlecock, 
marbles,  etc.  etc.,  and  even  the  sports  of  sliding  and 
snow-balling  should  not  be  forbidden,  as  they  greatly 
tend  to  strengthen  the  system,  and  to  give  a  correct 
idea  of  distance.  Riding  on  horseback,  when  attain- 
able, will  be  found  of  great  service,  and  gymnastic 
exercises  are  much  to  be  commended.  The  indoor 


34  BLINDNESS   AND    THE   BLIND. 

amusements  of  '  la  solitaire,*  fox  and  geese,  dominoes., 
draughts,  back-gammon,  and  chess,  etc.  may  be  pro- 
secuted with  advantage,  and  cards  can  be  used  by 
those  who  do  not  think  that  familiarity  with  them 
may  lead  to  future  evil.  It  may  be  mentioned  that  a 
description  of  the  appliances  used  by  the  blind  for 
these  games  is  given  at  another  part  of  this  book. 
When  the  state  of  the  weather  prevents  out-door 
exercise,  dumb-bells  may  be  used  with  advantage. 
Perhaps,  however,  the  greatest  resource  in  the  way  of 
amusement  is  to  be  found  in  the  practice  of  music. 
This  art  should  be  carried  out  as  far  as  possible,  but 
it  should  never  be  allowed  to  interfere  with  the  ac- 
quisition of  general  knowledge,  and  the  use  of  music 
as  a  pleasurable  relaxation  should  not  be  confounded 
with  its  cultivation  as  a  profession.  Owing  to  the 
fondness  of  the  blind  for  music,  it  is  common  for 
parents  when  they  find  their  child  attached  to  it,  to 
suppose  that  he  has  a  special  musical  talent ;  this  is 
usually  a  mistake,  and  is  often  productive  of  great 
evil.  It  is  natural  perhaps  for  parents  to  fall  into  this 
error,  as  they  have  not  the  opportunity  of  comparing 
their  children  with  others  suffering  from  the  same 
privation. 

The  choice  of  a  profession  is  a  most  important 
subject,  but  it  should  not  be  settled  until  the  child  has 
turned  twelve  years  old.  The  pianoforte  and  the  con- 
certina are  well  fitted  to  be  studied  for  amusement,  and 
the  cultivation  of  vocal  music  is  of  the  highest  im- 
portance. Wind  instruments  are  injurious,  especially 
to  the  young,  as  their  use  enfeebles  the  nervous  system. 
While  on  the  subject  of  relaxation  it  may  be  as  well  to 
remark  that  the  most  reliable  authorities  agree,  that 
children  should  not  be  allowed  to  study  more  than 
foUi.*  hours  a  day.  A  great  deal  of  useful  information, 
however,  may  be  obtained  through  the  medium  of 
pleasurable  amusements. 

Blind  children  should  be  taken  to  zoological  ex- 


ON    THE    TRAINING    OF    BLIND    CHILDREN.  35 

hibitions,  as  a  good  idea  can  be  formed  of  the  lion, 
tiger,  hyena,  etc.  from  sound,  particularly  if  the 
keeper  feeds  them,  which  he  will  specially  do  on  receipt 
of  a  small  gratuity;  he  will  also  take  care  to  make 
the  animals  roar,  laugh,  etc.  Of  the  elephant  a  good 
notion  may  be  gained  by  feeling  and  mounting  him. 

By  handling  stuffed  lions  and  other  animals  that 
cannot  be  felt  alive,  their  size  and  shape  may  be  ascer- 
tained; and  for  this  purpose  admission  to  museums 
should  be  obtained  whenever  practicable.  Many  rare 
plants  may  be  examined  by  touch  without  injury  at 
botanical  gardens,  and  the  pleasure  derived  from  the 
varied  perfumes  will  be  an  additional  source  of  enjoy- 
ment. Some  verses  entitled,  "  The  blind  boy  is  at  play, 
mother,"  and  other  similar  poems  will  be  found  in  the 
Appendix.  The  following  has  been  found  a  very  amusing 
and  instructive  way  of  imparting  information  :  Let  the 
blind  child  examine  by  touch  a  sheep,  or  any  other 
animal  or  thing.  If  a  sheep,  let  him  be  told  that  when 
it  was  young  it  was  called  '  a  lamb ;'  that  the  flesh  of 
sheep  is  named  '  mutton/  Show  the  child  a  thread  of 
worsted,  a  piece  of  broadcloth,  and  a  piece  of  coarse 
paper  made  from  woollen  rags ;  and  after  having  shown 
him  a  sheepskin  mat,  direct  attention  to  leather,  a 
pair  of  shoes,  etc.  Show  him  knife -handles  made  of 
bone,  also  some  glue,  parchment,  and  catgut.  Explain 
the  nature  of  the  various  manufactures  connected  with 
these  articles,  likewise  tell  him  about  making  size,  and 
to  illustrate  the  use  of  catgut,  let  him  hear  a  tune  on 
the  violin.  These  examples  will  show  the  pupil  how 
much  is  produced  from  one  animal,  and  no  judicious 
preceptor  will  neglect  the  opportunity  afforded  by  the 
above  subject  to  exhort  his  pupil  to  observe  how  good 
God  has  been  to  mankind  in  providing  them  with 
sheep.  The  lesson  might  be  carried  farther  by  re- 
ferring to  the  names  given  to  the  persons  occupied  in 
the  various  trades  connected  with  the  same  animal, 
such  as  the  grazier,  shepherd,  farmer,  butcher,  fell- 

D  2      - 


36  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

monger,  wool-stapler,  spinner,  weaver,  cloth  manufac- 
turer, and  the  merchant;  the  tailor,  tanner,  currier, 
shoemaker,  saddle  and  harness  maker,  bone-dealer, 
the  pelterer,  glue-maker,  parchment  and  size  maker, 
paper-maker,  the  stationer,  the  musician,  and  the  rag- 
and-bone  man  of  the  streets.  It  may  also  be  pointed 
out  where  the  best  sheep  are  raised,  and  in  what  places 
the  manufactures  above  named  are  chiefly  carried  on. 
This  mode  of  instruction  is  calculated  to  give  the  pupil 
such  an  insight  into  the  utility  of  knowledge  as  will  be 
most  beneficial  to  him  in  after  life.  Of  course  the 
study  may  be  extended  to  the  tools  and  implements 
used  in  the  various  employments ;  and  it  may  here  be 
observed  that  it  cannot  be  too  constantly  borne  in  mind 
•  that  the  object  of  education  is  to  stimulate  thought  and 
not  to  supersede  it,  which  is  often  done  where  merely 
cramming  the  pupil  is  all  that  is  sought.  And  it  should 
never  be  forgotten  that  the  points  to  be  aimed  at  in  the 
education  of  the  young  are,  (1)  to  induce  them  to  per- 
ceive ;  (2)  to  think ;  (3)  to  speak ;  (4)  to  read ;  (5)  to 
write ;  (6)  to  maintain  themselves ;  and  (7)  to  relieve 
the  necessities  of  their  fellow-creatures;  all  these  to 
be  done  as  God  has  directed,  for  Christian  principle  is 
the  basis  of  all  good.  A  tolerable  idea  of  form  and 
figure  may  be  obtained  from  examining  by  touch 
models  of  buildings  and  ships,  also  stuffed  birds,  and 
statuary.  Pictures  printed  in  relief  are  scarcely  of 
any  use  to  the  blind,  as  the  impressions  they  convey 
are  very  erroneous.  An  instance  of  the  utility  of 
studying  sculpture  is  afforded  by  the  following  cir- 
cumstance : — A  gentleman  who  had  lost  his  sight  in 
infancy  visited  an  exhibition  of  statuary,  by  eminent 
masters,  accompanied  by  some  seeing  friends.  He 
examined  several  busts  by  touch.  The  first  he  said 
was  very  ugly,  when  he  was  astonished  on  being  told 
that  it  was  an  exact  representation  of  an  eminent 
statesman  whose  name  we  omit.  The  second  he  knew 
by  the  abundance  of  hair  on  the  head  and  its  absence 


ON    THE    TEAINING   OP   BLIND    CHILDEEN.  37 

on  the  face  to  be  a  woman,  but  the  size  of  the  nose 
and  the  features  surprised  him,  and  he  exclaimed, 
"  This  is  far  from  being  a  handsome  woman." 

"  That,"  said  a  friend,  "  is "  (naming  a  lady, 

more  remarkable  for  benevolent  works  than  for  per- 
sonal beauty).  The  next  was  the  bust  of  an  eminent 
poet,  and  our  blind  friend  complained  of  the  small- 
ness  of  the  nose.  It  now  appeared  as  if  nothing 
would  please  him,  but  he  felt  a  fourth  figure  and 
cried  out,  "This  is  my  beauty;"  this  proved  to  be 
the  bust  of  the  Lady  in  Milton's  Comus.  It  may  be 
remarked  that  during  the  examination  the  name  of  the 
person  represented  by  the  bust  was  never  mentioned 
until  after  the  blind  gentleman  had  given  his  opinion, 
and  that  in  all  cases  his  views  were  endorsed  by  his 
sighted  friends. 

As  a  rule,  the  general  health  of  the  blind  is  less 
robust  than  that  of  other  persons ;  this  is  often  caused 
by  the  calamity  that  produced  blindness  having  oc- 
casioned other  evils  to  the  system  besides  that  of 
loss  of  sight.  Frequently  also  the  medical  treat- 
ment used  in  endeavouring  to  recover  vision  pro- 
duces permanent  injury  to  the  constitution.  Perhaps, 
however,  the  chief  causes  of  the  absence  of  high 
health  in  the  blind  may  be  found  in  restricted  physical 
exertion,  and  the  want  of  sufficient  variety  of  im- 
pressions of  the  outer  world  being  made  on  the  brain, 
from  which  evils  all  persons  must  necessarily  suffer 
who  are  without  the  sense  which  possesses  the  greatest 
perceptive  range.  To  so  great  an  extent,  indeed,  do 
the  blind  suffer  from  a  deficiency  of  external  im- 
pressions, that  while  with  the  sighted  the  principal 
object  of  education  is  to  cultivate  the  reflective  powers, 
in  the  case  of  the  blind  the  aim  should  be  to  develope 
the  perceptive  faculties.  It  is  not  intended  on  the 
present  occasion  to  enter  minutely  into  the  means  best 
adapted  to  produce  robust  health,  under  the  conditions 
above  described,  but,  it  may  be  remarked  that  a  large 


38  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

amount  of  open-air  exercise  is  of  the  highest  import- 
ance. 

The  blind  youth  should  early  be  encouraged  to  de- 
tect the  footfall  and  other  movements,  and  to  tell 
whether  the  person  approaching  him  is  a  man  or 
woman,  a  boy  or  girl,  and  to  distinguish,  as  far  as  may 
be,  the  age  of  different  persons  by  their  firm  or  falter- 
ing steps,  etc.  Also  to  know,  by  the  cultivated  or 
awkward  tread,  the  social  condition  of  a  person,  viz. 
whether  he  is  a  labourer,  or  a  member  of  the  more 
cultivated  classes.  In  the  further  pursuit  of  these 
studies,  the  sense  of  smell  will  be  found  a  valuable 
auxiliary  to  that  of  hearing,  but  for  further  remarks  on 
this  sense,  we  must  refer  our  readers  to  another  page. 
To  dine  in  public,  without  attracting  the  attention  of 
the  company,  is  a  most  difficult  accomplishment  for  any 
one  without  sight,  and  it  is  especially  so  for  those  who 
have  been  blind  from  infancy.  We  even  find  that  a 
lady  so  well  educated  as  Miss  Anna  Williams,  the  blind 
authoress,  and  friend  of  Dr.  Johnson,  failed  in  this 
respect,  for  Boswell  remarks,  in  his  life  of  Dr.  John- 
son (fourth  edition,  vol.  iii.  page  26),  that  he  (John- 
son) "  sometimes  incommoded  many  of  his  friends  by 
carrying  her  with  him  to  their  houses,  where,  from  her 
manner  of  eating  in  consequence  of  her  blindness,  she 
could  not  but  offend  the  delicacy  of  persons  of  nice 
sensations."  In  our  own  day,  examples  of  the  same 
kind  are  not  rare ;  and  it  is  said,  on  the  best  authority, 
that  one  who  occupies  a  most  exalted  station  is  so- 
much  at  a  loss  at  table,  that  he  has  a  servant  behind  his 
chair,  who  puts  a  long  fork  under  his  arm  to  place  the 
food,  so  that  he  may  be  guided  to  it.  Attention,  how- 
ever, to  a  few  simple  rules,  with  a  little  perseverance, 
will  soon  enable  a  blind  person,  of  average  ability,  to 
dine  in  public  without  attracting  particular  remark. 

Our  student  should  sit  at  table  exactly  like  other 
persons.  When  a  plate  is  put  before  him,  he  should 
ascertain,  by  aid  of  his  knife  and  fork,  the  relative 


ON    THE    TRAINING    OP   BLIND    CHILDREN.  39 

positions  of  the  meat  and  vegetables ;  he  should  then 
turn  the  plate,  so  that  the  meat  may  be  towards  the  left- 
hand  ;  the  outer  edge  of  the  meat  should  be  felt  by 
the  knife  and  fork,  and  the  fork  should  be  put  into 
the  meat  about  half  an  inch  from  the  edge,  the  dis- 
tance being  measured  by  feeling  delicately  with  the 
knife,  which,  at  the  same  time,  should  keep  the  meat 
steady  while  the  fork  is  entering  it.  The  diner  is  then 
•enabled  to  cut  the  meat  close  to  the  fork,  and  thus  to 
tell  the  size  of  the  piece  before  removing  it  from  the 
plate.  To  guard  against  anything  being  left  hanging 
to  the  piece  which  is  being  taken  from  the  plate,  the 
knife  should  be  passed  gently  round  the  piece  when 
it  has  been  raised  an  inch  or  two,  and  if  anything  is 
found  adhering  to  it,  it  should  be  entirely  separated 
before  the  piece  is  taken  from  the  plate.  The  same 
observations  apply  to  vegetables,  but  in  general,  that 
kind  of  food  is  more  easily  managed  than  meat  or 
poultry.  Salt,  etc.,  should  be  put  on  the  left  of  the 
plate.  Whenever  it  can  be  done,  only  those  parts  of 
a  joint  should  be  given  to  the  blind  person  which  he 
really  likes;  if  he  cannot  take  fat,  there  should  be  none 
put  011  his  plate.  Fish,  and  some  other  kinds  of  food, 
are  difficult  to  manage  gracefully,  but  the  number  of 
dishes  of  which  our  student  may  partake  in  public 
must  be  left  to  his  own  discretion ;  we  think,  however, 
that  enough  has  been  said  to  point  out  the  way  in 
•which  this  matter  may  be  successfully  carried  out  by 
any  one  who  really  means  to  overcome  the  difficulties 
^connected  with  it.  The  pupil  should  be  taught  to 
move  his  hands  with  precision,  so  as  to  place  them  at 
once,  and  without  hesitation,  on  whatever  article  he 
may  require.  The  importance  of  this  cannot  be  over- 
estimated, as  it  is  a  matter  which  affects  almost  every 
action  of  life,  and  one,  moreover,  in  which  the  blind 
are  very  liable  to  fall  short.  "  A  place  for  everything, 
and  everything  in  its  place,"  should  be  his  motto, 
and  care  should  be  taken  to  foster  this  habit  in  youth 
•as  much  as  possible. 


40  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

The  pupil  should  early  be  instructed  in  the  method 
of  telling  the  time  by  touch  on  a  watch  or  clock.  For 
this  purpose,  a  card  or  wooden  dial-plate,  with  movable 
hands  and  raised  figures,  would  be  found  useful ;  but 
if  this  is  not  at  hand,  the  face  of  an  old  clock  or  watch 
may  be  employed.  The  first  thing  the  student  requires 
to  know  is  the  part  of  the  timepiece  at  which  the  figure 
12  is  placed;  he  should  then  be  told  to  put  the  timepiece 
so  that  the  figure  12  is  from  him,  which  would,  cause 
the  6  to  be  nearest  to  him,  the  3  on  his  right-hand,  and 
the  9  on  his  left.  The  figure  1  would  be  the  first  to 
the  right  of  the  12,  the  2  to  the  right  of  the  3,  the  4  to 
the  left  of  the  3,  the  5  to  the  right  of  the  6,  the  7  to 
the  left  of  the  6,  the  8  to  the  right  of  the  9,  the  10  to 
the  left  of  the  9,  and  the  11  to  the  left  of  the  12.  The 
distance  these  figures  are  from  each  other  will  depend 
on  the  circumference  of  the  face  of  the  timepiece  em- 
ployed, but  a  little  practice  will  soon  accustom  the 
pupil  to  the  space  occupied  by  each  of  the  twelve  divi- 
sions of  the  circle,  and  he  will  soon  perceive  when  the 
short  hand  points  to  a  given  figure,  and  will  thereby 
be  informed  of  the  hours.  He  will  also,  with  equal 
ease,  detect  the  indications  of  the  long  hand,  by  re- 
membering that,  when  it  is  at  12,  the  hour  is  finished ; 
when  at  1  it  is  5  minutes  past,  at  2, 10  minutes,  and 
when  at  3  that  it  is  a  quarter-past ;  when  at  4,  20 
minutes  past,  at  5,  25  minutes  past,  at  6,  half-past,  at 
7,  25  minutes  to,  at  8,  20  minutes  to,  at  9,  a  quarter 
to,  at  10,  10  minutes  to,  and  at  11,  5  minutes  to  the 
hour.  By  increased  practice,  the  divisions  between 
the  figures  will  be  accurately  determined,  so  that  the 
time  may  frequently  be  told  even  to  a  minute.  Of 
course,  the  use  of  a  repeating  watch  would  dispense 
with  the  necessity  of  feeling  the  hands,  but  it  occupies 
a  great  deal  of  time,  and  is  never  preferred  by  any  one 
who  has  once  adopted  the  common  mode. 

The  remarks  that  have  been  made  on  education  in 
this  work,  apply  equally  to  the  blind  of  every  class  of 


ON    THE    BLIND   CHILDREN    OP    THE    POOE.  41 

society  under  the  age  of  fourteen,  and  are  only  limited 
in  their  application  by  the  means  possessed  of  carrying 
them  out.  It  will  now,  however,  be  desirable  to  make 
a  few  observations  on  matters  which  affect  only  some 
one  particular  body  of  persons.  As  by  far  the  greater 
number  of  the  blind  belong  to  the  poorer  classes  of 
society,  we  shall  proceed,  in  the  first  place,  to  make 
some  suggestions  on  the  treatment  of  blind  children 
whose  parents  are  poor,  and  we  shall  then  offer  a  few 
observations  on  the  training  of  children  belonging  to 
the  upper  classes. 


ON   THE  BLIND   CHILDREN   OF  TIIE  POOR. 

What  the  feelings  of  a  parent  in  the  humble  walks 
of  life  must  be  on  finding  his  child  hopelessly  blind 
may  more  readily  be  imagined  than  described.  His 
child  for  ever  helpless,  dependent  on  others  for  the 
common  necessaries  of  life,  cut  off  from  the  enjoyment 
of  every  blessing  this  world  can  give  and  for  ever  de- 
pendent on  his  father  and  mother  who  can  barely  by 
dint  of  the  most  arduous  labour  procure  daily  bread; 
and  even  when  the  warmth  of  parental  affection  nerves 
the  father  and  mother  to  the  firm  resolve  that  their 
poor  sightless  child  shall  never  want  a  home  while 
they  have  hands  to  work,  even  then  comes  the  crush- 
ing thought  of  "  Oh  !  when  we  are  dead  what  will  our 
poor  boy  do  ?"  "  What  will  become  of  our  poor  blind 
child  ?"  Yes  !  these  are  thoughts  which  must  con- 
vulse the  heart  of  every  parent  worthy  of  the  name  on 
finding  himself  in  such  a  painful  position,  and  when 
two  or  more  children  in  the  same  family  are  without 
vision  (which  is  more  frequently  the  case  than  is  gene- 
rally supposed),  how  crushing  must  be  the  calamity ! 
How  overwhelming  the  situation  !  But  the  position, 
distressing  as  it  is,  is  not  as  dark  as  it  appears. 

The   above  reflections,   though    true,   are   only   so 


42  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

to  a  limited  extent,  for,  by  the  blessing  of  God  on 
man's  efforts,  these  calamities  may  be  almost  entirely 
averted. 

Courage,  then,  afflicted  father  !  Courage,  then,  de- 
sponding mother !  Your  heavenly  Father  has  not  left 
you  without  cause  for  hope.  If  your  child  is  not 
blessed  with  sight,  yet  God  has  given  him  faculties 
which  may  be  cultivated  so  that  the  evils  you  dread 
may  be  altogether  averted.  How  then,  it  may  natu- 
rally be  asked,  is  this  to  be  done  ?  The  answer  is 
briefly  this  : — Do  what  you  can  for  your  child  during 
the  years  that  he  is  with  you  at  home,  and  seek  the 
aid  of  the  benevolent  institutions  that  exist  for  the 
assistance  of  the  blind. 

While  the  child  is  at  home,  the  suggestions  made 
in  the  previous  article  under  the  head  of  "The  Train- 
ing of  Blind  Children"  should  be  carried  out  as  far  as 
possible,  and  the  blind  boy  or  girl  should  be  made 
useful  in  household  matters,  by  being  employed  in 
cleaning  knives  and  forks,  candlesticks,  fire-irons,  and 
other  articles  of  furniture ;  and  here  we  may  insert  a 
remark  which  may  be  found  useful,  viz.  that  when  a 
blind  person  stoops  to  pick  up  anything,  he  should 
not  put  his  head  forward,  as  persons  generally  do,  but 
should  bend  his  knees  as  females  do  in  making  a  curt- 
sey, this  will  prevent  him  striking  his  head  against 
anything  that  may  be  in  the  way. 

The  child  should  be  allowed  to  make  himself  of  use 
by  going  alone  short  distances  on  errands.  Every 
advantage  should  be  taken  of  parochial  day  and  Sun- 
day schools,  as  much  oral  information  may  be  acquired 
in  them,  especially  if  the  teachers  are  kindly  disposed 
and  take  an  interest  in  their  blind  pupils.  Books  in 
raised  letters  may  be  procured  from  the  "  British  and 
Foreign  Bible  Society,"  London;  or  from  "The  As- 
sociation for  Promoting  the  General  Welfare  of  the 
Blind,"  210,  Oxford  Street,  near  Portman  Square,  W., 
.and  125  and  127,  Euston  Eoad,  London,  N.W. 


EDUCATION    OF   THE    BLIND    OP    THE    UPPEE    CLASSES.      43 

In  some  of  the  larger  towns,  persons  from  charitable 
societies  visib  the  blind  at  their  own  homes  to  teach  them 
to  read.  It  is  very  important  that  the  child  should 
be  encouraged  to  attend  regularly  a  place  of  worship. 
When  his  friends  cannot  accompany  him,  he  should 
be  induced  to  go  alone,  for  nothing  is  so  well  calcu- 
lated to  afford  comfort  under  affliction  as  the  revealed 
will  of  God ;  and  although,  perchance,  the  heart  of  the 
blind  child  may  be  light  and  joyous,  yet  in  riper  years 
he  will  need  all  the  comfort  that  Christianity  can  give 
to  shield  him  from  the  assaults  of  the  powers  of  evil, 
who  will  be  ever  tempting  him  to  repine  at  the  priva- 
tion which  God  in  infinite  wisdom  has  imposed  on 
him ;  and  it  cannot  be  too  often  remembered  that 
habits  formed  in  youth  are  generally  permanent,  so 
that  he  who  has  been  accustomed  to  do  what  is  good 
when  a  boy  will  in  all  probability  do  the  same  on  be- 
coming a  man.  When  all  is  done  that  can  be  accom- 
plished for  the  blind  child  of  the  poorer  classes  at  his 
home,  it  will  indeed  be  very  little  compared  with  what 
he  requires,  and  the  parents  must  therefore  seek  ad- 
mission for  their  son  or  daughter  to  one  of  the  institu- 
tions for  the  education  and  employment  of  the  blind, 
of  which  establishments  there  are  forty-six  in  Great 
Britain  and  Ireland. 


THE  EDUCATION  OF  THE  BLIND   OF  THE  UPPER 
CLASSES. 

The  question  of  imparting  to  the  youthful  blind  of 
the  upper  classes  an  education  suited  to  their  condi- 
tion is  a  matter  of  such  great  importance  that  it  may 
very  well  excite  surprise  that  scarcely  any  attention 
has  hitherto  been  paid  to  the  subject. 

No  human  being,  however  favoured  by  social  posi- 
tion, was  created  to  be  a  useless  inhabitant  of  the 
world,  and  he  who  cares  for  the  happiness  of  his  off- 


44  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

spring,  the  good  of  mankind,  or  the  commandments 
of  God,  will  not  allow  secondary  considerations  to  in- 
terfere with  his  duty  as  the  parent  of  a  blind  child. 

The  paths  of  usefulness  open  to  the  blind  of  the 
upper  classes  are  neither  few  nor  unimportant;  in- 
deed there  is  scarcely  any  branch  of  science  that  has 
not  been  adorned  by  the  labours  of  the  sightless.  To 
prove  this  statement,  reference  need  only  be  made  to 
the  pages  of  this  work  devoted  to  biography,  where 
it  will  be  seen  that  the  blind  have  distinguished  them- 
selves in  the  following  positions,  viz.  musicians,  teach- 
ers of  languages  and  mathematics ;  lecturers  on  che- 
mistry, mechanics,  and  kindred  subjects;  writers  on 
military  science,  poets,  historians,  journalists,  solici- 
tors, barristers,  magistrates,  clergymen,  sculptors,  and 
statesmen,  etc.  etc. 

In  undertaking  to  provide  for  the  training  of  a 
blind  child,  the  first  thing  to  be  desired  is  to  give 
him  an  education  equal  to  that  obtained  by  the  sighted 
of  his  own  social  grade.  To  do  this  in  the  case  before 
us,  the  great  point  to  be  aimed  at  is  to  give  him  the 
special  instruction  he  needs  as  a  blind  youth,  without 
in  any  way  cutting  him  off  from  the  collegiate  advan- 
tages enjoyed  by  his  sighted  compeers ;  to  do  this,  all 
that  is  necessary  is  that  a  professor  connected,  say 
with  King's  College,  London,  should  make  himself 
acquainted  with  matters  connected  with  the  education 
of  the  blind,  and  should  then  open  his  house  for  the 
admission  of  blind  pupils,  in  the  same  way  that  gen- 
tlemen connected  with  such  colleges  undertake  the 
care  of  other  students.  If  the  professor  in  question 
also  had  sighted  pupils,  so  much  the  better,  as  com- 
petition on  fair  terms  is  what  the  blind  require,  in- 
stead of  suppression  or  absorption.  An  usher  might 
be  kept  specially  to  attend  to  the  blind,  in  a  mixed 
establishment,  should  such  a  course  be  found  desi- 
rable. It  is  obvious  from  this  plan  that  while  the 


EDUCATION    OF   THE    BLIND    OP   THE    UPPER   CLASSES.     45 

blind  would  obtain  all  that  is  required  for  their  parti- 
cular instruction,  they  nevertheless  would  possess  the 
incalculable  advantage  of  attending  daily  at  the  col- 
lege and  joining  with  their  sjghted  fellow-students  in 
the  classes  and  lectures  connected  with  university 
training ;  they  would  learn  the  same  lessons  and  com- 
pete for  the  same  prizes  and  honours,,  and  form  those 
friendships  so  important  to  success  in  life. 

Several  attempts  have  been  made  to  establish  semi- 
naries of  greater  or  less  pretensions  for  the  education 
of  the  well-to-do  and  wealthy  blind,  but  they  all  pos- 
sess the  radical  defect  of  not  connecting  the  blind 
with  the  great  educational  establishments  of  the  land ; 
and  the  sooner  some  enlightened  university-professor 
opens  his  doors  in  the  way  above  described,  the  sooner 
will  an  opportunity  be  afforded  to  those  deprived  of 
sight  of  the  upper  classes  of  obtaining  a  really  liberal 
education. 

For  a  description  of  various  appliances  connected  with 
the  special  instruction  of  the  blind,  our  readers  are  re- 
ferred to  another  part  of  this  volume.  It  may  be  observed 
that  the  foregoing  remarks  apply  solely  to  the  blind 
of  the  middle  and  upper  classes,  and  that  it  would 
be  unwise  for  any  one  to  suppose  because  he  is  with- 
out sight,  and  feels  himself  possessed  of  some  talent, 
that  therefore  he  will  meet  with  consideration  and  in- 
dulgence at  the  hands  of  the  public.  Such  ideas  are 
nearly  sure  to  meet  with  nothing  but  bitter  disappoint- 
ment. Blindness  is  such  a  privation  that  it  needs  all 
the  accessories  of  wealth  and  station  to  enable  those  suf- 
fering from  it  to  compete  successfully  with  their  equals 
in  the  social  scale,  who  enjoy  the  blessings  of  sight. 

There  are  paths  of  usefulness  for  all,  be  they  poor  or 
wealthy,  distinguished  or  obscure ;  and  he  who  endea- 
vours to  make  the  best  of  what  God  has  given  him,  be 
it  little  or  much,  does  all  in  this  respect  that  is  required 
of  him.  To  be  really  useful  is  what  should  be  sought, 
not  to  gratify  personal  vanity  and  be  considered  a 


46  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

prodigy,  but  simply  to  do  the  will  of  God,  and  love  all 
men ;  and  it  should  never  be  forgotten  that  it  is  virtue 
alone  and  not  dress  or  titles  that  can  ennoble  or  adorn 
the  human  character.  Some  very  poor  youths  without 
sight  have  reached  great  eminence,  but  they  have 
always  been  assisted  by  the  liberality  of  the  wealthy, 
who  have  looked  on  them  as  prodigies ;  but  as  the 
time  for  looking  on  an  intelligent  blind  youth  as  a 
prodigy  has  long  since  passed  away,  he  will  save  him- 
self no  end  of  pain  and  mortification  who  keeps  his 
hopes  within  his  sphere,  and  who  aims  only  at  the  lofty 
ambition  of  doing  what  is  right.  But  we  have  di- 
gressed, and  now  return  to  the  subject  indicated  by 
the  title  at  the  head  of  this  chapter,  simply  to  say, 
that  in  the  vast  arena  of  usefulness  in  which  the  blind 
of  the  upper  classes  are  placed,  it  is  required  of  them 
by  the  Giver  of  all  Good  that  they  devote  some  share 
of  their  attention  to  the  condition  of  those  who  have 
the  privation  of  blindness  aggravated  by  the  far  greater 
evil  of  continuous  biting  poverty. 

As  the  lives  of  the  eminent  characters  to  be  found 
in  this  volume  furnish  far  greater  incentives  to  exer- 
tion, and  speak  more  forcibly  on  the  subject  in  hand 
than  anything  that  could  be  said  here,  we  close  these 
remarks  by  recommending  the  careful  study  of  those 
chapters  to  the  blind  and  their  friends. 


THE   SENSES. 

In  considering  the  nature  and  effects  of  Blindness  it  is 
of  the  highest  importance  duly  to  bear  in  mind  the 
constitution  and  offices  of  man's  corporeal  powers. 
The  corporeal  senses  may  be  denned  as  the  means 
whereby  we  receive  impressions  from  the  various 
objects  and  things  by  which  we  are  surrounded. 

The  physical,  or  corporeal  senses  are  usually  considered 


THE    SENSES.  47 

to  be  the  following  : — Sight,  Hearing,  Touch,  Smell, 
and  Taste. 

It  has  been  well  said  by  Dr.  Mackenzie,  that  the 
function  of  the  eye  is  to  distinguish  colours,  and  by 
means  of  the  colours  reflected,  or  emitted  by  surround- 
ing objects,  to  enable  us  to  recognize  their  presence, 
forms,  sizes,  positions,  distances,  and  motions.  The 
immediate  instrument  of  visual  perception — light,  pos- 
sessing a  diversity  of  colours,  and  being  presented  to 
the  eye  in  different  degrees  of  intensity,  produces  par- 
ticular impressions  on  the  nerve  of  vision.  Da  vies 
remarks,  with  great  acuteness,  that  nine  things  to 
sight  required  are,  the  power  to  see,  the  light,  the 
visible  thing,  being  not  too  small,  too  thin,  too  high,, 
too  far,  clear  space  and  time,  the  form  distinct  to  being. 
And  the  celebrated  Dr.  Reid  observes,  that  of  the 
faculties  called  the  five  senses,  sight  is,  without  doubt, 
the  noblest.  The  rays  of  light  which  minister  to  this 
sense,  and  of  which  without  it  we  could  never  have 
had  the  least  conception,  are  the  most  wonderful  and 
astonishing  part  of  the  inanimate  creation.  Dr.  Wil- 
son says  the  organ  or  instrument  of  hearing  is  in  all 
its  most  important  parts  hidden  within  the  head ;  that 
we  cannot  perceive  its  construction  by  a  mere  external 
inspection.  What  in  ordinary  language  we  call  the 
ear,  is  only  the  outer  porch,  or  entrance  vestibule  of 
a  curious  series  of  intricate  sounding  passages,  which, 
like  the  lobbies  of  a  great  building,  lead  from  the  outer 
air  into  the  inner  chambers.  Certain  of  these  passages 
are  full  of  air,  others  are  full  of  liquid,  and  their  mem- 
branes are  stretched  like  parchment  curtains  across 
the  corridors  at  different  places,  and  can  be  thrown 
into  vibration,  or  made  to  tremble,  as  the  head  of  a 
drum,  or  surface  of  a  tambourine  does  when  struck 
with  a  stick  or  the  fingers.  Between  two  of  these 
parchment-like  curtains  a  chain  of  very  small  bones 
extends,  which  serves  to  tighten  or  relax  these  mem- 


48  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

branes,  and  to  communicate  vibrations  to  them.  In 
the  innermost  place  of  all,  rows  of  fine  threads,  called 
nerves,  stretch  like  the  strings  of  a  piano,  from  the 
last  points  from  which  the  tremblings  or  thrillings 
reach  and  pass  inwards  to  the  brain.  If  these  threads 
or  nerves  are  destroyed,  the  power  of  hearing  as  infal- 
libly departs,  as  the  power  to  give  out  sound  is  lost  by 
a  piano  or  violin  when  the  strings  are  broken.  The 
following  description  is  given  of  hearing  by  Quincey, 
viz. : — "  Sound  is  nothing  but  a  certain  undulation  of 
the  external  air,  which  being  gathered  by  the  external 
air,  beats  as  is  supposed  upon  the  membrana  tympana, 
which  moves  the  four  little  bones  in  the  tympanum,  in 
like  manner  as  it  is  beat  by  the  external  air.  These 
little  bones  move  the  internal  air  which  is  in  the  tym- 
panum and  vestibulum,  which  internal  air  makes  an 
impression  upon  the  auditory  nerve  as  the  labyrinth 
and  cochlea,  according  as  it  is  moved  by  the  little 
bones  in  the  tympanum.  So  that  according  to  the 
various  reflections  of  the  external  air,  the  internal  air 
makes  various  impressions  upon  the  auditory  nerve, 
the  immediate  organ  of  hearing,  and  these  different 
impressions  represent  different  sounds."  According  to 
Dr.  Reid  the  ear  is  capable  of  perceiving  four  or  five 
hundred  vibrations  of  tone  in  sound,  and  probably  as 
many  different  degrees  of  strength.  By  combining 
these,  we  have  above  20,000  simple  sounds,  and  we 
may  conceive  a  prodigious  variety  in  the  same  sound 
or  tone,  arising  from  the  irregularity  of  it.  Dr.  Henry 
Lawson  writes  as  follows,  on  the  sense  of  touch : — 
"  When  we  bring  the  ends  of  our  fingers  into  contact 
with  any  object,  an  impression  is  immediately  produced 
upon  the  surface  of  the  skin  which  is  applied  to  the 
object,  and  this  impression  being  conveyed  by  the 
sensitive  nerves  to  the  spinal  cord  and  brain,  an  idea 
concerning  the  surface  of  the  thing  felt  is  forthwith 
formed  by  the  mind, — we  say  we  have  felt  it.  It  is  soft 
or  hard,  or  smooth,  or  rough,  according  to  circum- 


THE    SENSES.  49 

stances.  The  power  which  we  thus  possess  of  conceiv- 
ing of  the  nature  of  surface,  without  the  aid  of  the  eye, 
is  called  '  the  faculty  of  touch/  The  faculty  is  seated 
in  the  skin  generally,  but  particularly  in  the  skin  of 
the  fingers.  It  is  not,  however,  possessed  by  the  skin, 
but  by  certain  structures  in  it,  which  communicate 
with  the  terminations  of  the  truly  sensitive  nerves, — to 
be  plain,  it  resides  in  the  extremities  of  those  nerves." 
Dr.  Reid  also  remarks  that  by  '  touch'  we  perceive  not 
one  quality  only  but  many,  and  these  of  very  different 
kinds.  The  chief  of  them  are  heat  and  cold,  hardness 
and  softness,  roughness  and  smoothness,  figure,  soli- 
dity, motion  and  extension ;  and  Dr.  Wilson  says  that, 
"  touch  has  the  largest  apparatus  of  all  the  senses,  for 
though  we  are  in  the  habit  of  speaking  of  it  as  localized 
in  the  fingers,  it  reigns  throughout  the  body,  and  is 
the  token  of  life  in  every  part.  The  hand  is  emphati- 
cally the  organ  of  touch,  not  merely  because  the  tips 
of  the  fingers,  besides  being  richly  endowed  with  those 
nerves  which  confer  sensitiveness  upon  the  skin  of  the 
whole  body,  possess  in  addition  an  unusual  supply  of 
certain  minute  auxiliary  bodies  called  '  tactile  corpus- 
cles' but  because  the  arrangement  of  the  thumb  and 
fingers,  and  the  motions  of  the  wrist,  elbow  and  arm, 
give  the  hand  a  power  of  accommodating  itself  spon- 
taneously to  surfaces  which  no  other  part  of  the  body 


' '  The  organ  of  smell,"  remarks  Dr.  Wilson,  "  we  are 
apt  to  regard  more  as  an  ornamental  than  a  useful  ap- 
pendage to  our  faces.  So  useless,  indeed,  do  a  large 
portion  of  mankind  esteem  it  to  be  that  they  have  con- 
verted it  into  a  snuff-box ;  it  was  given  us,  however, 
for  a  different  purpose."  Dr.  Henry  Lawson  observes, 
that  "  the  sense  of  smell  is  seated  in  the  nostrils,  and 
there  are  certain  cavities  contained  in  that  organ  fami- 
liarly known  as  '  the  nose.'  The  nose  is  a  kind  of  irre- 
gularly-shaped box  with  four  openings — two  outer 

E 


50  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

ones  above  the  upper  lip,  and  two  inner,  placed  in  the 
expansion  of  the  gullet,  called  '  pharynx/ 

"The  nose  is  divided  within  by  a  vertical  partition 
into  two  distinct  compartments,  and  each  of  these  is 
further  divided  (partially)  by  transverse  walls  of  bony 
tissue,  which  spring  from  its  sides.  The  entire  surface 
of  these  osseous  walls  is  clothed  by  a  soft,  velvety, 
mucous  membrane,  bountifully  supplied  with  blood- 
vessels, and  having  numerous  small  glands  imbedded 
in  its  substance.  To  it  are  also  supplied  hosts  of  fila- 
ments of  nervous  tissue,  which  stream  down  from  the 
'  olfactory  bulbs/  and  are  the  organs  through  which  the 
impressions  of  odours  are  conveyed  to  the  cerebrum." 
And  Davies  also  writes  as  follows  : — 

"  Next  in  the  nostrils  she  doth  use  the  smell, 

As  God  the  breath  of  life  in  them  did  give : 
So  makes  he  now  his  power  in  them  to  dwell, 
To  judge  all  airs  whereby  we  breathe  and  live." 

According  to  Dr.  Wilson,  "  the  organ  of  taste  is  ge- 
nerally held  to  be  synonymous  with  the  tongue,  but 
in  reality  the  throat  and  the  nostril  are  as  much  con- 
cerned as  the  tongue,  in  the  perception  of  taste.  The 
power  of  these  portions  of  the  body  to  distinguish 
savours  mainly  depends,  as  in  the  case  with  the  eye 
and  the  ear,  upon  their  connection  with  the  brain, 
through  those  fine  white  cords  which  have  been  al- 
ready referred  to  as  called  '  nerves/  "  Dr.  Reid  re- 
marks, "  that  it  is  probable  that  everything  that 
affects  the  taste  is  in  some  degree  soluble  in  the 
saliva;"  and  on  this  subject  Davies  has  the  following 
lines  : — 

"  The  body's  life  with  meats  and  air  is  fed ; 

Therefore  the  soul  doth  use  the  tasting  power, 
In  veins  which,  through  the  tongue  and  palate  spread, 
Distinguish  ever  relish  sweet  and  sour." 


THE    SENSES.  51 


SIGHT. 

The  angle  of  vision  taken  in  by  tlie  fixed  eye  is  110 
-degrees,  and  the  nearest  distance  at  which  a  good  eye 
•can  see  clearly  is  six  inches,  while  under  favourable 
circumstances  an  expanse  of  twenty,  thirty,  forty,  or 
even  a  hundred  miles  is  brought  within  its  cogni- 
zance. 

The  following  observations  by  Mr.  Glaisher,  the 
eminent  natural  philosopher,  contained  in  a  description 
-of  one  of  his  remarkable  balloon-ascents,  from  the 
grounds  of  the  Crystal  Palace,  Sydenham,  are  well 
worthy  of  deep  attention  : — 

"  At  the  height  of  three  and  four  miles  the  view  was 
indeed  wonderful, — the  plan-like  appearance  of  London 
and  suburbs,  the  map-like  appearance  of  the  country 
generally,  then  running  the  eye  down  the  winding 
Thames,  the  white  cliffs  at  Margate  and  on  to  Dover. 
Brighton  was  seen  and  the  sea  beyond.  All  the  coast- 
line was  clear  up  to  Yarmouth.  Looking  towards 
Windsor,  the  Thames  was  like  burnished  gold,  and 
the  surrounding  water  like  bright  silver.  Looking 
towards  Putney,  the  rippling  of  the  water  along  the 
banks  of  the  river  was  distinctly  seen.  Railway 
trains  were  the  only  moving  objects  visible,  and 
they  looked  like  some  creeping  thing  (caterpillar- 
like),  and  the  steam  was  like  a  narrow  line  of  ser- 
pentine mist.  Taking  a  grand  view  over  the  whole 
visible  plain  beneath,  I  was  struck  with  its  regularity ; 
the  view  did  not  seem  natural,  it  was  too  even,  ap- 
parently artificial. 

"All  the  ships  looked  very  diminutive,  but  were 
visible  beyond  the  Medway  at  5  o'clock.  We  could 
plainly  distinguish  Greenwich  Park  as  a  small  garden, 
and  the  Eoyal  Observatory  as  a  grey  speck.  The 
Green  Man  Hotel,  Blackheath,  was  quite  distinct; 
all  the  docks  were  mapped  out,  and  every  object 

E  2 


52  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

of  moderate   size   was   seen   clearly  with   the   naked 
eye." 

Surprising  as  the  visual  organs  are  in  their  natural 
state,  their  powers,  when  aided  by  science,  may  truly 
be  said  to  be  miraculous.  By  aid  of  the  telescope  and 
the  microscope,  millions  of  miles  of  space  are  brought 
within  the  range  of  the  human  eye,  while,  at  the  same 
time,  it  can  examine  at  its  pleasure  the  structure  of 
animals  so  minute  that  hundreds  may  be  held  on  the 
point  of  a  needle.  But  this  most  potent  sense,  like 
everything  human,  has  its  defects.  Of  all  the  physical 
powers,  it  is,  perhaps,  most  open  to  deception.  Who- 
ever has  witnessed  the  tricks  of  a  juggler,  and  seen  a 
pudding  made  in  a  hat,  an  indescribable  number  of 
things  brought  out  of  a  very  small  parcel,  a  man  swal- 
lowing live  coals,  in  short,  everything  made  into  no- 
thing, and  nothing  made  into  everything,  must  have 
felt  sadly  humiliated  to  find  that  his  much  vaunted 
sense  of  sight  was  not  only  insufficient  to  save  him 
from  such  delusions,  but  was  itself  the  very  means  of 
making  him  an  easy  dupe  to  the  deception.  Sight 
has  great  difficulty  in  discerning  objects  that  are 
themselves  transparent ;  and  here  we  may  state  a  fact 
which  forcibly  illustrates  this  remark,  and  at  the  same 
time  shows  how  inferior  sight  is  to  touch  under  some 
circumstances.  A  lady  with  very  good  sight,  well 
known  to  the  writer,  put  her  hand  through  a  pane  of 
glass,  under  the  belief  that  she  was  putting  it  out  of 
an  open  window ;  the  glass  was  unusually  clear,  as  it 
had  been  recently  cleaned.  A  very  simple  experi- 
ment will  show  the  reader  how  easily  sight  may  be 
imposed  upon: — "Take  a  piece  of  pasteboard  about 
five  inches  square,  roll  it  into  a  tube,  with  one  end 
just  large  enough  to  fit  round  the  eye,  and  the  other 
end  rather  smaller.  Hold  the  tube  between  the  thumb 
and  finger  of  the  right  hand  (do  not  grasp  it  with 
the  whole  hand),  put  the  larger  end  against  the  right 
eye,  and  with  the  left  hand  hold  a  book  to  the  side 


THE    SENSES.  53 

of  the  tube.  Be  sure  you  keep  both  eyes  open,  and 
there  will  appear  to  be  a  hole  through  the  book,  and 
objects  seen  as  if  through  the  hole  instead  of  through 
the  tube.  The  right  eye  sees  through  the  tube,  and 
the  left  sees  the  book,  and  the  two  appearances  are 
so  confounded  together  that  they  cannot  be  sepa- 
rated. The  left  hand  can  be  held  against  the  tube 
instead  of  a  book,  and  the  hole  will  seem  to  be  through 
the  hand."  Experiments  made  to  ascertain  what  colours 
are  most  quickly  and  easily  perceived  by  the  eye,  seem 
to  show  that  bright  yellow  is  the  colour  most  readily 
distinguished,  and  that  colour  is  therefore  suggested 
for  railway  signals.  Sight  perceives  the  nature  of  an 
object  at  a  glance,  and  afterwards  recognizes  the  details 
of  the  parts  composing  it,  but  touch,  being  more  re- 
stricted in  its  power,  has  to  feel  the  parts  one  by  one 
before  deciding  on  the  nature  of  the  object  examined ; 
G.  <j.,  let  a  full-sized  statue  be  placed  before  a  sighted 
man  and  before  a  blind  man,  and  the  former  will  im- 
mediately recognize  it,  whereas  the  latter  must  proceed 
to  feel  the  face,  the  hands,  the  shoulders,  the  legs,  etc., 
before  he  can  determine  whether  it  is  the  complete 
figure  of  a  man,  or  whether  it  is  only  his  head  placed 
on  a  pedestal,  or  upon  the  body  of  a  beast ;  and  this 
not  only  holds  good  in  the  case  of  large  objects,  but 
it  is  also  true  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  with  respect 
to  figures  of  every  size  and  kind, 

SIGHT  AS  A  HEALTH-GIVER. 

Sight  is  not  only  the  principal  sense  through  which 
information  is  obtained,  it  is  also  a  very  powerful  agent 
in  reinvigorating  man  after  mental  and  physical  exhaus- 
tion. Let  the  student,  or  the  artisan,  who  has  been 
•engaged  for  a  long  time  in  continuous  exertion,  observe 
the  effect  on  his  feelings,  exercised  by  his  looking  for 
a  few  minutes  into  a  bustling  thoroughfare.  The 


54  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

variety  of  colour,  form,  position,  and  incident,  unite  to> 
exert  on  his  mind  a  most  pleasing  sense  of  reinvigora- 
tion.  The  ordinary  observer  is  not  aware  of  this  cir- 
cumstance, but  the  more  the  subject  is  examined,  the 
stronger  will  be  the  conviction  that  sight  is  a  great 
promoter  of  health  and  happiness;  even  when  the 
range  of  vision  is  confined  to  a  small  room,  the  mind 
is  often  cleared,  and  the  imagination  steadied,  by  simply 
looking  round  the  apartment.  The  action  is  so  common 
that  persons  are  not  aware  of  its  effect ;  they  glance  at 
objects  around  them  and  receive  benefit,  just  as  they 
inspire  air  to  maintain  life  ;  and  as  so  little  is  thought 
of  the  latter  operation,  it  is  no  wonder  that  the  former 
passes  unrecognized.  If  sight,  then,  be  a  great  health- 
giving  agent,  what  must  be  the  effect  of  its  absence  ?' 
Theory  and  practice  alike  show  that  excessive  mental 
and  bodily  toil  are  more  injurious  to  the  blind  than  to 
the  sighted.  The  question,  therefore,  naturally  arises, 
can  anything  be  done  to  lessen  this  effect  ?  And  it 
may  be  answered  in  brief,  that,  as  the  health-giving 
power  of  sight  depends  on  its  ability  to  communicate 
pleasurable  sensations,  its  want  in  the  blind  may  be 
best  supplied  by  cultivating  the  means  of  enjoyment 
still  left  to  them.  These  means  are  hearing  reading, 
music,  conversation,  feeling  a  variety  of  natural  and 
artificial  objects,  reading  by  touch,  inhaling  fresh  air 
and  the  scent  of  flowers,  and  enjoying  with  a  friend 
a  walk  sufficiently  brisk  to  expand  the  physical  powers. 
The  company  of  a  friend  is  essential  to  the  latter  en- 
joyment, as  the  action  of  a  blind  person,  when  walking 
alone,  is  so  constrained  by  his  endeavours  to  keep  out 
of  danger,  that  there  is  generally  in  the  exercise  almost 
an  entire  absence  of  pleasure. 

The  means  of  enjoyment  above  named  being  much 
inferior  to  those  obtained  through  the  agency  of  sight,, 
constant  variety  is  indispensable. 


THE    SENSES.  55 


HEARING. 

It  lias  been  said  that  the  extent  of  a  blind  man's 
observation  is  confined  to  the  space  he  can  compass 
with  his  two  arms ;  this  is  incorrect.  The  writer  of 
the  paragraph  evidently  forgot  the  power  of  the  sense 
of  hearing,  which  brings  the  mind  into  communication 
with  very  distant  objects,  and  even  possesses  certain 
advantages  over  the  sense  of  sight,  e.  g.,  by  the  ear 
objects  may  be  perceived  in  the  thickest  darkness, 
whereas  light  is  essentially  necessary  to  enable  the 
eye  to  perform  its  duties;  then,  again,  the  interven- 
tion of  any  opaque  substance,  be  it  ever  so  thin, 
renders  sight  useless,  whereas  the  ear  detects  what  is 
passing  on  the  other  side  of  a  moderately  thick  wall. 
If  it  were  not  for  man's  ingenuity  in  producing  arti- 
ficial light,  sight  would  be  useless  to  the  human  race 
during  half  the  span  of  existence,  but  hearing  is  ever 
active  without  the  assistance  of  art. 

Mr.  Glaisher,  in  one  of  his  balloon  ascents,  heard  the 
roar  of  the  London  traffic  when  more  than  a  mile 
above  the  city,  and  the  sound  of  falling  rain  on  trees 
when  one  thousand  feet  above  the  earth. 

The  way  in  which  the  American  Indians  make  use 
of  their  ears  on  the  prairies  is  too  well  known  to  need 
repetition.  The  report  of  large  guns  may  be  heard 
for  several  miles,  and  this  has  often  given  notice  of  a 
fierce  fight,  when  the  eye  was  altogether  powerless  in 
the  matter. 

Aristotle,  who  was  physician  to  Alexander  the  Great, 
invented  for  his  master  a  trumpet  which  was  capable, 
it  is  said,  of  conveying  orders  to  generals  at  the  dis- 
tance of  one  hundred  stadia,  about  twelve  miles. 

Sound  varies  slightly  in  speed  according  to  the 
density  of  the  atmosphere,  being  more  rapidly  trans- 
mitted in  warm  than  in  frosty  weather.  The  clearest 
voice  to  a  deaf  man  is  that  which  is  deep  and  soft ; 
and  it  has  been  remarked  by  a  judicious  writer  that, 


56"  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

"We  are  Lardly  aware,  until  we  have  lost  it,  how 
much  we  rely  on  the  sense  of  hearing  to  protect  us 
from  danger.  How  difficult  it  is,  for  example,  to  cross 
a  London  thoroughfare  in  safety  by  the  aid  only  of 
the  eyes;  how  much  sound  aids  us  in  avoiding  a  crowd, 
a  falling  tile,  a  shutter  rising  out  of  the  pavement,  etc. ! " 
A  German  philosopher  has  said  that  while  sight  is 
the  clearest,  hearing  is  the  deepest  of  the  senses.  The 
one  is  the  favourite  vehicle  and  stimulus  of  emotion, 
the  other  of  intellect.  Certainly  music  appeals  more 
directly  to  feeling  than  painting :  the  tones  of  the 
voice  are  the  truest  expression  of  sentiment  and 
character ;  the  sounds  of  nature,  the  wailing  and  sigh- 
ing of  the  wind,  the  notes  of  birds,  the  murmurs  of 
bees  affect  the  feelings  more  profoundly  and  myste- 
riously than  colour  and  form. 

THE  EFFECTS  OF  DARKNESS  AND  SILENCE,  BLIND 
ANIMALS,  ETC. 

In  the  cave  or  grotto  of  Adelsberg,  about  thirty 
miles  from  Trieste,  in  Austria,  the  effect  of  darkness  is 
shown  in  the  production  of  a  race  of  worms  without 
eyes,  called  the  Proteus  anguinus  ;  and  the  same  kind 
of  worm  is  found  in  the  Mammoth. Cave,  in  Kentucky, 
America,  an  account  of  a  visit  to  which  may  not  be 
uninteresting.  A  writer  in  the  '  Chicago  Tribune'  gives 
an  account  of  some  observations  made  by  Dr.  H.  Kails 
Smith  during  a  visit  to  the  Mammoth  Cave  for  pur- 
poses of  scientific  research.  Dr.  Smith  reports  the 
permanent  inhabitants  of  the  cave  to  be  not  only  blind 
and  deaf,  but  without  eyes,  or  even  the  trace  of  an 
orbit  or  an  optic  nerve,  and,  it  is  presumed,  without 
the  organ  of  hearing.  So  much  for  the  effects  of  the 
awful  darkness  and  stillness  of  the  cave  upon  its 
regular  inhabitants  !  The  effect  is  of  the  same  kind 
on  its  occasional  visitor.  The  following  are  the  words 


THE    SENSES.  57 

of  the  correspondent  of  the  '  Chicago  Tribune  :' — "  Dr. 
Smith  on  one  occasion  penetrated  about  four  miles 
into  the  interior  of  the  cave,  and,  at  some  four  hundred 
feet  below  the  surface  of  the  earth,  remained  '  solitary 
and  alone '  for  a  considerable  length  of  time,  in  the 
midst  of  impenetrable  darkness,  and  of  a  silence  ago- 
nizing to  a  degree  difficult  of  conception  to  those  who 
have  not  made  a  similar  experiment.  The  effect  upon 
him,  he  states,  was  very  distressing,  and  almost  insup- 
portable, resulting  in  a  very  perceptible,  although 
temporary,  defection  of  hearing  and  aberration  of  mind. 
The  cause  of  this  is,  no  doubt,  to  be  attributed  to  the 
total  absence  of  phenomena,  such  as  vibrations  of 
light,  etc.  etc.,  to  which  we  are  accustomed  so  as  to 
render  them  a  necessary  stimulus  for  the  proper  pre- 
servation of  the  animal  economy,  as  well  as  for  the 
normal  performances  of  the  functions  of  the  senses." 
The  writer  adds,  "Persons  who  have  been  lost  in 
the  Mammoth  Cave,  for  one,  two,  or  three  days,  have 
always  been  found,  when  rescued,  in  a  state  of  tem- 
porary insanity  ;  and  when  approached  by  the  party  or 
parties  sent  to  their  relief,  they  invariably  endeavoured 
to  hide  themselves,  and  thus  elude  observation."  Sup- 
posing all  this  to  be  true,  it  suggests  the  lesson  which 
the  writer  deduces  from  the  facts,  that  it  is  bad  for  the 
eyes,  or  ears,  or  any  other  organ  to  be  unused,  or  but 
partially  subjected  to  the  influence  of  its  peculiar 
stimulus.  It  is  very  remarkable  to  find  that  by  the 
exercise  of  some  unknown  power  the  Prot&u-s  can  per- 
ceive when  a  light  is  near,  and  tries  to  avoid  it.  We 
believe  that  there  are  at  present  in  the  Dublin  Museum 
four  living  specimens  of  the  Proteus  anguinus  from 
the  Mammoth  Cave  of  Kentucky.  These  specimens 
somewhat  resemble  the  shape  of  fish,  and  are  described 
as  being  transparent,  without  colour,  and  possessing  a 
total  absence  of  visual  organs.  The  natural  powers  of 
living  beings  deteriorate  for  want  of  exercise,  the  idle 
hand  becomes  weak,  and  sometimes  it  is  even  seized 


58  BLINDNESS   AND    THE   BLIND. 

•with  paralysis.  The  mental  powers  in  like  manner 
decay  for  want  of  use.  In  the  Mammoth  Cave  is  a 
race  of  blind  rats  with  remarkably  large  eyes;  all 
the  other  animals  in  the  cave  have  no  eyes,  and 
this  seems  to  show  that  the  rats  came  originally  from 
the  surface  of  the  earth,  and  that  their  progeny  lost 
the  power  of  sight  on  account  of  not  using  their 
eyes. 


THE  SENSE  OF  TOUCH. 

Touch  is  the  only  sense  which  pervades  the  whole 
body, — direct  contact,  however,  is  necessary  for  its 
exercise.  The  more  sensitive  parts  of  the  body  are  the 
soles  of  the  feet,  the  palms  of  the  hands,  the  tips  of  the 
fingers,  especially  the  fore-finger,  the  tip  of  the  tongue, 
and  the  lips.  Persons  having  thick  skins  or  corpulent 
bodies  possess  the  sense  of  touch  to  a  less  degree  than 
those  not  having  such  developments.  Some  writers 
maintain  that  the  touch  of  the  negro  is  inferior  to  that 
of  the  white  man,  but  as  far  as  our  experience  goes  we 
have  found  the  African  quite  equal  in  this  respect  to 
members  of  the  Circassian  race.  The  soles  of  the  feet 
are  so  sensitive  that  the  nature  of  the  ground  over 
which  a  cultivated  blind  man  walks  can  be  felt  through 
his  boots. 

The  tip  of  the  tongue  is  employed  by  many  females 
without  sight  to  press  thread  through  the  eye  of  a 
needle.  The  lips  are  so  sensitive  that  they  are  often 
used  to  verify  the  perceptions  of  the  fingers,  and  an 
anecdote  is  well  authenticated  of  a  West  Indian  negro 
girl  who  having  lost  the  power  of  reading  with  her 
fingers,  found,  when  in  the  act  of  kissing  her  embossed 
Bible,  that  she  could  read  with  her  lips,  which  practice 
she  afterwards  followed.  The  present  writer  has  tried 
this  experiment  with  perfect  success,  but  inconvenience 
of  position,  and  interference  with  respiration  will  prevent 


THE    SENSES.  59> 

lips  superseding  fingers,  notwithstanding  that  they 
possess  superior  sensibility. 

It  may  be  observed  that  although  absence  of  sight 
gives  increased  power  of  touch,  and  also  presents 
additional  motives  for  its  exercise,  yet  the  sense  of 
feeling  may  be  cultivated  to  a  very  high  degree  by 
sighted  persons.  An  anecdote  is  related  of  John 
Brown,  the  celebrated  American  champion  of  the 
negro,  that  when  in  England,  happening  to  dis- 
course of  various  qualities  of  wool,  to  the  amaze- 
ment of  the  company  he  undertook  and  successfully 
performed  the  feat  of  distinguishing  by  touch  the  most 
intricate  differences  of  quality,  he  having  at  the  same 
time  a  thick  bandage  over  his  eyes;  and  it  may  be  re- 
marked that  one  branch  of  the  shoe-trade  depends  so 
entirely  upon  touch  that  it  is  called  by  the  expressive 
name  of  '  blind- stabbing.'  In  surgery  also,  and  many 
of  the  higher  professions,  and  occupations,  a  practi- 
tioner with  delicate  touch  has  a  decided  advantage 
over  his  less  fortunate  competitors. 

Telling  colours  with  the  fingers  is  a  fallacy,  which 
has  become  widely  spread  through  the  deception  of 
interested  persons.  All  that  touch  can  do  is  to  dis- 
tinguish between  surfaces ;  it  cannot  feel  rays  of 
light;  and  as  colour  is  a  combination  of  rays,  and 
makes  no  alteration  in  the  surface  of  an  object,  touch 
cannot  deal  with  it.  If  the  colouring  matter  employed 
in  any  operation  possesses  any  tactual  peculiarity,  such 
peculiarity  can  be  detected  by  the  fingers,  but  the 
colour  itself  cannot  be  detected.  If  any  one  doubts 
this,  let  him  colour  water  in  several  ways,  putting  each 
particular  colour  into  a  separate  vessel,  then  challenge 
tile  colour-professor  to  put  his  hand  into  the  various 
waters,  and  name  their  colours.  The  remarks  on  this 
subject  by  C.  Bell,  author  of  the  celebrated  work  on 
the  '  Hand/  are  so  apposite  that  we  cannot  forbear 
transcribing  them.  He  says,  "  When  an  individual  is- 
deprived  of  the  organs  of  sight,  no  power  of  attention,. 


60  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

or  continued  effort  of  the  will,  or  exercise  of  the  other 
senses,  can  make  him  enjoy  the  class  of  sensations 
which  is  lost.  The  sense  of  touch  may  be  increased  in 
an  exquisite  degree;  but  were  it  true,  as  has  been 
asserted,  that  individuals  can  discover  colours  by  the 
touch,  it  could  only  be  by  feeling  a  change  upon  the 
surface  of  the  stuff,  and  not  by  any  perception  of  the 
colour.  It  has  been  my  painful  duty  to  attend  on 
persons  who  have  pretended  blindness,  and  that  they 
could  see  with  their  fingers.  But  I  have  ever  found 
that  by  a  deviation  from  the  truth  in  the  first  instance, 
they  have  been  entangled  in  a  tissue  of  deceit;  and 
have  at  last  been  forced  into  admissions  which  demon- 
strated their  folly  and  weak  inventions.  I  have  had 
pity  for  such  patients  when  they  have  been  the  sub- 
jects of  nervous  disorders  which  have  produced  ex- 
traordinary sensibility  in  their  organs, — such  as  a  power 
of  hearing  much  beyond  our  common  experience. 
This  acuteness  of  sensibility  having  attracted  high 
interest  and  admiration,  has  gradually  led  them  to 
pretend  to  powers  greater  than  they  actually  possessed. 
In  such  cases  it  is  difficult  to  distinguish  the  symptoms 
of  disease  from  the  pretended  gifts  which  are  boasted 
of."  (Bridgewater  Treatise,  page  193.) 


'  SMELL. 

Smell,  though  less  honoured  than  the  other  senses, 
is  nevertheless  exceedingly  useful,  and  is  productive  of 
a  great  amount  of  pleasure,  as  it  is  also  of  consider- 
able pain.  It  being  the  true  wisdom  of  the  blind  to 
utilize  every  faculty  to  the  highest  degree,  the  sense  of 
smell  is  to  them  of  no  inconsiderable  importance.  By 
its  aid  they  judge  of  the  quality  of  many  articles,  to 
deal  with  which  the  other  senses  are  incapable.  The 
habits,  occupations,  and  social  standing  of  an  in- 


THE    SENSES.  61 

dividual  may  frequently  be  detected  by  the  means  of 
this  sense,  in  proof  of  which  the  following  instance 
may  be  named  : — 

The  writer,  himself  blind,  said  one  morning  to  a 
workman,  "  You  have  had  a  red  herring  for  break- 
fast, you  have  smoked  a  pipe  of  tobacco,  and  you  have 
just  lighted  a  fire."  These  three  things  he  smelt  in 
quick  succession;  and  the  circumstance  is  the  more 
remarkable  as  the  man  had  carefully  washed  after 
breakfast  and  lighting  the  fire. 

On  entering  a  shop  he  said  to  the  person  in  attend- 
ance, "  You  have  had  fish  here ;  "  the  attendant  said 
they  had  not,  and  that  he  could  not  smell  any.  The 
blind  man  still  insisted  that  there  must  have  been 
some  in  the  shop.  At  length  the  attendant  remem- 
bered that  a  lady  had  been  to  pay  a  bill  who  lived  in  a 
house  adjoining  a  fishmonger's. 

TASTE. 

Considering  how  much  of  our  enjoyment  in  this 
world  is  derived  from  the  pleasures  of  the  table,  it 
must  be  owned  that  great  injustice  is  done  to  the 
sense  of  taste  by  the  thanklessness  with  which  we 
receive  its  benefits.  If  it  were  not  for  the  services 
of  this  sense  we  should  have  extreme  difficulty  in  in- 
ducing ourselves  to  partake  of  sufficient  nutriment  to 
sustain  life ;  and  when  we  remember  the  grateful 
flavours  that  the  commonest  articles  have  for  the  taste 
that  is  unvitiated  by  indulgence,  we  can  but  admire 
the  beneficence  of  the  Creator,  who  has  made  nothing 
in  vain.  It  can  hardly  be  said  that  the  sense  of  taste 
is  of  any  special  use  to  the  blind ;  as,  however,  their 
physical  enjoyments  are  comparatively  few,  their  temp- 
tations to  indulgence  in  this  respect  are  proportionately 
increased,  and  the  knowledge  of  this  should  induce  the 
blind  to  guard  carefully  against  the  allurements  of  the 
palate. 


2  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

The  infirmity  above  named  too  often  shows  itself  in 
the  well-to-do  by  over-indulgence  in  the  pleasures  of 
the  table ;  and  in  the  case  of  the  poor  it  leads  them  to 
frequent  the  ale-house,  and  when  they  have  not  the 
means  to  buy  drink,  it  impels  them  to  beg.  The  temp- 
tations of  the  palate  are  strong,  and  are  increased  in 
power  by  indulgence ;  and  as  their  gratification  not 
only  pleases  the  organs  of  taste,  but  also  becomes  the 
means  of  introducing  their  possessor  into  society — thus 
giving  him  the  pleasure  of  conversation,  which  is  per- 
haps valued  as  the  greatest  enjoyment  by  those  de- 
prived of  sight, — the  liability  of  the  blind  to  fall  under 
the  power  of  this  temptation  is  exceedingly  great.  Those 
who  see,  often  judge  the  blind  too  harshly  in  this 
respect ;  they  think  that  because  any  one  has  lost  the 
principal  sense,  therefore  he  should  be  more  correct 
in  his  conduct  than  other  persons,  but  the  truth  is, 
that  the  loss  of  that  sense  exposes  him  to  greater 
temptation,  and  therefore  his  acts  should  be  looked 
on  with  more  leniency.  The  blind,  however,  should 
strenuously  guard  against  the  above-named  weakness, 
as  it  has  proved  the  ruin  of  many  afflicted  like  them- 
.  selves,  who  possessed  great  talents,  and  had  peculiar 
opportunities  of  prospering  in  the  world. 

Of  course  the  true  Christian  needs  no  such  motive, 
but  even  he  will  do  well  to  ponder  on  the  matter,  and 
when  "  he  thinketh  he  standeth,  let  him  take  heed  lest 
he  fall." 


THE  INFLUENCE  OF  THE  LOSS   OF  ONE  SENSE 
ON  THOSE  WHICH  KEMAIN. 

It  has  often  been  remarked  that  the  loss  of  one  sense 
is  made  up  for  by  increased  power  in  the  remaining 
senses.  This  is  an  adage  frequently  repeated  and 
popularly  believed,  but  its  truth  has  been  more  or  less 
denied  by  those  immediately  occupied  in  matters  con- 


INFLUENCE  OP  THE  LOSS  OF  ONE  SENSE.      63 

nected  with,  the  blind.  This  circumstance  is  especially- 
remarkable,  as  it  is  evident  that  a  certain  amount  of 
nervous  power  is  exerted  by  every  action  of  the  mind 
or  body.  This  being  so,  it  is  clear  that  a  sighted  man 
expends  more  nervous  power  through  the  medium  of 
the  eye  than  he  does  in  connection  with  the  organs  of 
any  other  sense.  When,  however,  the  sense  of  sight 
is  wanting,  the  nervous  power  usually  exerted  by  it  is 
employed  by  the  other  senses.  So  that  the  powers  of 
perception  enjoyed  by  a  blind  man  in  common  with 
his  sighted  brethren  are  more  acute  than  they  are 
under  ordinary  circumstances ;  but  although  this  fact 
mitigates,  it  does  not  by  any  means  compensate  for 
the  loss  of  sight.  The  sense  of  touch  cannot  be  culti- 
vated as  highly  in  a  man  who  can  see  as  in  one  who 
is  blind,  for  the  simple  reason  that  whereas  the  nervous 
power  of  the  former  is  diffused  through  five  senses,  in 
the  latter  it  is  more  concentrated,  being  diffused  only 
through  four  senses. 

A  further  illustration  of  this  subject  may  be  gained 
from  the  following  remarks  : — 

The  senses  are  like  five  wires  radiating  from  an 
electric  battery,  commonly  called  the  brain.  These 
wires,  or  senses,  differ  in  their  capacity  for  conducting 
nervous  power, — the  largest  wire,  i.  e.  the  sense  of 
sight,  carrying  and  applying  perhaps  more  nervous 
power  than  the  other  four  wires  or  senses  combined. 
If  the  largest  wire  be  disconnected  from  the  battery, 
the  whole  power  of  the  battery  is  thrown  into  the  four 
wires ;  and  so  when  sight  is  wanting,  the  whole  nervous 
power  of  the  human  system  is  thrown  into  the  remain- 
ing four  senses,  which  gives  to  them  an  increased 
power  of  development. 

The  senses  of  hearing,  smell,  and  sight  may  be 
properly  called  the  distant  senses,  while  touch  and  taste 
may  be  designated  the  near  senses.  The  former  class 
only  perceive  through  the  media  of  air  and  light,  while 


64  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

the  latter  come  in  direct  contact  with  the  objects  per- 
ceived ;  and  here  it  may  be  remarked  that  it  seems  to 
be  the  object  of  the  Creator  that  the  senses  should  not 
only  each  in  its  respective  sphere  fulfil  the  special 
office  for  which  it  is  fitted,  but  that  they  should  also 
render  mutual  aid  to  each  other,  so  that,  for  instance, 
the  perceptions  of  the  eye  may  be  corrected  by  the 
touch  and  the  other  senses. 


THE  UNRECOGNIZED  SENSES. 

Besides  the  universally  acknowledged  five  senses,  it 
is  evident  that  man  possesses  certain  powers  which  are 
neither  classified  among  the  senses  nor  the  faculties ; 
such  a  power,  for  instance,  is  that  which  enables  him 
to  perceive  the  quality  of  weight.  This  fact  is  indeed 
acknowledged  to  some  extent  by  many  physiologists, 
who  admit  the  existence  of  a  sixth  sense,  which  they 
call  '  the  muscular  sense,'  or  the  sense  of  weight,  but 
the  admission  of  the  existence  of  this  sense  does  not 
account  for  the  presence  of  phenomena  which  can  only 
be  explained,  as  we  think,  by  admitting  the  existence 
of  as  many  senses  as  there  are  independent  powers  of 
perception  in  man  ;  and  this  being  so,  seven  or  eight 
senses  must  be  acknowledged,  and  we  shall  therefore 
now  lay  before  the  reader  some  facts  bearing  on  this 
subject. 

Whether  within  a  house  or  in  the  open  air,  whether 
walking  or  standing  still,  I  can  tell,  although  quite 
blind,  when  I  am  opposite  an  object,  and  can  perceive 
whether  it  be  tall  or  short,  slender  or  bulky.  I  can 
also  detect  whether  it  be  a  solitary  object  or  a  con- 
tinuous fence,  whether  it  be  a  close  fence  or  com- 
posed of  open  rails,  and  often  whether  it  be  a 
wooden  fence,  a  brick  or  stone  wall,  or  a  quickset 
hedge.  I  cannot  usually  perceive  objects  if  much 
lower  than  my  shoulder,  but  sometimes  very  low 


THE    UNRECOGNIZED    SENSES.  65 

objects  can  be  detected.  This  may  depend  on  the 
nature  of  the  objects,  or  on  some  abnormal  state 
of  the  atmosphere.  The  currents  of  air  can  have 
nothing  to  do  with  this  power,  as  the  state  of  the  wind 
does  not  directly  affect  it ;  the  sense  of  hearing  has 
nothing  to  do  with  it,  as  when  snow  lies  thickly  on  the 
ground  objects  are  more  distinct,  although  the  footfall 
cannot  be  heard.  I  seem  to  perceive  objects  through 
the  skin  of  my  face,  and  to  have  the  impressions  im- 
mediately transmitted  to  the  brain.  The  only  part  of 
my  body  possessing  this  power  is  my  face ;  this  I  have 
ascertained  by  suitable  experiments.  Stopping  my 
ears  does  not  interfere  with  it,  but  covering  my  face 
with  a  thick  veil  destroys  it  altogether.  None  of  the 
five  senses  have  anything  to  do  with  the  existence  of 
this  power,  and  the  circumstances  above  named  induce 
me  to  call  this  unrecognized  sense  by  the  name  of 
"  Facial  Perception." 

Dr.  Saunderson  could  tell  when  a  cloud  obscured  the 
horizon.  At  one  time  I  could  do  this  with  great  ac- 
curacy, but  cannot  now  trust  myself  in  this  respect. 
Whether  long  residence  in  London,  where  clouds  may 
be  said  to  be  "  the  rule/'  may  account  for  this,  I  can- 
not say.  I  have  known  several  persons  totally  blind 
possessing  this  power ;  Mr.  Farrow  among  others. 

The  presence  of  fog  interferes  greatly  with  "  facial 
perception,"  the  impressions  of  objects  are  faint  and 
untrustworthy.  I  believe  experiments  will  show  that 
the  drier  the  atmosphere,  the  more  perfect  the  exercise 
of  this  sense,  and  what  relation  electricity  may  bear  to 
it  is  yet  to  be  ascertained.  I  have  a  strong  conviction 
that  eventually  it  will  be  demonstrated  beyond  doubt 
that  various  substances,  such  as  iron,  wood,  stone,  etc. 
convey  different  impressions  to  the  face,  but  a  more 
minute  examination  of  the  subject  is  required.  Although, 
as  above  stated,  fog  is  an  impediment,  ordinary  dark- 
ness is  no  inconvenience;  anything,  however,  which 
attracts  the  other  senses,  such  as  noise,  partially  occu- 


65  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

pies  the  attention  of  the  mind,  and  so  interferes 
with  the  impressions  received  through  "  facial  percep- 
tion." What  influence  the  cause  of  blindness  may 
have  on  this  subject  I  cannot  say,  but  probably  very 
little,  for  in  my  case  the  sight  of  one  eye  was  lost  soon 
after  birth,  and  the  other  by  an  accident,  and  Saunder- 
son  became  blind  in  infancy.  With  those,  however,  who 
lose  their  sight  from  nervous  disease,  the  case  may  be 
different,  as  doubtless  with  them  the  whole  system 
suffers  from  the  same  disease  that  produced  blindness. 

When  passing  along  a  street  I  can  distinguish  shops 
from  private  houses,  and  even  point  out  the  doors  and 
windows,  etc.  and  this  whether  the  doors  be  shut  or 
open.  When  a  window  consists  of  one  entire  sheet 
of  glass,  it  is  more  difficult  to  discover  than  one  com- 
posed of  a  number  of  small  panes.  From  this  it  would 
appear  that  glass  is  a  bad  conductor  of  sensation,  or  at 
any  rate  of  the  sensation  specially  connected  with  this 
sense.  When  objects  below  the  face  are  perceived,  the 
sensation  seems  to  come  in  an  oblique  line  from  the 
object  to  the  upper  part  of  the  face.  While  walking 
with  a  friend  in  Forest  Lane,  Stratford,  I  said,  pointing 
to  a  fence  which  separated  the  road  from  a  field,  "  Those 
rails  are  not  quite  as  high  as  my  shoulder."  He  looked 
at  them  and  said  they  were  higher.  We,  however, 
measured  and  found  them  about  three  inches  lower 
than  my  shoulder.  At  the  time  of  making  this  obser- 
vation I  was  about  four  feet  from  the  rails.  Certainly 
in  this  instance  facial  perception  was  more  accurate 
than  sight.  When  the  lower  part  of  a  fence  is  brick- 
work, and  the  upper  part  rails,  the  fact  can  be  detected, 
and  the  line  where  the  two  meet  easily  perceived.  Ir- 
regularities in  height  and  projections,  and  indentations 
in  walls,  can  also  be  discovered.  The  utility  of  this 
sense  to  the  blind  who  walk  alone  is  too  obvious  to 
need  comment,  and  we  shall  therefore  content  our- 
selves with  having  merely  alluded  to  the  subject. 

That  persons  in  general  possess  the  sense  of  facial 


THE    UNRECOGNIZED    SENSES.  67 

perception  there  appears  no  good  reason  to  doubt,  but 
in  the  case  of  the  sighted  its  existence  is  unrecognized, 
on  account  of  the  all-absorbing  claims  of  the  6ye,  and 
from  its  existence  being  of  a  more  secret  and  subtle 
nature  than  that  of  the  other  senses.  That  mankind, 
however,  derive  some  benefit  from  it,  of  which  they 
themselves  are  ignorant,  it  is  impossible  to  doubt.  He 
-who  considers  the  pleasurable  emotions  imparted  to 
man  from  having  an  exhilarating  breeze  play  upon  his 
face,  can  never  doubt  that  there  is  some  connection 
between  the  emotion  and  the  existence  of  the  sense 
;above  described. 

As  bearing  on  this  subject,  it  may  .not  be  out  of 
place  to  mention  a  remarkable  circumstance  connected 
-with  the  insectivorous  bats.  The  eyes  of  this  species 
of  quadrupeds  are  particularly  small,  hence  the  saying, 
•"  blind  as  a  bat."  The  defect  of  vision  is,  however, 
fully  compensated  by  a  wonderful  power  of  perception, 
analogous  to  that  faculty  in  man  which  has  been  called 
in  these  pages  Facial  Perception. 

Spallanzani  extracted  the  eyes  of  bats  and  covered 
the  empty  sockets  with  leather.  Yet  in  this  condition 
they  flew  round  his  room,  avoiding  the  sides,  never 
striking  against  anything,  and  flying  out  of  the  door 
without  touching  the  door-case.  In  flying  through  a 
sewer  which  made  a  right  angle,  they  turned  at  the 
proper  point,  though  at  a  distance  of  two  feet  from  the 
walls ;  they  found  their  resting-place  on  a  cornice,  and 
flew  through  threads  suspended  from  the  ceiling  with- 
out touching  them,  though  scarcely  further  apart  than 
would  admit  their  extended  wings ;  and  they  avoided 
all  obstacles  with  equal  facility  when  the  whole  head 
was  covered  with  varnish.  In  the  English  translation 
of  Blumenbach  it  is  stated  that  bats  possess  the  power 
of  avoiding  any  obstacles,  even  though  the  ears,  eyes, 
and  nose  be  closed.  Hence  some  naturalists  have  as- 
cribed a  sixth  sense  to  these  animals.  Some  consider 
this  sense  as  analogous  to  "  touch,"  but  it  is  hard  to 

p  2 


68  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

see  why.  For  "  touch  "  perceives  by  contact,  but  it  is 
the  essential  peculiarity  of  this  sense  that  it  perceives 
without  contact.  Saying  that  it  resembles  "touch" 
seems  like  affirming  that  it  resembles  it,  because  it  is 
in  every  way  its  opposite.  All  that  is  above  stated  as 
having  been  done  by  bats  can  be  done  by  a  highly- 
cultivated  blind  man, — walking,  of  course,  taking  the 
place  of  flying. 


ON  THE  BLIND  WALKING  ALONE,   AND   OF 
GUIDES. 

"  The  blind  man  who  governs  his  steps  by  feeling,  in  defect  of  eyes, 
receives  advertisement  of  things  through  a  staff." — DIGBT. 

The  above  graphic  lines  show  that  the  phenomenon  of 
the  blind  walking  alone  in  the  streets  was  by  no  means 
uncommon  250  years  ago,  but  the  antiquity  of  this 
practice  is  far  greater  than  the  time  of  Digby,  for  we 
find  in  Holy  "Writ,  that  as  early  as  the  propagation  of 
the  Levitical  law,  the  self-reliance  of  the  blind  in  walk- 
ing abroad  without  a  guide  was  recognized  and  pro- 
tected by  the  special  command  of  Jehovah  himself; 
thus  we  have  in  Leviticus  xix.  14,  "Thou  shalt  not 
curse  the  deaf,  nor  put  a  stumbling-block  before  the 
blind,  but  shalt  fear  thy  God.  I  am  the  Lord." 
(Deuteronomy  xvii.  18),  "Cursed  be  he  that  maketh 
the  blind  to  wander  out  of  his  way,  and  all  the  people 
shall  say  Amen."  These  passages  forcibly  show  the 
special  care  of  God,  and  are  a  striking  rebuke  to  those 
shallow  philanthropists  who  wish  to  prevent  the  blind 
walking  alone,  and  thereby  to  deprive  them  of  per- 
sonal freedom,  and  so  to  aggravate  the  affliction  of  loss 
of  sight. 

It  is  not  only  in  the  sacred  Scriptures  that  re- 
cords are  found  of  the  independence  shown  by  the 
blind  of  antiquity,  for  in  the  Greek  mythology  the  sub- 


ON   THE    BLIND   WALKING   ALONE.  69 

ject  is  referred  to  in  a  most  remarkable  way.     The 
ancients  were  so  much  struck  with  the  circumstance 
of  the  blind  walking  alone,  aided  only  by  a  stick,  that, 
in  their  usual  way,  they  made  it  a  miraculous  gift  of 
the  gods,  and  handed  it  down  as  an  article  of  faith, 
that  when  the  ancient  prophet  Teresias  was  deprived 
of  sight  for  an  offence  against  the  gods,  he  was  com- 
passionated by  the  goddess  Chariclo,  who  in  pity  for 
his  misfortune  gave  him  a  staff,  by  which  he  could 
conduct  his  steps  with  as  much  safety  as  if  he  had  the 
use  of  his  eyesight.     The  importance  to  every  blind 
man  of  acquiring  the  power  of  walking  in  the  streets 
without  a  guide  can  scarcely  be  exaggerated.     Loss  of 
sight  is  in  itself  a  great  privation,  and  when  to  it  is 
added  the  want  of  power  of  locomotion,  the  sufferer 
more  nearly  approaches  the  condition  of  a  vegetable 
than   that  of  a   member  of  the   human  family.      Of 
course  he  who  possesses  the  ability  of  walking  alone 
is  not  obliged  always  to  practise  it.     If  circumstances 
enable  him  to  accomplish  more  by  having  a  guide,  it 
is  desirable  for  him  to  do  so  ;  but  even  in  this  case  the 
knowledge  that  he  is  not  utterly  dependent  on  a  guide, 
and  that  if  he  were  to  be  left  alone  at  any  moment  he 
would  be  master  of  his  own  actions,  and  be  enabled 
to    direct  his  steps  through  the  world,  gives  to  him 
such  confidence  and  comforting  self-reliance  which  no 
other  possession  could  afford.     With  the  mass  of  those 
who  are  blind,  however,   there  is  little  choice;  they 
must  either  walk  alone  or  sit  still;  and  as  health  of 
body,  tranquillity  and  vigour  of  mind,  and  the  attain- 
ment of  the  means  of  subsistence  largely  depend  upon 
the  power  of  moving  at  will,  it  is  felt  desirable  to  offer 
a  few  hints  to  facilitate  the  acquisition  of  such  an  im- 
portant object.     One  of  the  greatest  aids  to  him  who 
would  walk  by  himself  is  a  stick ;  this  should  be  light 
and  not  elastic,  in  order  that  correct  impressions  may 
be  transmitted  from  the  objects  with  which  it  comes 
in  contact  to  the  hand  of  the  user.     The  handle  should 


70  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

be  somewhat  like  a  hook,  and  sufficiently  large  to  be* 
grasped  firmly,  so  that  it  may  not  easily  be  knocked 
out  of  the  hand ;  of  course  the  stick  should  be  suited 
to  the  height  of  the  individual,  but  it  should  be  rather 
longer  than  what  would  be  used  by  an  ordinary  person 
of  equal  stature,  and  it  should  always  have  a  good 
ferrule,  that  the  length  may  not  vary ;  the  stick  should 
usually  be  held  in  the  right  hand  and  placed  hori- 
zontally about  six  inches  in  front  of  the  person  in  an 
oblique  position  from  the  right  hand  to  the  ground. 
The  hand  should  grasp  the  hook  so  as  to  be  covered 
by  the  stick,  and  thus  be  shielded  from  injury  when 
coming  in  contact  with  a  post,  or  other  similar  ob- 
ject. When  stepping,  the  stick  should  be  waved 
alternately  from  right  to  left  to  correspond  with  the 
movements  of  the  feet ;  thus  when  the  right  foot  moves, 
the  stick  should  feel  on  the  right  side,  when  the  left 
advances  it  should  touch  the  left  side ;  and  as  the  stick 
should  always  be  held  about  six  or  nine  inches  from 
the  feet,  the  ground  will  always  be  examined  before 
being  actually  trodden.  When  danger  from  coming  in 
contact  with  an  object  is  apprehended,  the  regular 
motion  of  the  stick  from  right  to  left  should  cease,  and 
it  should  be  instantly  placed  before  the  person  in  an. 
oblique  position,  as  above  named,  and  should  only 
touch  the  ground  on  the  right  and  left  sides  at  com- 
paratively distant  periods,  it  being  borne  in  mind  that 
the  use  of  the  stick  is  not  only  to  discover  the  nature 
of  the  ground,  but  also  to  defend  the  walker  from 
objects  at  rest.  The  left  arm  should  be  placed  hori- 
zontally close  against  the  chest,  so  as  to  be  imme- 
diately advanced  on  the  apprehension  of  danger.  The 
padestrian  should  keep  in  the  middle  of  the  pave- 
ment, so  as  to  avoid  alike  the  posts  on  the  kerb, 
and  the  projections  from  the  houses.  His  posture 
should  be  perfectly  erect,  that  his  face  may  not  be 
injured  by  coming  in  contact  with  various  objects. 
As  little  noise  as  possible  should  be  made  with  the 


ON    THE    BLIND   WALKING  ALONE.  71 

stick,  and  all  the  motions  and  actions  of  the  walker 
should  correspond,  as  far  as  practicable,  to  those  of  the 
sighted  man,  for  the  less  notice  that  is  attracted  by  the 
blind  in  the  streets  the  better  for  their  comfort.  On 
coming  to  a  step,  its  depth  or  height  should  be  gauged 
with  the  stick,  and  this  operation  should  be  rigidly 
carried  out,  as  the  life  of  the  individual  may  depend 
on  the  result.  Comparatively  quiet  streets  may  be 
crossed  without  a  guide,  but  those  with  considerable 
traffic  should  never  be  attempted.  Just  touching  a 
first  passer-by,  and  asking  him  to  lead  you  across  is 
much  better  than  risking  your  neck  or  shattering  your 
nervous  system ;  and  what  if  some  churlish  man  refuse  ? 
such  an  one  is  his  own  tormentor,  and  may  well  excite 
our  pity  instead  of  provoking  anger.  But  in  general 
it  will  be  found  that  ninety-nine  persons  out  of  a  hun- 
dred will  be  delighted  on  the  slightest  solicitation  to 
be  for  one  moment  eyes  to  the  blind.  On  crossing  a 
street  without  help  all  the  faculties  should  be  called  in 
play  to  ascertain  if  danger  exists.  Before  starting, 
the  stick  should  gently  sweep  the  ground  in  front,  and 
no  running  should  be  attempted,  the  pace  should  even 
be  slower  than  on  other  occasions.  The  greater  the  pro- 
bability of  danger,  the  more  caution  and  self-possession 
are  required.  When  steps,  or  other  similar  hindrances, 
are  anticipated,  the  stick  should  be  advanced  to  its  full 
length,  so  as  to  perceive,  at  the  earliest  possible  mo- 
ment, the  circumstances  of  the  position.  If  the  path 
be  found  strewn  with  loose  earth,  etc.  it  is  a  sign  that 
caution  is  necessary,  and  the  nature  of  the  materials 
covering  the  ground  will  often  indicate  the  kind  of 
danger  to  be  expected ;  the  determination  of  this  point 
is  very  much  aided  by  the  muscular  sense  as  exercised 
through  the  feet,  and  for  this  reason  thick  shoes  are 
objectionable.  It  may  be  mentioned  that  a  light 
umbrella  may  be  found  useful.  When  not  employed 
to  keep  off  rain,  it  should  be  carried  by  the  middle  in 
the  left  hand,  in  which  position  it  will  be  of  occasional 


72  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

service  in  detecting  objects  on  that  side.  The  sense 
of  hearing,  it  may  readily  be  imagined,  is  a  very  great 
assistance,  especially  in  recognizing  the  approach  of 
persons  and  things.  By  its  means  the  precise  distance 
of  vehicles  may  be  ascertained,  and  it  also  detects  the 
number  and  kind  of  foot-passengers  that  are  near.  To 
enter  into  a  lerfgthy  description  of  the  services  rendered 
by  the  auditory  nerve  to  the  blind  who  walk  alone 
would  be  superfluous,  as  knowledge  of  this  kind  can 
only  be  obtained  by  experience,  and  all  that  is  now 
attempted  is  to  point  out  the  course  that  should  be 
pursued ;  and  we  do  so  in  the  full  persuasion  that  the 
more  such  a  mode  is  practised,  the  greater  will  be  the 
knowledge  and  enjoyment  of  those  who  undertake  the 
task. 

It  may,  however,  be  remarked  that  when  the  clink 
of  a  chain  is  heard  on  the  pavement,  it  may  be  inferred 
that  barrels  are  being  lowered  into  a  cellar,  in  which 
case  he  who  would  avoid  danger  had  better  call  out, 
and  ask  if  "he  can  pass?"  and  the  same  should  be 
done  on  hearing  the  sound  of  falling  coals,  or  of  any 
similar  things  on  the  pathway.  The  sense  of  smell  is 
also  of  great  importance  to  the  blind  pedestrian.  He 
may  be  aided  much  by  noticing  the  particular  odours 
connected  with  different  places,  e.  g.,  the  scent  of  paint 
shows  that  a  house  has  been  newly  painted,  and  there- 
fore is  to  be  avoided,  unless  he  would  spoil  his  clothes. 
The  smell  of  beer,  or  of  a  damp,  ill-ventilated  place, 
shows  that  a  public-house  or  other  cellar  is  open ;  the 
scent  of  tarred  sacks  indicates  that  the  iron  over  a 
cellar  has  been  removed  that  coals  may  be  delivered. 
The  following  shops  may  also  be  found  by  smell : — 
Grocers,  butchers,  bakers,  oilmen,  drapers,  stationers, 
shoemakers,  chemists,  etc.  By  cultivation  very  minute 
differences  may  be  perceived,  such  as  telling  a  haber- 
dasher's from  a  draper's.  Scent  will  also  enable  a  per- 
son to  detect  the  approach  of  a  sweep,  or  of  a  man 
carrying  a  bag  of  flour,  and  thus  be  the  means  of 


ON    THE   BLIND   WALKING   ALONE.  73 

enabling  him  to  avoid  the  effects  of  contact  with 
them.  The  unrecognized  sense,  which  we  call  "Facial 
Perception"  often  enables  a  person  to  recognize  by 
sensation  the  nature  and  position  of  posts,  the  exist- 
ence of  private  houses,  shops,  and  blank  walls,  etc., 
and  for  further  remarks  on  this  subject  the  reader  is 
particularly  referred  to  the  pages  on  the  Unrecognized 
Senses,  and  to  the  portion  of  this  work  which  treats  of 
the  five  ordinary  senses.  With  regard  to  the  distance 
that  may  be  travelled  without  sight,  persons  have  been 
known  to  walk  from  Manchester  to  London,  and  some 
to  traverse  every  part  of  the  kingdom,  as  beggars, 
and  strolling  players.  When  in  Paris,  a  few  years 
ago,  we  greatly  surprised  the  blind  with  whom  we 
came  in  contact  by  describing  the  way  in  which  their 
English  compeers  traversed  the  streets  of  London,  as 
walking  without  a  guide  seems  quite  unpractised  by 
the  French  blind. 

We  cannot  quit  this  subject  without  inserting  an 
account  of  a  village  carrier,  whose  conduct  forcibly 
illustrates  the  matter  in  hand : — 

"  A  stranger  passing  through  Godalming  on  any  day 
save  Sunday  at  about  noon,  could  not  fail  to  be  struck 
with  the  appearance  of  a  cheery-looking  old  man, 
with  a  number  of  parcels  and  bundles  hung  about  him 
in  all  sorts  of  impossible  ways,  and  a  small  twisted 
brass  horn  slung  from  his  neck.  On  closer  inspection, 
he  would  perceive  that  this  little  hale  old  man, 
posting  along  at  a  rapid  rate  with  a  stout  stick  in 
his  hand,  but  making  no  uncommon  use  of  it,  is  blind, 
although  an  extraordinary  intelligence  lightens  up  the 
features  and  takes  away  that  painful  and  melancholy 
look  which  often  accompanies  blindness  in  those  who 
are  the  subjects  of  that  greatest  of  privations.  That 
is  old  George  Marden,  who  for  upwards  of  twenty 
years  has  acted  as  carrier  between  Humbledon  and 
Godalming.  During  the  whole  of  that  period  he  has 
been  totally  blind.  He  is  now  considerably  over 


74  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

seventy  years  of  age,  and  yet  lie  daily  trudges  between 
these  places,  which  are  four  miles  apart,  calling  wher- 
ever he  is  required,  and  discharging  the  responsible 
duties  of  his  vocation  with  unerring  accuracy.  The 
road  which  he  traverses  is  exceedingly  intricate,  being 
chiefly  paths  across  commons,  and  otherwise  involved, 
and  he  often  has  to  make  divergences  for  the  residences 
of  persons  living  off  the  main  track.  But  old  George 
never  stumbles.  A  blast  from  his  little  horn  makes 
known  his  approach,  and  whether  at  the  cottage  of 
the  humble,  or  the  mansion  of  the  rich,  there  are  few 
more  welcome  visitants,  for  he  is  a  great  importer 
of  news  and  gossip,  and  never  arrives  empty- 
handed.  During  the  severe  snow-storms  of  last 
winter,  when  the  paths  which  he  traversed  were 
completely  obliterated,  and  it  would  have  puzzled  the 
keenest-sighted  individual  to  have  made  the  journey, 
George  Harden  never  missed  a  day,  and  it  is  believed 
never  wandered  out  of  his  road  an  inch.  Indeed,  the 
old  fellow's  other  perceptive  faculties  are  wonderfully 
acute,  and  the  inhabitants  of  Godalming  declare  that 
he  knows  every  one  of  them  as  he  passes,  even  though 
they  do  not  speak — a  belief  which  gains  strength  from 
the  fact  that  he  salutes  them  by  name  and  never  errs. 
It  is  said  that  he  makes  fewer  mistakes  than  any 
other  carrier  in  or  out  of  the  town,  and  there  is  no 
one  who  is  more  implicitly  relied  on  for  the  perfor- 
mance of  those  numerous  little  commissions  so  often 
entrusted  by  the  denizens  of  a  village  to  the  carrier  to 
the  nearest  town.  Old  George  enjoys  excellent  health,, 
and  is  reported  never  to  have  missed  a  day  since, 
nearly  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago,  he  first  entered  on 
his  career  as  a  carrier."  ('  West  Surrey  Times,'  May 
4th,  1867.) 

The  treatment  of  this  branch  of  the  subject  would 
be  far  from  complete  were  a  passing  mention  not  to 
be  made  of  guides.  When  the  cost  of  such  an  assis- 
tant can  be  met,  and  it  is  deemed  advisable  for  any 


ON    THE    BLIND   WALKING   ALONE.  75' 

one  to  avail  himself  of  such  service,  the  greater  amount 
of  intelligence  possessed  by  the  person  engaged,  the 
better  will  he  be  enabled  to  discharge  his  ordinary 
duties,  and  also  to  report  acurately  to  his  employer  the 
nature  of  various  circumstances  that  meet  his  view; 
but  above  all  things,  a  father  who  is  without  sight 
should  shrink  from  depriving  his  children  of  any  ad- 
vantages to  make  use  of  them  as  guides.  He  should 
remember  that  his  children,  although  they  are  his  off- 
spring, have  natural  rights,  and  that  by  keeping  his 
sons  and  daughters  in  a  state  of  ignorance,  and 
drudgery,  he  is  reducing  them  to  a  condition  far  worse 
than  blindness.  It  is  too  much  to  be  feared  that  many 
parents  have  a  great  deal  to  answer  for  in  this  way, 
and  the  writer  would  earnestly  impress  upon  them  so 
to  act,  that  in  future  years  their  children  may  speak  of 
their  blind  father  with  thankfulness  and  pride,  rather 
than  with  contempt  and  derision.  Not  the  least  re- 
markable among  the  guides  of  the  blind  is  the  faith- 
ful dog  ;  the  breed  of  the  dog  usually  employed  in  this 
way  is  not  much,  and  the  appearance  of  the  animal  is 
far  from  striking,  but  his  intelligence  and  fidelity  are 
beyond  description.  To  lead  his  master  through 
the  most  crowded  thoroughfares  unhurt,  to  turn  to  the 
right  or  left  when  bidden,  to  cross  roads  only  when 
quite  safe  for  his  feeble  and  helpless  master  to  do  so, 
to  stand  for  hours  with  a  cup  or  hat  in  his  mouth, 
pitifully  begging  for  pence,  and  to  refuse  to  quit  his 
charge  for  the  choicest  bone  even  when  pining  with 
hunger,  are  but  a  few  of  the  virtues  of  this  most  in- 
structive quadruped.  And  it  may  be  noted  that  crea- 
tures with  these  qualities  are  common  to  every  clirne, 
and  that  persons  afflicted  with  loss  of  sight,  even  when 
combined  with  deafness,  are  safe  when  under  the  pro- 
tection of  the  faithful  dog  Tray ;  a  little  dog  brought 
from  the  Crimea  safely  guided  his  master,  who  was  both 
blind  and  deaf,  for  many  months  through  the  most  in- 
tricate parts  of  Kent.  But  the  dog  has  his  rival,  albeit 


76  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

a  very  humble  one,  among  the  goose  tribe,  and  al- 
though it  seems  scarcely  credible  yet  it  is  stated 
that: 

"  In  a  village  in  Germany,  a  blind  old  woman  was 
led  to  church  every  Sunday  by  a  gander,  who  used  to 
take  hold  of  her  gown  with  his  bill.  When  he  had 
safely  conducted  the  poor  woman  to  her  seat,  he  would 
go  back  to  the  churchyard  and  graze  there  until  the 
service  was  over.  When  he  saw  the  people  coming 
out  of  church,  he  went  back  to  his  blind  mistress  and 
led  her  safely  home.  One  day  a  gentleman  called  at 
the  woman's  house,  and  when  he  found  her  out,  he  ex- 
pressed his  surprise  to  the  girl  who  opened  the  door. 
"  Oh,  Sir,"  she  answered,  "  we  are  not  afraid  of  trusting 
her  out,  for  the  gander  is  with  her." 

In  an  early  part  of  this  article  allusion  was  made  to 
the  injury  caused  to  health  by  the  want  of  power  of 
independent  motion.  This  result  must  be  so  evident, 
that  scarcely  any  observations  upon  it  are  required. 
It  is,  however,  felt  desirable  to  record  here  the  fact 
that  Dr.  Blacklock,  the  eminent  blind  philosopher, 
divine,  and  poet,  ascribed  much  of  the  physical  weak- 
ness and  timidity  of  nature  from  which  he  suffered  to 
his  not  being  allowed  when  young  to  walk  abroad 
without  a  guide.  And  in  the  article  "  Blind,"  written 
by  him  in  the  '  Encyclopaedia  Britannica/  he  makes  use 
of  the  following  words  when  speaking  of  the  blind 
child  :  —  "It  is  better  that  he  should  lose  a  little 
blood,  or  even  break  a  bone  than  be  perpetually 
confined  in  the  same  place,  debilitated  in  his  frame 
and  depressed  in  his  mind."  Let  not  any  one,  how- 
ever, be  alarmed  by  these  words  of  the  learned 
doctor,  for  loss  of  blood  and  broken  bones  do  not 
necessarily  follow  from  the  blind  walking  alone;  in 
fact,  it  is  believed  that  fewer  accidents  happen  to 
the  blind  than  to  the  sighted,  in  proportion  to  their 
numbers  ;  and  here  the  writer  can  speak  from  indi- 
vidual experience,  and  also  from  the  knowledge  he  has 


PRINTING   FOR   THE    BLIND.  77 

of  the    cases    of   hundreds  of  persons  in   the    same 
situation. 


PRINTING  FOR   THE  BLIND. 

The  invention  of  the  method  of  printing  in  relief 
is  one  of  the  most  valuable  discoveries  ever  made ;  and 
although  all  the  beneficial  results  anticipated  by  its 
early  promoters  have  not  followed  its  introduction, 
yet  real  and  substantial  advantages  have  accrued  to 
the  blind  by  its  instrumentality.  All  writers  on  this 
subject  for  the  last  eighty  years  have  accorded  the 
credit  of  this  invention  to  Valentine  Haiiy,  a  writing- 
master  of  Paris,  brother  of  the  celebrated  mineralogist, 
and  son" of  a  poor  weaver,  of  the  town  of  St.  Just,  in 
the  present  department  of  Oise.  Indeed,  Haiiy  him- 
self claimed  to  be  the  discoverer ;  and  respect  for  his 
labours,  and  for  the  character  of  many  of  those 
who  have  confirmed  his  theory,  causes  regret  that 
justice  should  oblige  us  to  state  that  Haiiy  was 
not  the  inventor.  This  step  we  certainly  should  not 
take  unless  we  had  the  warrant  of  the  most  undoubted 
evidence,  and  the  proof  we  now  proceed  to  lay  before 
the  reader.  About  twenty-two  years  before  Haiiy  is 
said  to  have  brought  out  his  invention,  an  account 
appeared  in  the  Annual  Kegister  for  1762  of  the  life 
and  accomplishments  of  Mademoiselle  de  Salignac,  a 
blind  lady,  in  which  occurs  the  following  passage : 
"  The  most  wonderful  circumstance  is  that  she  should 
have  learnt  to  read  and  write,  but  even  this  is  readily 
believed  on  knowing  her  method.  In  writing  to  her, 
no  ink  is  used,  but  the  letters  are  pricked  down  on 
the  paper,  and  by  the  delicacy  of  her  touch,  feeling  each 
letter,  she  follows  them  successively,  and  reads  every 
word  with  her  finger  ends/'  M.  Diderot,  the  cele- 
brated French  encyclopaedist,  says,  "  She  could  read  a 
book  printed  only  on  one  side ;  Priault  printed  some  in 


78  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

this  manner  for  her  use."  Although  obliged  to  refuse 
to  Haiiy  the  honour  of  having  invented  l  tangible  print/ 
we,  nevertheless,  owe  him  a  deep  debt  of  gratitude  for 
having  established  the  first  school  for  the  instruction  of 
the  blind,  and  also  for  having  succeeded  in  directing 
the  attention  of  the  various  European  States  to  the 
mode  of  educating  those  deprived  of  sight.  Haiiy 
having  formed  the  acquaintance  of  the  Baroness  Von 
Paradis,  of  Vienna,  who  visited  Paris  in  1 780,  and  per- 
formed publicly  on  the  organ  and  pianoforte  with 
great  applause,  he  repeatedly  visited  that  talented  lady, 
and  was  much  surprised  to  find  in  her  apartments  several 
contrivances  for  the  use  of  the  blind,  among  which  a 
small  printing  apparatus  particularly  attracted  his  no- 
tice. The  invention  of  this  appliance  has  been  severally 
ascribed  to  a  blind  gentleman,  named  Weissemborg, 
of  Mannheim,  in  Bavaria,  the  inventor  of  maps,  etc.  for 
the  use  of  the  blind,  and  to  Von  Kempelen,  of  Vienna, 
the  inventor  of  the  mechanical  chess  player  and  of 
the  speaking  automaton,  but  of  the  origin  and  mode 
of  working  this  printing  apparatus  we  have  no  reliable 
information.  We,  however,  know  that  Madame  Von  Par- 
adis was  enabled  to  correspond  by  its  means,  both  with 
Herr  Von  Kernpelin  and  with  Herr  Weissemborg,  and 
we  may  therefore  gather  that  it  could  be  used  by  a  blind 
lady,  and  that  its  productions  could  be  read  both  by 
the  sighted  and  by  the  blind.  Haiiy  compared  the 
high  cultivation  of  Mademoiselle  Von  Paradis  and  Hen* 
Weissemborg  with  the  degraded  state  of  the  masses  of 
the  blind  in  France,  a  striking  instance  of  which  was 
afforded  by  the  part  they  took  at  the  annual  fair  of 
St.  Ovid.  At  this  fair  an  inn-keeper  had  ten  blind 
men  attired  in  a  ridiculous  manner,  and  decorated 
with  asses'  ears,  peacocks'  tails,  and  spectacles  with- 
out glasses,  in  which  condition  they  performed  a 
burlesque  concert,  the  profits  doubtless  being  divided 
between  the  blind  men  and  the  inn-keeper.  Haiiy 
after  much  reflection,  opened  in  1 784  an  institution  for 


PRINTING   FOR   THE   BLIND.  79 

the  instruction  of  the  blind  in  reading1,  writing,  arith- 
metic, geography,  music,  and  various  mechanical  em- 
ployments. The  institution  was  at  first  entirely  sup- 
ported by  voluntary  contributions,  and  by  the  aid 
afforded  by  the  Philanthropic  Society  of  Paris,  which 
supplied  funds  for  the  maintenance  and  instruction 
of  twelve  persons.  Some  say  that  Haiiy  took  his  idea  of 
printing  in  relief  from  seeing  a  sheet  of  ordinary  black 
print  that  had  by  chance  been  very  much  pressed,  so 
that  the  letters  were  raised  on  the  back  of  the  paper. 
But,  however  this  may  be,  in  1784  books  were  embossed 
by  him,  and  on  December  26th,  1786,  he  examined  be- 
fore the  amiable  and  unfortunate  Louis  XVI.  twenty- 
four  pupils  in  reading,  writing,  music,  geography,  and 
arithmetic,  and  in  the  same  year  he  published  an  ac- 
count of  his  contrivances,  entitled,  '  Essai  sur  FEduca- 
tion  des  Aveugles.' 

As  the  novelty  of  the  subject  wore  away,  voluntary 
contributions  almost  came  to  an  end,  and  the  blind- 
school  must  have  ceased  to  exist,  had  it  not  been 
taken,  in  1791,  under  the  protection  of  the  State. 
This  patronage,  however,  although  it  secured  the 
establishment  from  extinction,  greatly  impaired  its 
efficiency.  The  training  of  the  blind  and  of  the 
deaf  and  dumb  was  now  under  one  roof,  but  the  evils 
of  this  arrangement  became  so  patent,  that  a  separa- 
tion took  place  in  1795.  Six  years  after  this  occur- 
rence, the  school  was  united  to  the  hospital  of  the 
Quinze-vingts,  but  the  mixing  of  young  blind  persons 
with  old  soldiers,  whose  only  common  link  with  them 
was  want  of  sight,  was  found  to  be  so  prejudicial,  that 
Haiiy,  full  of  indignation,  resigned  his  position  as 
director  of  the  institution,  and  went  to  St.  Petersburg 
in  1804,  to  which  city  he  had  been  invited  by  the 
Emperor  Paul,  to  establish  an  institution.  In  the 
same  year,  he  succeeded  in  forming  a  similar  establish- 
ment in  Berlin,  but  the  unsettled  state  of  affairs  in 
the  north  of  Europe  caused  him  to  return  to  Paris  in 


80  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

1808,  where  he  lived  with  his  brother  the  Abbe.  While 
in  Russia,  he  received  the  decoration  of  the  Order  of 
St.  Wladimer  as  an  acknowledgment  of  his  services. 
After  the  restoration  of  the  Bourbons,  Haiiy  succeeded 
in  obtaining  an  annuity  of  2000  francs,  but  his  en- 
joyment of  this  pittance  lasted  but  a  few  years,  as  he  died 
in  1822,  at  the  age  of  76.  Many  accuse  Haiiy  of  having 
had  more  zeal  than  discretion,  but  such  depreciators 
should  know  that  the  era  of  the  great  French  Revolution 
was  not  the  most  favourable  for  the  development  of  an 
art,  the  object  of  which  was  to  improve  the  condition 
of  a  class  of  persons  who  exert  scarcely  any  influence 
in  the  political  arena ;  and  here  it  must  be  observed 
that  the  way  in  which  Haiiy  was  treated  by  Dr.  Gullie, 
who  became  Director  of  the  Institution  of  Paris,  in 
1815,  cannot  be  too  strongly  deprecated.  In  Gullie's 
book,  published  1820,  entitled,  '  Essai  sur  1'Instruc- 
tion  des  Aveugles,  ou  Expose  Analytique  des  Precedes 
employes  pour  les  instruire/  Haiiy  was  almost  entirely 
ignored,  which  indignity  was  more  poignant  as  he  was 
then  alive,  and  suffering  from  depressed  circumstances, 
brought  on  by  devotion  to  the  cause  of  the  blind. 

Some  accounts  state  that  Haiiy  received  a  pension 
of  2000  francs  from  the  Government  of  Napoleon,  in 
1802,  as  compensation  for  his  loss  of  office,  and  that  he 
stayed  eleven  years  in  Russia,  not  returning  to  France 
until  181 7.  But,  on  the  whole,  the  account  given  above 
seems  most  consistent. 

It  is  gratifying  to  be  able  to  record  that  an  attempt 
to  repair  the  injustice  done  to  the  merits  of  Haiiy  was 
made  by  the  French  Government,  in  1861,  by  the  erec- 
tion of  a  marble  bust  to  his  memory,  in  one  of  the  courts 
of  the  Institution  for  the  Blind,  at  Paris.  On  August 
10  of  that  year,  a  festival  was  held  to  inaugurate  the 
statue  of  Haiiy,  at  which  several  laudatory  speeches 
were  delivered.  One  of  those  who  took  part  in  this 
festival  was  M.  Rodenbach,  the  celebrated  blind  mem- 
ber of  the  Belgian  Chamber  of  Deputies.  He  had  been 


PRINTING   FOE   THE    BLIND.  81 

a  pupil  of  Hatty's,  and  his  speech  011  this  occasion  pro- 
duced the  most  lively  emotion.  There  is  also  now 
existing  in  the  chapel  of  the  institution  a  tablet  bear- 
ing an  inscription  which  states  that  Haiiy  was  born  at 
St.  Just,  Picardy,  1744,  and  died  in  Paris  in  1822. 

We  think  it  may  be  said  Vith  confidence  that  the 
blind  have  scarcely  had  a  better  friend  than  Valentine 
Haiiy.  The  characters  that  Haiiy  employed  in  his 
system  of  relief-print  were  very  similar  to  the  ordinary 
Roman  or  English  letters,  they  were  somewhat  modi- 
fied by  Guillie,  but  have  been  entirely  superseded  in 
France  by  the  introduction  of  the  arbitrary  system  of 
M.  Braille,  for  which  see  another  part  of  this  work. 

It  is  not  a  little  singular  that  reading  for  the  blind 
had  been  introduced  into  France  forty-three  years,  and 
into  Prussia  and  Russia  twenty-three  years,  before  the 
art  was  used  in  England,  and  the  strangeness  is  further 
increased  by  the  circumstance  that  the  action  of  the 
French  in  teaching  mechanical  arts  to  the  blind  was 
imitated  in  Liverpool  seven  years  after  it  was  adopted 
in  Paris. 

A  translation  of  a  portion  of  M.  Haiiy's  work  was 
made  by  Dr.  Blacklock,  the  blind  poet,  and  published 
in  the  third  edition  of  his  works;  andM.  Guillie's  book 
was  translated  and  published  in  London  by  Sir  R. 
Phillips,  in  1819.  But  an  English  book  printed  in 
relief,  for  the  use  of  the  blind,  did  not  appear  until 
1827.  The  credit  of  this  achievement  is  entirely  due 
to  James  Gall,  of  Edinburgh. 

And  here  it  may  be  of  interest,  if  we  transcribe  an 
extract  from  the  minutes  of  the  Edinburgh  Blind 
Asylum,  which  bears  on  this  subject : — • 

"  EDINBUEGH,  October  26th,  1827. 

' '  At  a  meeting  of  the  managers  of  the  Blind  Asylum 
Edinburgh,  of  this  date  : 

"  The  meeting  proceeded  to  examine  the  nature  and 
efficiency  of  the  books  lately  printed  for  the  use  of  the 


82  BLINDNESS    AND   THE   BLIND. 

blind.  Some  of  the  boys  belonging  to  the  asylum 
were  introduced,  who,  though  the  books  had  been  ia 
their  possession  only  a  few  weeks,  and  although  they 
had  got  no  regular  teaching,  were  able  readily  to  dis- 
tinguish all  the  letters,  and  easily  discriminated  those 
which  were  likest  to  each  other.  They  were  then,  by 
Dr.  Gordon  and  other  of  the  directors,  made  to  touch 
isolated  words,  in  different  pages  of  the  book,  which 
they  at  once  knew ;  and  they  afterwards  read,  slowly 
but  correctly,  in  different  parts.  By  repeated  trials,  and 
by  varying  the  exercises,  the  directors  were  of  opinion 
that  the  art  promised  to  be  of  the  greatest  practical 
utility  to  the  blind,  who,  it  evidently  appeared,  would  be 
able  to  use  these  books  with  increasing  facility. 

"  Mr.  Gall  also  stated  that  the  apparatus  for  writing 
to  and  by  the  blind,  were  in  a  state  of  considerable 
forwardness.  The  principles  had  been  completely 
settled,  and  found  efficient,  and  all  that  remained  were 
only  minor  points  of  economy,  for  procuring  for  the 
blind,  at  a  low  rate,  the  necessary  requisites.  Some 
of  these  he  exhibited  to  the  meeting.  The  letters  were 
easily  formed  on  common  post  letter  paper,  by  one 
motion  of  the  hand;  and  being  submitted,  one  after 
another,  were  correctly  and  invariably  distinguished 
by  the  blind  boys  present. 

"  The  Directors  cordially  approved  of  what  had  been 
done,  the  expenses  of  which  had  hitherto  cost  nothing 
to  the  public;  and  while  they  proffered  their  own 
patronage,  they  at  the  same  time  earnestly  recom- 
mended Mr.  Gall's  efforts  to  the  encouragement  of  the 
public,  without  which,  from  the  fewness  of  the  reading 
blind,  it  was  evident  he  could  not  proceed." 

In  1828,  a  committee  was  formed  by  the  Eev.  Dr. 
Baird,  the  principal  of  the  University  of  Edinburgh,, 
to  examine  and  report  upon  the  methods  of  reading, 
writing,  etc.  introduced  by  Mr.  Gall.  Dr.  Baird  him- 
self was  a  member  of  this  committee,  and  with  him 
were  associated  Sir  Henry  Jardine,  Professor  Pillans, 


PRINTING   FOR    THE    BLIND.  83 

Professor  Wilson,  and  Robert  Johnston,  secretary  of 
the  Blind  Asylum  of  Edinburgh.  The  proceedings 
were  held  in  the  Hall  of  the  University,  and  the  report 
of  the  committee  expressed  the  strongest  approval 
of  Mr.  Gall's  past  labours  and  future  plans.  A  report 
was  also  issued,  in  the  same  year,  by  a  committee, 
formed  at  the  instance  of  a  public  meeting  held  at 
Glasgow,  which  entirely  endorsed  the  opinions  ex- 
pressed in  the  documents  drawn  up  at  the  Edinburgh 
University  and  Blind  Asylum.  The  Glasgow  Com- 
mittee met  at  the  Blind  Asylum,  and  was  presided 
over  by  the  Very  Reverend  D.  M'Farlane,  Principal 
of  the  College  of  Glasgow,  and  it  must  not  pass  with- 
out notice  that,  among  the  signatures  to  the  report,  is 
found  the  name  of  John  Alston.  The  introduction  of  the 
art  into  London  was  in  1829,  when  Mr.  Gall  visited  the 
metropolis,  and  exhibited  the  acquirements  of  a  pupil  at 
a  meeting  of  the  members  of  the  Sunday  School  Union, 
held  at  the  Poultry  Chapel,  the  Rev.  John  Clayton 
being  in  the  chair.  On  revisiting  London,  in  1831, 
Mr.  Gall  succeeded  in  teaching  several  inmates  of  the 
School  for  the  Indigent  Blind,  St.  George's  Fields, 
Southwark,  to  read  and  write.  For  which  service, 
the  Committee  of  that  Corporation  voted  him  a  bene- 
faction of  fifty  guineas.  Mr.  Gall,  however,  generously 
refusing  to  accept  the  gift,  the  committee  elected  him 
a  Life  Governor  of  the  Institution,  and  decided  that 
a  suitable  present  should  be  tendered  to  Mrs.  Gall. 
On  returning  to  Edinburgh,  our  philanthropist,  in 
January,  1832,  finished  the  Gospel  of  St.  John,  which, 
it  is  believed,  was  the  first  book  of  the  Scriptures 
printed  for  the  use  of  the  blind.  Its  price  was  one 
guinea  per  copy,  and  the  number  of  subscribers  pro- 
cured during  the  six  years  it  was  being  prepared  for 
publication,  only  amounted  to  156.  There  was,  how- 
ever, in  Edinburgh,  an  assisting  fund  for  selling  the 
books  to  the  poor  at  half  price,  but  its  receipts  du- 
ring the  period  only  reached  £176.  The  Gospel  of 

G  2 


84  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

St.  John,  although  finished  in  1832,  was  not  published 
until  1834,  and  its  price  subsequently  became  six 
shillings.  In  1834,  Mr.  Gall  published,  in  common 
print,  for  the  use  of  the  sighted,  "  A  Historical  Sketch 
of  the  Origin  and  Progress  of  Literature  for  the  Blind, 
and  Practical  Hints  and  Recommendations  as  to  their 
Education/  This  work  enters  somewhat  minutely  into 
the  circumstances  connected  with  the  protracted  expe- 
riments preceding  the  introduction  of  his  system  of 
tangible  print,  and  the  little  effect  produced  by  it  on 
the  public  may  perhaps  be  accounted  for  by  the  pro- 
lixity of  its  contents.  , 

The  alphabet  adopted  by  Mr.  Gall  was  the  common 
English  letter,  modified  so  as  to  produce  angles  instead 
of  curves. 

In  addition  to  the  books  above-named,  he  printed 
the  Gospels  of  St.  Matthew,  St.  Mark,  and  St.  Luke, 
the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  some  of  the  Epistles,  and 
several  religious  tracts.  Ths  surface  of  the  embossed 
print  in  the  later  books  is  fretted,  so  as  to  produce  a 
sense  of  roughness  to  the  touch,  which  modification  it 
was  supposed  added  clearness  and  durability  to  the 
print ;  but  it  never  met  with  much  favour  from  finger- 
readers.  In  1838,  Mr.  Gall  again  modified  his  alpha- 
bet, by  bringing  the  shape  of  the  letters  into  greater 
resemblance  to  the  common  type,  and  by  the  use  of 
capitals  in  their  ordinary  places.  He  received  some 
small  assistance  in  his  printing  enterprise  by  grants  of 
money  from  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society, 
and  from  the  Religious  Tract  Society,  but  the  aid 
obtained  was  very  inadequate,  and  it  is  matter  of  sur- 
prise that  out  of  more  than  twenty  institutions,  then 
existing  in  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  for  the  educa- 
tion of  the  blind,  not  one  seriously  adopted  his  system 
of  reading.  He,  however,  broke  up  the  uncongenial 
soil,  and  prepared  it  for  the  labours  of  others.  A  day- 
school  was  established  in  Edinburgh  mainly  by  Mr. 
Gall's  influence,  which  for  a  long  time  adopted  his 


PRINTING    FOR   THE    BLIND.  85 

system  of  reading/ but  has  now  resigned  it,  chiefly,  it 
is  supposed,  for  want  of  books.  In  1837,  appeared  a 
small  volume,  entitled  ( An  Account  of  the  Recent 
Discoveries  which  have  been  made  for  Facilitating  the 
Education  of  the  Blind/  which  was  sold  for  the  benefit 
of  the  above  school,  and  seems  to  have  been  written 
by  Mr.  Gall.  It  was  published  by  his"  son,  who,  some 
years  after,  became  the  senior  partner  in  the  firm  of 
Gall  and  Inglis.  Before  quitting  this  subject  we  can- 
not refrain  from  remarking  on  the  inexplicable  neglect 
with  which  Mr.  Gall  has  been  treated.  Although  he 
was  the  undoubted  reviver  of  tangible  print  in  Europe, 
and  the  introducer  of  the  art  into  Great  Britain,  yet 
writers  who  pretend  to  give  an  account  of  tangible 
typography  can  find  no  place  in  their  books  for  the 
name  of  James  Gall.  And  although  Chambers's  '  Cy- 
clopasdia'  was  published  in  1859,  in  Edinburgh,  near 
to  which  city  Gall  then  lived,  yet  it  makes  no  mention 
of  his  labours,  or  in  any  way  refers  to  his  system  in  its 
article  on  the  blind,  which  is  the  more  remarkable  as 
space  is  found  to  give  specimens  of  the  alphabets  used 
by  some  of  his  successors. 

Without  indorsing  the  views  of  Mr.  Gall  in  every 
respect,  we  must  say  that  the  blind  should  never  forget 
the  man  who  printed  the  first  book  in  English  for  their 
use,  and  that  we  hope  some  day  to  see  a  memorial 
tablet,  or  statue,  placed  in  a  suitable  position  to  his 
memory,  with  an  inscription  adapted  to  the  circum- 
stances of  the  case.  That  Mr.  Gall,  though  unsuccess- 
ful, to  a  very  great  extent,  never  doubted  as  to  the 
ultimate  triumph  of  his  views  is  shown  by  a  letter  ad- 
dressed to  the  author  of  these  pages  in  1854,  in  which 
he  says,  "  I  intend  detaining  this  (letter)  till  I  can  send 
you  a  specimen  of  what  the  literature  for  the  blind  is 
to  arrive  at.  When  ?  is  a  question  for  future  genera- 
tions, but  not  more  certainly  did  Galileo  predict  of  his 
theory  in  astronomy,  or  Bacon  his  theory  of  philosophy, 
or  Newton  his  theory  of  gravitation  than  I  do  for  a 


86  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

successful  literature  for  the  blind,  as  simple,  as  accept- 
able, as  economical,  and  nearly  as  portable  as  the  com- 
mon literature  of  the  day."  In  1832,  the  Edinburgh 
Society  of  Arts  offered  a  gold  medal,  of  the  value  of 
£20,  for  the  best  communication  on  a  method  of  print- 
ing for  the  blind,  in  consequence  of  which  announce- 
ment, nineteen  different  alphabets  were  submitted  to 
the  Society  between  the  9th  of  January,  1832,  and  the 
25th  of  February,  1835.  Of  this  number,  sixteen  were 
of  what  is  called  a  purely  arbitrary  character,  i.  e., 
were  not  formed  from  the  Roman,  or  common  English 
alphabet. 

The  problem  the  society  submitted  for  solution  was, 
the  best  means  to  produce  cheapness  and  tangibility 
in  connection  with  an  alphabet,  suited  alike  to  the 
fingers  of  the  blind  and  the  eyes  of  the  sighted.  As 
to  the  propriety  of  putting  the  subject  in  this  form,  we 
do  not  propose  now  to  consider,  this  part  of  our  book 
being  strictly  historical.  We  shall,  however,  hereafter 
attempt  to  give  an  analysis  of  the  subject,  with  a  view 
of  employing  the  experience  of  the  past  for  the  im- 
provement of  the  future.  Of  the  nineteen  competitors 
for  the  gold  medal  above-named,  only  two  were  blind, 
Alexander  Hay  (the  teacher  of  Greek  and  Latin),  and 
Robert  Milne  (one  of  the  inventors  of  writing  by  means 
of  a  string  alphabet),  but  their  propositions  met  with 
no  favour ;  Mr.  Gall  was  also  among  the  unsuccessful 
candidates.  The  investigations  of  the  Edinburgh  So- 
ciety of  Arts  seem  to  have  been  conducted  with  great 
deliberation;  the  medal  being  offered  in  1832,  com- 
munications being  received  up  to  1835,  circulars  and 
specimens  of  the  different  alphabets  being  sent  to  the 
various  blind  schools  in  1 836,  and  the  decision  arrived 
at  in  1837.  The  advice  followed  by  the  Society  of  Arts 
is  said  to  have  been  given  by  the  Rev.  W.  Taylor,  of 
York,  and  Mr.  Alston,  of  Glasgow,  by  whose  recom- 
mendation the  medal  was  awarded  to  Dr.  Edmund  Fry, 
of  Type  Street,  Chiswell  Street,  London,  whose  alpha- 


PRINTING    FOR   THE    BLIND.  87 

"bet  consisted  of  the  ordinary  capital  letters,  deprived 
of  their  serifs,  or  small  strokes. 

It  may  be  observed  that  although  the  alphabets  were 
sent  for  examination  to  the  different  schools  for  the 
blind,  yet  as  the  inmates  of  these  establishments  were 
all  young,  their  opinion  was  of  little  value,  nine-tenths 
of  those  without  sight  being  adults. 

ME.  ALSTON. 

In  1836,  the  Eev.  W.  Taylor  began  to  print,  in  York, 
with  Fry's  type,  and  on  October  6,  of  the  same  year, 
Mr.  Alston  exhibited  his  first  specimens  at  a  public 
examination  of  the  pupils  at  the  Glasgow  Institution, 
after  which  he  made  an  appeal  for  contributions  for  a 
printing-fund,  which  met  with  a  hearty  response,  espe- 
cially from  the  ladies  of  Glasgow,  and  he  issued  a  few 
elementary  books  in  1837.  With  such  zeal  did  Mr. 
Alston  pursue  his  work,  that  the  whole  of  the  New 
Testament  was  embossed  in  the  next  year,  and  in 
December,  1840,  he  completed  the  printing  of  the  Old 
Testament,  the  work  being  accelerated  by  a  grant  of 
£400  by  the  Lords  of  her  Majesty's  Treasury.  This 
Bible  was  divided  into  nineteen  volumes,  but  as  only 
200  or  250  copies  were  printed,  when  the  first  edition 
was  exhausted  no  supply  of  books  could  be  procured. 
The  size  of  the  type  used  was  very  small,  and  the  print 
was  afterwards  condemned  by  many  of  those  who  had 
expressed  approval  at  the  commencement  of  the  under- 
taking. The  Old  Testament  was  divided  into  fifteen, 
and  the  New  Testament  into  four  volumes,  the  former 
being  sold  for  £7.  10s.,  and  the  latter  for  £2.  The 
other  works  printed  at  Glasgow  were  the  Psalms  and 
Paraphrases  (Scotch  version),  the  metrical  Psalms 
by  Tait  and  Brady,  and  an  English  Grammar;  also 
some  smaller  books,  consisting  of  catechisms  of  the 
Church  of  England,  and  of  the  Church  of  Scotland; 
the  English  Liturgy,  '  History  of  the  Bible,'  Todd's 
•*  Lectures/  '  Meditations  on  the  Sacrament,'  '  Selec- 


38  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

tions  from  Eminent  Writers/  '  Selections  of  Poetry/ 
'  Fables/  a  '  Musical  Catechism  with  tunes/  a  '  Descrip- 
tion of  London/  a  '  Selection  of  Scotch  Songs  with 
embossed  tunes/  'Introduction  to  Astronomy/  and 
'  Outlines  of  Natural  History  (Quadrupeds) .'  All  these 
works  are  now  out  of  print,  and  since  the  death  of  Mr. 
Alston,  which  happened  August  20,  1846,  nothing  has 
issued  from  the  Glasgow  press,  save  a  few  reprints. 

On  visiting  Glasgow,  in  1864,  the  writer  was  grati- 
fied to  find  a  bust  of  Mr.  Alston  erected  in  the  Blind 
Asylum,  with  an  inscription,  stating  that  he  was  the 
printer  of  the  first  Bible  for  the  blind.  In  1853,  an 
attempt  was  made  to  resuscitate  "Alston's  system/* 
as  the  mode  of  printing  in  capitals  has  usually  been 
called.  A  fund  was  set  on  foot  by  the  Rev.  G.  B. 
Johns,  Mr.  Johnson,  and  other  gentlemen  connected 
with  the  School  for  the  Indigent  Blind,  St.  George's 
Fields,  London,  and  the  Gospel  of  St.  John,  the  Prayer 
Book  version  of  the  Psalms,  '  Sunlight  in  a  Cloud/  a 
Brief  Grammar,  and  Robinson  Crusoe,  etc.  were  issued. 
The  vitality  of  the  effort,  however,  soon  died  out,  and 
at  present  it  may  be  said,  that  "Alston's  system"  has 
almost  ceased  to  exist. 

LUCAS'S  SYSTEM. 

Mr.  Lucas,  of  Bristol,  who  had  been  engaged  in 
teaching  short-hand  writing  for  many  years,  succeeded, 
in  1835,  in  forming  a  stenographic  system  of  reading 
for  the  use  of  the  blind.  This  plan,  in  its  details,  re- 
sembled very  much  Byron's  system  of  short-hand. 
Mr.  Lucas  had,  for  some  timo,  interested  himself  in 
embossing  short  lessons  for  some  blind  persons  with 
whom  he  was  acquainted,  but  his  attention  was  more 
directly  turned  to  the  subject  from  seeing  a  letter,  re- 
ceived by  a  gentleman  in  Bristol  from  Lady  Charlotte 
Erskine,  pointing  out  the  necessity  that  existed  for  a 
simple  mode  of  printing  in  relief.  The  system  of  Mr. 
Lucas  consisted  in  the  use  of  the  straight  line,  the- 


FEINTING   FOE   THE    BLIND.  89 

circle  and  the  point,  in  the  following  manner,  viz. : 
the  straight  line  being  placed  perpendicularly,  hori- 
zontally, obliquely  to  the  left,  and  obliquely  to  the 
right,  gave  four  characters.  By  the  addition  of 'the 
dot  to  either  side  of  these  four  characters,  sixteen  addi- 
tional signs  were  procured. 

The  circle,  on  being  divided  into  four  parts,  gave  as 
many  different  characters,  and  on  placing  the  dot  at 
the  extremities  of  these,  eight  additional  ones  were  ob- 
tained ;  we  thus  find  that  twenty  signs  were  procured 
from  the  straight  line,  and  twelve  by  the  addition  of 
the  circle,  making  thirty-two.  An  additional  character 
was  obtained  by  the  use  of  a  very  short  perpendicular 
line,  and  two  others,  by  employing  a  semicircle  to  the 
left,  and  one  to  the  right  smaller  than  those  above- 
named,  thus  adding  three  other  characters,  making 
thirty-five,  and  the  use  of  the  circle  itself,  and  of  the 
dot,  completed  the  number  thirty-seven;  twenty-six 
of  these  signs  were  used  for  the  letters  of  the  alphabet, 
ten  for  figures,  which  also  represented  double  letters, 
and  one  for  et  cetera,  the  stops  being  shown  by  the 
point  being  placed  at  the  bottom  of  the  line.  Each 
letter  indicated  one  or  more  words  in  general  use,  as 
A,  and,  any ;  B,  by,  but ;  C,  can,  Christ ;  D,  do,  down, 
debt,  etc.  Some  words  were  represented  by  the  use  of 
the  first  two  letters,  as  Br,  brother;  Gl,  glory;  PI, 
pleasure.  Common  prefixes  and  terminations  were  in- 
dicated by  one  letter,  as  C,  con ;  B,  ble ;  and  in  gene- 
ral only  such  letters  as  were  considered  necessary  to 
indicate  the  sound  of  the  word  were  employed  as  Snt, 
sent;  Jon,  John;  Lit,  light.  By  the  means  of  this 
system  great  fluency  of  reading  was  obtained,  and  it  is 
certain  that  its  introduction  enabled  adults  to  read, 
although  their  fingers  were  hardened  by  daily  toil; 
but  the  plan  had  particular  drawbacks,  of  which  we 
shall  not  now  especially  treat. 

On  February  12th,  1836,  when  Mr.  Lucas  was  seventy- 
two  years  old,  he  m  succeeded  in  forming  a  society  to 


'90  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

carry  out  his  plans.  The  association  was  entitled,  the 
Bristol  Society  for  Embossing  and  Circulating  the 
Authorized  Version  of  the  Bible  for  the  Use  of  the 
Blind ;  in  connection  with  the  organization  was  a  day- 
school,  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester  and  Bristol  was  the 
patron,  and  Lieut.-General  Orde  was  president;  and 
we  note  with  pleasure  that  at  the  public  meeting  held 
at  Bristol,  the  resolution  proposing  that  the  society 
should  be  formed  was  moved  by  the  Rev.  Fountain 
Elwin,  a  gentleman,  who,  with  his  daughter,  will  ever 
be  remembered  with  the  most  sincere  gratitude  for 
truly  Christian  efforts  in  aid  of  the  blind  and  of  the 
deaf  and  dumb,  carried  on  at  Bath,  through  many 
years  of  patient  labour.  Mr.  Lucas  visited  various 
towns  in  the  west  and  central  counties,  in  the  prosecu- 
tion of  his  laudable  object,  and  he  even  extended  his 
•operations  to  London.  In  July,  1837,  he  published  the 
Gospel  of  St.  John,  4to,  containing  sixty-six  pages, 
with  twenty-seven  lines  on  a  page,  price  3s.  and  4s.  6d. 
The  advent  of  this  volume  filled  him  with  great  joy, 
but  his  advanced  age,  and  the  nervous  excitement 
caused  by  incessant  conflict  with  advocates  of  other 
methods  of  reading  by  touch,  together  with  the  change 
from  private  life  to  a  public  career,  so  acted  on  his 
constitution  that  he  passed  away  from  this  world  with- 
out having  realized  his  expectation  of  seeing  the  Scrip- 
tures, and  a  library  of  general  utility,  printed  on  his 
system.  The  volume  issued  by  Mr.  Lucas  contained 
so  many  defects,  even  in  the  opinion  of  the  friends  of 
the  system,  that  in  the  following  year  when  the  Acts 
of  the  Apostles  was  being  prepared  for  the  press,  it 
was  determined  to  employ  fewer  contractions,  to  have 
greater  space  between  the  letters  and  words,  and  to 
mark  the  verses  by  the  use  of  figures.  These  altera- 
tions so  modified  the  system  that  the  orthography  was 
almost  entirely  changed,  and  we  must  say,  greatly  for 
the  better.  The  Acts  of  the  Apostles  was  published 
in  1839,  price  9s.  and  10s.,  and  the  Gospels  of  St. 


PRINTING   FOE   THE    BLIND.  91 

Matthew  and  St.  Luke,  price  of  each  8s.  Qd.,  were  also 
issued;  the  last-named  book  contained  an  alteration 
with  regard  to  the  stops  which  was  anything  but 
satisfactory. 

In  1840,  appeared  the  Gospel  of  St.  Mark,  price 
bs.  6d.,  which  was  the  last  work  published  at  Bristol, 
the  society  in  that  city  being  dissolved  in  the  same 
year,  and  the  type,  etc.  made  over  to  the  London 
Society  for  Teaching  the  Blind  to  Read,  which  had 
been  established  in  1838,  principally  by  the  exertions 
of  Mrs.  Percival  Johnstone  and  her  relative,  Lady 
Brodie,  wife  of  the  eminent  surgeon. 

The  printing  enterprise  now  entirely  devolved  on 
the  London  Society,  and  in  1841  they  published  the 
Epistle  to  the  Romans,  the  orthography  of  which  was 
of  the  most  confused  kind,  oscillating  constantly  be- 
tween the  method  of  Lucas,  as  used  in  St.  John,  and 
the  ideas  of  the  Bristol  committee  as  carried  out  in 
the  other  gospels.  The  embossing  of  the  Epistle  to 
the  Komans  was  entrusted  to  Messrs.  Seeley,  of  Fleet 
Street  and  Thames  Ditton;  but  in  1842  the  committee 
secured  the  services  of  Mr.  Eeading,  who  in  that  year 

Erinted  the  Bible  version  of  the  Psalms  in  two  vo- 
imes.  Here  again  the  orthography  was  altered,  but 
it  was  more  regularly  carried  out  than  in  the  Epistle 
to  the  Romans.  About  this  time  the  Society  was  much 
engaged  in  controversies  with  the  advocates  of  other 
systems,  and  especially  with  Mr.  Frere,  the  inventor 
of  the  phonetic  mode.  Application  having  been  made 
by  both  parties  for  assistance  to  Lord  Whamcliffe,  the 
then  President  of  the  Committee  of  Her  Majesty's 
Privy  Council  for  Education,  something  like  a  quarrel 
arose  between  the  applicants  on  the  merits  of  their 
rival  plans,  and  some  recriminative  letters,  which  were 
published,  still  further  embittered  the  strife.  Desirous 
of  methodizing  their  system  of  reading,  the  committee 
in  1843  entrusted  the  arrangement  of  their  publica- 
tions to  the  Rev.  J.  W.  Gowering,  a  blind  clergyman, 


92  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

who  had  formerly  used  Frere's  method.  This  gentle- 
man drew  up  regular  tables  of  contractions,  which 
differed  in  many  respects  from  those  hitherto  em- 
ployed. Generally  the  alterations  were  improvements, 
but  the  introduction  of  the  mode  of  spelling  words 
phonetically  was  a  sad  innovation.  Mr.  Lucas  and 
his  immediate  successors  merely  omitted  letters  they 
considered  unnecessary  to  sound  the  word,  but  Mr. 
Gowring  not  only  took  away  the  original  letters,  but 
he  also  substituted  others  in  their  places, — for  instance, 
the  word  'brought/  according  to  Lucas  was  'brot/ 
but  Mr.  Gowring  made  it  'brawt/  the  word  ' taught' 
was  'taut/  but  Mr.  Gowring  thought  it  an  improve- 
ment to  make  it  '  tawt.'  These  and  similar  errors  of 
judgment  are  very  much  to  be  deplored ;  and  when  it 
is  added  that  in  the  subsequent  books  published,  a 
word  was  often  differently  spelt,  not  only  in  the  same 
book  but  often  in  the  same  page,  it  may  easily  be  ima- 
gined to  what  a  state  of  confusion  Lucas's  system  was 
ultimately  reduced.  It  is  extremely  painful  to  the 
writer  to  make  these  strictures,  but  he  feels  it  his 
duty  to  give  such  information  as  may  warn  future 
caterers  for  the  blind  to  avoid  the  sunken  rocks  that 
lie  too  frequently  beneath  the  smooth  waters  of  pleas- 
ing experiment.  In  confirmation  of  the  above  state- 
ments a  few  examples  are  now  given. 

In  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles  (second  edition,  pub- 
lished 1845),  9th  chapter,  32nd  verse,  the  word  '  quar- 
ters' is  spelt  '  qrtrs.'  In  the  28th  chapter,  7th  verse, 
it  is  spelt  'qartrs.'  In  the  4th  chapter  and  30th 
verse,  'thine'  is  spelt  at  full  length  (thine),  but  in  the 
8th  chapter,  22nd  verse,  it  is  spelt  'thin.'  In  the 
15th  chapter  and  8th  verse,  the  word  '  bear*  is  spelt 
'  bare/  but  in  the  10th  verse,  in  the  same  page  and 
only  six  lines  below,  it  is  spelt  '  bear.'  In  the  First 
Epistle  to  Timothy  (first  edition,  1844)  3rd  chapter, 
verse  3rd,  the  word  'wine'  is  put  'wine;  in  the  8th 
verse,  in  the  same  page,  it  is  'win.'  In  the  Epistle 


PRINTING    FOE    THE    BLIND.  93 

to  the  Hebrews,  which  is  bound  in  the  same  volume, 
1st  chapter,  2nd  verse,  the  word  'made'  is  spelt  'mad.' 
Verse  4,  on  the  same  page  and  only  five  lines  distant, 
it  is  put  'made/  In  the  third  edition  of  St.  John, 
published  in  1856,  2nd  chapter,  3rd  verse,  the  word 
'wine'  is  put  'win.'  In  the  4th  chapter  and 46th  verse 
it  is  spelt  'wine.'  In  the  1st  chapter  of  the  same 
Gospel  and  the  8th  verse,  the  word  'bear'  is  spelt 
'  bear,'  but  thirteen  lines  further  on  the  same  page 
it  is  put  '  bare.'  In  the  occasional  services  of  the 
Church  of  England,  published  1854,  in  the  first  line  of 
Thanksgiving  for  Fair  Weather,  'hast'  is  spelt  'hst/ 
and  in  the  next  line  but  one  it  is  put  '  hast.'  In  the 
title  of  the  Thanksgiving  for  Peace  and  Deliverance 
from  our  Enemies,  '  deliverance'  is  spelt  '  dlivranc/ 
and  three  lines  below  it  is  put  '  dlivrnc.' 

The  foregoing  examples  speak  for  themselves,  and 
render  comment  unnecessary.  But  we  may  remark 
that  they  are  only  a  few  out  of  a  great  number  that 
could  be  given,  and  that  they  are  taken  by  chance 
and  are  not  in  any  way  the  result  of  special  selection. 
The  printing  of  the  whole  of  the  Scriptures  was  com- 
pleted on  Lucas's  system  in  1853,  and  the  entire 
Bible  of  the  Old  and  New  Testament  is  now  sold  for 
£6.  6s.  3d.  to  subscribers  to  the  London  Society  for 
Teaching  the  Blind  to  Read, — the  price  to  non-sub- 
scribers being  £8.  8s.  4<7.  Various  modifications  of  the 
rules  of  the  system  have  been  made,  the  last  formal 
alteration  being  effected  in  1858,  and  the  general 
bearing  of  these  changes  has  been  to  lessen  the  num- 
ber of  contractions.  Too  much  praise  cannot  be  given 
to  the  committee  of  the  above-named  Society  for  the 
liberal  manner  in  which,  at  some  periods  of  the  history 
of  the  Institution,  they  have  gratuitously  distributed 
the  Holy  Scriptures  to  the  poor ;  and  it  is  much  to  bo 
regretted  that  of  late  years  the  utility  of  the  Society 
in  this  direction  has  been  greatly  lessened,  and  we 
deliberately  give  it  as  our  opinion  that  far  more  good 


94  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

was  done  when  the  efforts  of  the  managers  of  the  In- 
stitution were  directed  to  seeking  the  blind  in  their 
obscure  abodes,  teaching  them  to  read,  and  presenting 
them  with  copies  of  the  Word  of  God  than  now,  when 
nearly  all  the  energies  of  the  Society  are  exhausted  in 
the  maintenance  of  a  capacious  building  intended  to  a 
considerable  extent  for  the  reception  of  those  of  the 
blind  whose  friends  are  able  to  contribute  largely  to- 
wards their  support. 

FREKE'S  SYSTEM. 

Two  years  after  the  invention  of  the  system  by  Mr. 
Lucas,  when  Alston  had  just  completed  the  New  Tes- 
tament in  Roman  type,  Mr.  Hartley  Frere  began  his 
labours  for  the  blind  by  the  introduction  of  an  em- 
bossed phonetic  alphabet.  As  early  as  1802,  Mr. 
Frere  had  contrived  an  alphabet  for  the  sighted, 
founded  on  an  arrangement  of  sounds,  and  in  1837 
having  his  attention  directed  to  tangible  reading,  he 
began  in  London  to  print  books  in  relief.  His  alpha- 
bet consists  of  thirty-four  characters,  to  indicate  as 
many  sounds, — vowels,  in  some  instances,  being  shown 
by  dots  at  the  top,  middle,  or  bottom  of  the  line ;  the 
characters  consist  of  straight  lines,  semicircles,  and 
hooked  lines.  The  ten  numerals  are  indicated  by  the 
common  English  figures.  As  any  attempt  to  give  an 
idea  of  the  system  in  this  place  would  not  only  be  in- 
sufficient, but  might  also  lead  to  a  misconception  of  a 
plan  which,  although  we  cannot  recommend,  yet  pos- 
sesses considerable  merit,  we  shall  simply  remark  that 
the  characters  are  taken  from  Gurney's  method  of  short- 
hand, and  that  they  are  used  in  a  similar  manner  to 
that  employed  in  all  phonetic  systems.  It  is  espe- 
cially useful  in  enabling  persons  entirely  uneducated 
to  learn  to  read  in  a  short  space  of  time,  but  it  tends 
very  much  to  vitiate  pronunciation,  and  of  punctua- 
tion it  has  none. 


PRINTING   FOE   THE    BLIND.  95 

Mr.  Frere  was  the  first  to  introduce  the  practice  of 
placing  the  lines  of  reading  alternately  from  left  to 
right  and  from  right  to  left.  As  to  the  advantage  of 
this  mode,  we  will  not  now  inquire,  but  it  was  imitated 
with  a  slight  alteration  by  Mr.  Moon. 

Mr.  Frere  also  invented  a  system  of  embossing 
from  stereotyped  plates,  formed  by  wire  characters 
being  soldered  upon  sheets  of  tin,  thus  avoiding  the 
necessity  of  printing  off  any  more  copies  of  a  work 
than  the  number  actually  required  for  immediate  use. 
These  plates  also  give  additional  hardness  to  the  re- 
lief, and  the  invention  must  be  considered  as  the 
greatest  improvement  effected  in  embossing  since  the 
days  of  Haiiy.  This  mode  of  stereotyping  has  been 
adopted  by  Moon  and  Pumfrey,  and  the  present  writer 
has  also  availed  himself  of  it  in  printing  Hamilton's 
'Instruction  Book  for  the  Pianoforte.' 

In  1838,  Mr.  Frere  succeeded  in  establishing  the 
London  and  Blackheath  Association  for  the  purpose 
of  carrying  out  his  plan  for  teaching  the  blind  to  read, 
but  unlike  the  London  society,  formed  in  the  same 
year  to  carry  out  Mr.  Lucas's  ideas,  it  was  not  doomed 
to  take  root,  but  after  a  few  years  it  passed  away, 
leaving,  however,  behind  it  stereotyped  plates  of  se- 
veral books  of  Holy  Writ,  which,  owing  to  Mr.  Frere' s 
admirable  system  of  embossing,  will  transmit  the 
fruits  of  the  London  and  Blackheath  Society  to  coming 
generations. 

The  singleness  of  heart  shown  by  Mr.  Frere  in  his 
exertions  for  the  blind  is  worthy  of  the  highest  com- 
mendation. His  views  were  confined ;  but  although 
narrow  they  were  sincere,  and  sincere  narrowness  is 
better  than  heartless  breadth. 

Mr.  Frere  died  at  a  very  advanced  age,  leaving 
several  trustees  of  his  system,  among  whom  was  Dr. 
Armitage,  who,  however,  resigned  his  trust  a  short 
time  after  being  called  upon  to  act. 


96  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

The  Bible  has  not  been  completed  in  Frere's  sys- 
tem ;  but  the  books  printed  comprise  the  New  Testa- 
ment and  the  greater  part  of  the  Old. 

BOOKS   PRINTED  IN  ROMAN   CAPITALS  AND  SMALL 
LETTERS. 


We  have  seen,  in  an  earlier  part  of  this  work,  how 
the  Kev.  W.  Taylor,  in  1836,  approved  of  the  ordinary 
capital  letters  as  modified  by  Dr.  Fry.  Mr.  Taylor 
then  thought  that  uniformity  in  the  height  of  the  cha- 
racters was  one  advantage  of  that  system.  He,  how- 
ever, subsequently  found  that,  instead  of  being  an 
advantage,  it  was  really  a  hindrance.  He  thereupon 
modified  his  views,  and  advocated  the  adoption  of  the 
common  English  alphabet,  including  both  the  capital 
and  small  letters. 

About  the  year  1838,  some  books  were  printed  pri- 
vately in  this  type  at  York,  by  Mr.  W.  D.  Littledale, 
a  blind  gentleman,  whose  constant  exertions  in  behalf 
of  his  fellow-sufferers  are  worthy  of  all  praise.  In  the 
following  year,  Mr.  Lambert,  of  York,  published  a 
monthly  magazine,  each  number  of  which  consisted  of 
six  pages  quarto,  and  sold  for  6tZ.,  it  was  issued  for  two 
years,  but  at  the  end  of  1840,  pecuniary  considerations 
caused  it  to  be  discontinued.  The  articles  were  ad- 
mirably selected,  and  the  enterprise  deserved  a  better 
fate. 

In  1854  an  attempt  was  made  to  resuscitate  the 
magazine  by  Messrs.  J.  E.  Taylor  and  Co.,  of  Little 
Queen  Street,  London,  but  after  an  existence  of  about 
eighteen  months,  this  second  issue  came  to  an  end. 
Each  number  of  the  magazine  published  in  London, 
consisted  of  twelve  pages,  while  the  price  was  6d.  as 
before.  Messrs.  J.  E.  Taylor  and  Co.  also  printed  in  the 
same  type,  at  the  expense  of  the  Bristol  Asylum  for  the 
Blind,  a  Geography,  price  5s. ;  '  The  Life  of  James 


PRINTING   FOR   THE    BLIND.  07 

Watt/  3s.,  'The  Sermon  on  the  Mount/  2s.,  and  an 
elementary  book.  F.  W.  Clark  also  published  the 
letter-press  of  the  Six  Books  of  Euclid,  several  volumes 
of  Ainsworth's  Latin  Dictionary,  and  some  smaller 
works  in  this  type.  Mr.  Clark,  although  blind,  printed 
the  works  himself,  and  the  way  in  which  they  are  exe- 
cuted does  him  great  credit. 

Owing  to  the  untiring  exertions  of  the  Eev.  W. 
Taylor,  this  mode  of  reading  was  again  called  into 
existence  in  the  year  1868,  by  the  formation,  at  Wor- 
cester, of  an  association  entitled  the  Society  for  Pro- 
viding Cheap  Literature  for  the  Blind,  of  which  the 
Bishop  of  Worcester  became  president.  The  society, 
up  to  the  present  time,  March  1871,  has  issued  the  fol- 
lowing publications,  viz. : — 

The  Proverbs  of  Solomon 16 

Epistles  of  St.  Peter,  1st  and  2nd      ..09 

Epistles  of  St.  James 06 

Epistle  of  St.  Paul  .to  the  Hebrews    ..16 

Chambers' s  Heading  Book 10 

Miscellaneous  Reading  Book,  2nd  edition     0     6 
Easy  Reading  Lessons,  2nd  edition  ..03 

Virgil,  ^Eneid,  lib.  iv 26- 

French  Grammar  (the  Parts  of  Speech)     3     6 
German  Grammar  (the  Parts  of  Speech)     3     6 

Lives  of  Noted  Men 10 

Gospel  according  to  St.  Mark       ...     2     6 

Prayer  Book,  Psalms 30 

Also  a  Compendium  of  English  History. 

The  Society  for  Providing  Cheap  Literature  for  the 
Blind  is  in  close  connection  with  the  College  for  Blind 
Sons  of  Gentlemen,  Worcester;  and  we  are  sure  that 
many  of  our  readers  will  learn  with  regret  of  the  death 
of  the  Rev.  W.  Taylor,  which  took  place  at  Worcester, 
in  the  year  1870. 

Mr.  Taylor  may  be  considered  as  the  founder  of  both 
the  college  and  the  Society  for  Providing  Cheap  Litera- 


98  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

ture ;  in  him  the  blind  have  lost  a  sincere  friend.  For 
more  than  half  a  century  he  took  a  deep  interest  in 
their  welfare,  and,  during  the  greater  part  of  that  time, 
was  the  foremost  champion  of  the  embossed  Koman 
type. 

FEINTING  BY  W.  MOON. 

Mr.  MOOD,  who  was  for  some  years  engaged  in  teach- 
ing the  blind  to  read,  on  Frere's  plan,  in  his  capacity 
as  master  of  the  Blind  School,  99,  Church  Street, 
Brighton,  commenced  about  the  year  1845  to  form 
a  new  alphabet.  In  1847  he  printed  his  first  book, 
and  entertained  the  design  of  issuing  a  monthly  maga- 
zine, which  was,  however,  abandoned  after  the  publica- 
tion of  a  few  numbers.  The  alphabet  adopted  was 
formed  chiefly  from  Mr.  Frere's  characters,  and  con- 
tained at  least  sixteen  letters,  which  were  only  Frere's 
signs  with  other  names.  Frere's  plan  of  reading  alter- 
nately from  left  to  right,  and  from  right  to  left,  was 
acted  upon  with  slight  alteration,  as  well  as  his  mode 
of  stereotyping,  as  already  stated  in  a  previous  article. 

We  are  aware  that  Mr.  Moon  claims  all  this  as  origi- 
nal, and  states  the  discovery  of  it  in  such  a  way  as 
would  make  it  appear  to  have  been  almost  miraculous. 
How  he  can  do  this  we  are  at  a  loss  to  understand, 
but  we  do  know  that  it  is  the  office  of  a  writer  of  an 
historical  sketch  to  state  facts  impartially  and  distinctly, 
and  our  duty  in  this  respect  we  must  endeavour  to  per- 
form. About  a  year  or  two  after  the  introduction  of 
his  system,  an  alteration  was  made  in  the  alphabet, 
the  letters  m  and  y  being  represented  by  fresh  charac- 
ters, and  various  modifications  being  made  in  several 
other  letters  and  numerals.  In  this  system,  twenty-six 
characters  are  used  to  indicate  letters,  ten  for  figures, 
and  one  for  the  $*.  The  words  are  in  general  spelt  at 
full  length,  but  nine  simple  contractions  are  employed. 
The  plan  certainly  possesses  the  merit  of  enabling  per- 


PRINTING    FOR    THE    BLIND.  99 

sons  to  learn  to  read  in  a  short  space  of  time,  and  it 
has  been  of  incalculable  service  in  bringing  thousands 
of  the  blind  in  contact  with  the  word  of  God,  who  pro- 
bably, but  for  its  means,  would  never  have  enjoyed  that 
invaluable  privilege;  but  ease  of  acquirement  is  not 
everything  that  is  to  be  desired,  and  therefore,  while 
rejoicing  at  the  good  accomplished,  our  satisfaction 
should  not  induce  us  to  overlook  defects.  It  is  not, 
however,  proposed  here  to  enter  into  an  analysis  of 
the  system,  but  something  will  be  said  on  this  branch 
of  the  subject  anon.  We  have  observed  that  the  first 
book  was  printed  by  Mr.  Moon  in  1847  ;  this  was  done 
by  movable  type,  the  expense  of  which  was  borne  by 
a  gentleman,  who,  we  believe,  was  the  late  Mr.  Chres- 
wick,  of  St.  John's  Wood;  he,  like  Mr.  Moon,  was 
without  sight.  The  stereotyping  of  the  New  Testament 
was  commenced  in  1848,  and  completed  in  little  more 
than  three  years,  the  whole  Bible  being  finished  in 
1858.  The  price  of  the  New  Testament,  stitched, 
was  £5.  Is.  6d.,  and  the  Old  Testament,  £15.  15s., 
extra  being  charged  for  binding.  The  cost  of  stereo- 
typing was  defrayed  by  public  subscription,  and  grants 
from  the  British  and  Foreign  Bible  Society.  A  build- 
ing was  erected  for  Mr.  Moon,  at  Brighton,  by  sub- 
scription, in  1856.  The  Committee  of  the  British  and 
Foreign  Bible  Society,  feeling  that  the  cost  of  the 
books  was  excessive,  commenced  themselves,  in  1865, 
to  emboss  the  Bible,  which  now  may  be  procured  for 
£8.  11s.  7d.  This  induced  Mr.  Moon,  in  1869,  to 
reduce  the  price  of  his  books,  so  that  the  entire  Bible 
is  now  sold  by  him  for  £6 ;  and  in  this  enterprise  he 
was  assisted  by  a  special  subscription.  In  the  books 
printed  by  the  Bible  Society,  the  common  English 
numerals,  slightly  modified,  are  used  instead  of  those 
employed  by  Moon. 

Various  societies  have  been  formed  in  different  loca- 
lities, for  teaching  the  blind  to  read  on  this  system  at 
their  own  homes.  The  scheme  was  set  on  foot  in  Lon- 

H  2 


100  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

don,  by  Miss  Graham,  in  1856,  and  has  since  been 
extended  to  every  considerable  town  in  the  kingdom. 
At  first,  sighted  instructors  were  employed,  but  of  late 
years  the  example  of  the  Association  for  Promoting 
the  General  Welfare  of  the  Blind  has  been  followed, 
and  the  work  is  now  principally  carried  on  by  teachers 
without  sight.  The  plan  adopted  is,  for  an  instructor 
to  call  periodically  on  the  blind  at  their  own  homes, 
to  teach  those  to  read  who  require  instruction,  and  to 
lend  books  to  the  more  advanced  pupils,  which  books 
are  exchanged  for  others  when  the  teacher  again  visits 
the  neighbourhood. 

This  plan  was  proposed,  by  the  writer  of  these 
pages,  in  1851,  to  the  managers  of  the  London  Society 
for  Teaching  the  Blind  to  Eead  on  Lucas's  System, 
but  the  suggestion  was  not  deemed  worthy  of  notice. 
He,  however,  himself  commenced  a  lending  library  in 
1854,  which  was  attended  with  much  good.  Mr.  Gall, 
in  his  work,  recommends  the  establishment  of  such 
libraries,  but  of  this  the  writer  was  not  then  aware. 
Specimens  of  about  fifty  languages  have  been  printed 
in  Moon's  system,  but  in  general,  the  specimens  con- 
sist of  only  a  few  pages. 

ABORTIVE  INVENTIONS  FOR  READING. 
THE  SYSTEM  BY  G.  A.  HUGHES. 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing  modes  of  reading,  va- 
rious plans  have  been  proposed,  which  have  never  got 
beyond  the  realms  of  theory,  or  have  only  had  an  ephe- 
meral existence.  The  chief  of  these  is  that  suggested 
by  the  late  Mr.  G.  A.  Hughes,  of  Ramsgate,  which  con- 
sisted in  placing  a  small  dot,  and  one  of  a  larger  size, 
in  different  positions,  so  as  to  represent  all  the  letters 
and  numerals.  Its  simplicity  made  it  easily  applicable 
to  embossing  by  hand,  but  it  possessed  certain  radical 
defects  which  prevented  it  obtaining  even  a  temporary 


FEINTING    FOE   THE    BLIND.  101 

success.  In  1843,  when  Mr.  Hughes  had  been  blind 
about  six  years,  he  published,  at  Ramsgate  and  London, 
a  work  entitled  '  The  New  Punctiuncula  Stenographic 
System  of  Embossing/  This  work  consisted  of  ele- 
mentary lessons,  with  embossed  specimens.  In  1847, 
appeared  '  First  Lessons  for  the  Blind/  in  Hughes's 
raised  characters,  and  in  1848  was  published  a  book, 
printed  in  relief,  being  an  explanation  of  his  system 
of  embossed  music.  In  the  later  years  of  his  life  he 
seems  to  have  liked  his  own  system  so  little  that  he 
invented  another,  so  that  there  really  are  two  modes  of 
reading  in  existence  by  Gr.  A.  Hughes;  neither  of  them, 
however,  is  free  from  grave  errors.  Hughes's  method 
of  writing  and  reading  is  supposed  by  many  to  have 
been  an  imitation  of  the  system  of  M.  Braille,  of  Paris, 
but  there  are  no  solid  reasons  for  this  opinion.  Mr. 
Hughes  died  in  1863,  in  London,  after  six  months' 
illness,  and  we  regret  to  add  that  some  time  before  his 
death  he  was  reduced  to  great  distress.  His  system, 
if  ever  it  may  be  said  to  have  existed,  has  now  quite 
disappeared.  It,  nevertheless,  suggests  several  valuable 
points,  and  many  persons  have  succeeded  better  than 
Mr.  Hughes  who  deserved  it  less. 

THE    SYSTEM    BY   BENIOWSKI. 

The  late  Major  Beniowski,  (who  between  the  years 
1840  and  1860  caused  some  sensation  in  London  with, 
his  system  of  artificial  memory,  a  mode  of  phreiio- 
typics,  and  his  improved  method  of  setting  and  dis- 
tributing type,)  in  prosecution  of  the  versatility  com- 
mon to  his  nation  (Poland),  turned  his  attention  to 
the  blind.  In  the  opinion  of  the  gallant  major,  all 
that  was  required  to  enable  the  blind  to  read  and  to 
have  a  library  co-extensive  with  that  enjoyed  by  the 
public  at  large,  was  that  every  printer,  after  com- 
pleting the  required  number  of  copies  of  a  page  of  an 


102  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

ordinary  book,  should  simply  print  a  few  pages  on  one 
side  with  very  strong  pressure,  so  as  to  cause  an  em- 
bossment for  the  use  of  the  blind, — he,  Beniowski, 
being  simple  enough  to  imagine  that  if  the  blind  would 
only  be  content  to  read  the  print  in  the  reverse  posi- 
tion, their  power  of  touch  would  enable  them  to  over- 
come the  difficulties  of  the  smallness  of  the  letters  and 
the  multiplicity  of  the  strokes.  If  the  major  had  not 
actually  embossed  a  book  in  illustration  of  his  dream, 
the  mention  of  it  here  would  be  unpardonable.  But 
we  hope  that  enough  has  been  said  to  induce  any 
visionary  who  may  honour  us  by  perusing  this  work 
to  abstain  from  playing  any  similar  trick  in  connec- 
tion with  the  treatment  of  the  blind.  The  title  of  the 
book  above-named  is  Major  Beniowski's,  or  '  Phreno- 
typic  Primer  for  the  Blind/  It  is  embossed  on  his 
plan,  and  is  utterly  worthless. 


THE    SYSTEM   BY   ME.    M1TFOED. 

About  the  year  1865  Mr.  B.  Mitford,  of  Cheltenham, 
printed  some  pages  in  the  ordinary  Roman  capital 
letters,  so  arranged  that  the  arms  of  the  reader  moved 
to  and  from  him  instead  of  from  left  to  right,  the 
fingers  first  coming  in  contact  with  the  tops  of  the 
letters  instead  of  the  sides,  and  each  line  being  placed 
to  the  right  of  the  preceding,  instead  of  below  it  in 
the  usual  way.  After  a  careful  examination,  we  are 
at  a  loss  to  discover  any  advantage  in  this  change, 
and  we  believe  that  if  the  plan  were  fully  carried  out 
many  evils  would  be  developed. 

SYSTEMS  OP  READING  IN  AMERICA. 

It  has  often  been  stated  very  confidently  that  there 
is  only  one  plan  used  in  America  for  enabling  the 


FEINTING   FOR   THE    BLIND.  103 

blind  to  read.  This  is  incorrect,  as  from  the  first  in- 
troduction of  tangible  print  into  the  United  States,  two 
systems  have  always  been  employed.  For  the  last 
twenty  years  there  have  been  three,  and  there  are  now 
at  least  four  in  use  in  different  parts  of  the  Union. 

Almost  simultaneously,  in  1833,  printing  for  the 
blind  was  commenced  in  Boston  and  in  Philadelphia. 
The  mode  adopted  by  Dr.  S.  G.  Howe,  of  Boston,  was 
somewhat  like  that  of  Mr.  Gall,  viz.  the  smaller  En- 
glish letters  without  capitals,  angles  being  employed  in- 
stead of  curves.  Dr.  Howe's  letters  were,  however,  less 
angular,  and  the  lines  were  smooth  and  not  fretted; 
the  letters  B  and  G  were  modifications  of  the  capitals, 
instead  of  the  smaller  letters.  Printing  in  relief  at 
Philadelphia  was  begun  by  Mr.  Freedlander,  the  Prin- 
cipal of  the  Pennsylvanian  Institution  for  the  Blind. 
He  employed  the  Roman  capitals  to  the  exclusion  of 
the  small  letters.  It  thus  appears  that  two  different 
modes  of  printing  were  commenced  the  same  year,  the 
one  in  New  England  and  the  other  in  the  Keystone 
State,  and  from  these  enterprises  the  following  results 
have  accrued.  Dr.  Howe,  the  philanthropic  Physician 
and  Principal  of  the  Perkins  Institution  for  the  Blind, 
Boston,  published  in  1836  the  New  Testament  in  four 
volumes,  which  sold  for  one  dollar  per  volume,  or 
16s.  8d.  for  the  entire  New  Testament.  This  was  the 
first  New  Testament  printed  for  the  blind  in  any  lan- 
guage, and  in  cheapness  it  has  not  been  equalled.  It 
may  be  remarked  en  passant  that  the  Acts  of  the 
Apostles  was  issued  in  1834.  The  Old  Testament  was 
completed  in  1842  and  comprised  six  volumes,  the  price 
of  which  collectively  was  £3.  6s.  Id.,  so  that  the  entire 
Bible  was  sold  for  £4.  2s.  9d.,  which,  we  believe,  is  the 
present  price  in  America;  the  stereotyped  plates  of 
the  Scriptures  having  been  bought  by  the  American 
Bible  Society  (New  York).  The  other  works  issued 
by  the  press  of  the  Perkins  Institution  are  Lardner's 
Universal  History,  three  volumes,  £1.  17s.  2d. ;  Geo- 


104  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

graphy,  one  volume,  12s.  6d. ;  Howe's  General  Atlas, 
12«.  Qd. ;  Atlas  of  the  United  States,  8s.  M. ;  Atlas  of 
the  Islands,  10s.  M. ;  The  English  Eeader,  Part  I., 
ditto,  Part  II.,  price  of  each,  J2s.  6d.;  The  Dairy- 
man's Daughter  and  The  Hervey  Boys,  each  4s.  2d. ; 
The  Pilgrim's  Progress,  10s.  5d.;  Baxter's  Call  to  the 
Unconverted,  6s.  3d. ;  Life  of  Melancthon  and  a  Book 
of  Hymns,  each  4s.  2d. ;  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  and  a  Book  of  Diagrams,  each  3s.  Id. ;  Viri 
Romae,  8s.  4d.  ;  Pearce's  Geometry  with  Diagrams, 
8s.  4d. ;  Political  Class-Book,  8s.  4d. ;  First  Table  of 
Logarithms,  4s.  2d. ;  second  ditto,  8*.  4d. ;  Principles 
of  Arithmetic,  4s.  2d.;  Astronomical  Dictionary,  6s.  '3d.; 
Natural  History  and  Natural  Philosophy,  each  12s.  Qd.; 
Cyclopaedia  of  Geography,  six  volumes,  £3.  14s.  4d. ; 
also  several  devotional  works.  To  this  list  must  be 
added  Milton's  principal  works  in  two  very  large  vo- 
lumes, and  Diderot's  Letter  on  the  Blind. 

Charles  Dickens,  after  his  second  American  tour, 
presented  to  Dr.  Howe  a  considerable  sum  in  order 
that  one  of  his  own  works  of  fiction  might  be  printed 
for  the  blind.  The  greater  number  of  the  above- 
named  books  are  stereotyped,  so  that  they  may  always 
be  procured,  and  they  are  sold  at  cost  price. 

The  account  printed  in  the  Jurors'  Report  of  various 
books,  etc.  for  the  blind  exhibited  in  the  Exhibition  of 
1 851  was  written  by  Mr.  Stevens,  of  New  York,  and 
the  present  writer  had  the  gratification  of  furnishing 
him  with  many  facts. 

The  books  printed  in  Philadelphia  in  Roman  capi- 
tals since  1833,  are:  $  c. 
The  Books  of  Ruth  and  Esther  ......  2 

The  Book  of  Proverbs 2 

Die  Ostereir  (The  Easter  Eggs),  in  German,  1 

vol 2 

The  Student's  Magazine.     In  7  vols.,  each  .     .     2 

(Consisting  of  Original  Essays  by  the  Pupils, 
and  Selections.)     Sold  separately. 


PRINTING    FOE    THE    BLIND.  105 

The  Select  Library  for  the  Blind.     In  5  vols.     $   c. 

Sold  separately,  each 2.50 

(This  Series  contains  The  Traveller,  and  the 
Deserted  Village,  by  Goldsmith,  and  other 
selections  from  standard  English  authors.) 

A  Compendium  of  the  French  Verbs.  Com- 
piled by  T.  C.  M.  Merillat.  In  1  vol.  .  .  .  2.50 

A  Selection  of  Psalms  and  Hymns.     In  1  vol.  .     2.50 

A  Selection  of  Church  Music,  in  the  usual  mu- 
sical characters.  Arranged  and  figured  for 
Thorough  Bass.  In  3  volumes,  each  ...  3 

A  Short  Dictionary  of  Italian  and  other  Words 
used  in  Music. 

A  Dictionary  of  the  English  Language  for  the 
Use  of  the  Blind.  In  3  vols.  For  the  set  .14 

A  Brief  Memorial  of  the  late  Judge  John  K. 
Kane.  By  Robley  Dunglison,  M.D.,  LL.D. 
1858. 

A  Memorial  of  the  late  Colonel  Albert  G.  Water- 
man. By  Franklin  Peale.  1862. 

A  Memorial  of  the  late  Eobley  Dunglison,  M.D., 
LL.D.  By  Franklin  Peale.  1869. 

Life  of  George  Washington.     In  2  vols. 

The  Gospel  according  to  St.  Mark. 

Select  Poetry.  Chiefly  from  standard  authors. 
In  1  vol 3 

English  Grammar.  (Printed  by  N.  B.  Kneass, 
jun.)  2  vols 7 

Introductory   Primer.      (Combined  print.      By 

N.  B.  Kneass,  jun.)         1.25 

Catechism  of  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church. 

(Combined  print.     By  N.  B.  Kneass,  jun.)     .         50 

Catechism  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church. 
(Combined  print.  By  N.  B.  Kneass,  jun.)  .  1 

Independence  Hall  and  Declaration.  (In  capi- 
tals)   1.25 

Kneass'  Philadelphia  Magazine.    Vols.  1,  2,  and 

3,  each 3.50 

Important  Events  of  1867 1.25 


106  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

X    C. 

Prayer  Book  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church      .     3.25 

Elementary  Arithmetic 1.88 

Tables  of  Money,  Weights,  and  Measures      .     .     1 

Poetry  of  England 3 

Merchant  of  Venice 2.50 

Poetry  of  America 3 

By  the  National  Printing  Association  : — 

Dictionary  of  Musical  Terms 3 

Compendium  of  American  Literature    ....     3.25 

Beauties  of  Shakspeare 3 

Etymology 3 

We  hope  we  may  be  excused  for  remarking  that 
the  value  of  the  American  dollar  is  4s.  2d.,  and  the 
cent.,  \<l. 

Mr.  Snider,  of  Philadelphia,  printed  on  both  sides  of 
very  thick  paper  in  1833.  The  paper  was  subjected 
to  great  pressure  between  two  plates.  The  plan  was, 
however,  abandoned.  The  printing  of  the  work  on 
church  music  above-named  was  superintended  in  1850 
by  Mr.  Snider,  who  probably  was  the  same  gentleman. 

In  1848  printing  was  commenced  at  the  Institution, 
Richmond,  Virginia,  the  system  employed  being  nei- 
ther that  used  at  Boston  nor  at  Philadelphia,  but  a 
combination  of  both,  inasmuch  as  the  capitals  and 
smaller  letters  of  the  Roman  type  are  employed  in  a 
similar  way  to  that  used  by  the  sighted:  various  school 
books  were  printed,  aud  about  the  year  1863  the 
French  system  known  as  that  of  M.  Braille,  hereafter 
to  be  described,  was  introduced  into  the  Institution 
for  the  Blind,  St.  Louis,  Missouri,  by  Mr.  Henry 
Robin,  who  invented  a  method  of  printing  by  which 
only  five  different  sorts  of  type  were  required  to  em- 
boss the  Braille  system. 

The  pupils  of  the  St.  Louis  Institution  embossed 
many  books  by  hand  with  the  writing-frame,  and 
many  of  the  blind  of  the  State  of  Missouri  prefer  the 
system  to  the  others  used  in  America.  It  may  be 
also  mentioned  that  a  modification  of  Braille's  system 


PRINTING   FOE   THE    BLIND.  107 

was  made  some  years  ago  by  Mr.  Adams,  of  New  York, 
but  we  believe  that  no  books  have  been  printed  on 
the  plan. 

Before  ending  this  branch  of  the  subject,  it  may  be 
observed  that  the  Boston  or  Howe's  system  obtained 
the  medal  at  the  London  Exhibition  of  1851,  but  very 
little  importance  can  be  attached  in  such  a  matter  to 
the  opinion  of  a  number  of  sighted  persons  unable  to 
read  with  their  fingers. 


M.  BRAILLE'S  SYSTEM. 

About  the  year  1852  a  mode  of  printing  was  intro- 
duced into  the  Paris  Institution,  of  which  the  late  M. 
Braille  has  the  credit  of  being  the  inventor,  but  his 
claim  is  disputed  by  many,  who  state  that  M.  Charles 
Barbier,  of  Laserre,  an  officer  of  the  French  artillery, 
originated  the  plan.  When,  however,  we  consider 
that  M.  Braille  was  blind,  and  that  his  claim  is  allowed 
by  the  French  Government,  it  seems  just  to  infer  that 
if  M.  Barbier  had  anything  to  do  with  the  invention 
it  was  very  little  indeed.  The  characters  in  this  sys- 
tem are  formed  by  six  dots  exactly  of  the  same  kind, 
which  represent  letters  according  to  the  positions  in 
which  they  are  placed,  e.  g.,  one  dot  at  the  top  of  the 
line  is  A,  two  dots  placed  perpendicularly,  B ;  two 
dots  placed  horizontally  at  the  top,  C,  etc.  A  consi- 
derable number  of  contractions  are  employed  in  this 
system.  One  of  the  great  advantages  of  the  plan  is 
that  it  is  easily  written,  of  which  more  hereafter. 

Braille's  system  is  now  used  at  the  Paris  Institu- 
tion, to  the  exclusion  of  all  others.  It  has  too  all  but 
a  monopoly  at  the  schools  for  the  blind  at  Lausanne, 
Brussels,  Amsterdam,  Madrid,  Rio  de  Janeiro,  and  St. 
Louis,  Missouri.  At  Lausanne,  the  French  New  Tes- 
tament was  commenced  to  be  printed  in  Braille's  sys- 
tem in  1861,  and  it  has  since  been  completed  in  eight 
volumes. 


108  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

Braille's  method  lias  been  modified  by  the  late  Abbe 
Carton,  of  Bruges,  so  as  to  have  some  resemblance  to 
the  common  alphabet.  It  does  not  appear,  however, 
that  the  modified  plan  has  been  adopted  by  any  insti- 
tution, except  that  of  Bruges,  in  which  it  was  first  in- 
troduced. 

The  following  books  have  been  printed  at  Paris,  in 

Braille's  system,  namely : —                                      f.  c. 

Eecueil  de  Prieres  usuelles,  1  vol.  in-8vo       .     .     2  75 

Offices  du  Matin  et  du  Soir,  1  vol.  in-8vo     .     .     2  50 

Catechisme  de  Paris  in-4to,  ler  vol 5  50 

„       2*  vol „  „ 

Imitation  de  Jesus-Christ,  4e  livre,  1  vol.  in-4to     6  „ 
Recueil  de  Cantiques,  par  Gaultier  : 

A  Jesus-Christ,  ler  vol.  in-4to      ....     5  50 

A.  la  Sainte  Vierge,  2e  vol.  in-4to      ...     4  50 
Kecueil  de  Cantiques,  par  le  Pere  Hermann  : 

A  la  Sainte  Vierge,  ler  vol 5  50 

A  Jesus-Christ,  2e  vol 5  „ 

Arithmetique  elementaire,  par  Dufour,   1  vol. 

in-4to 5  „ 

Grammaire  francaise,  lre  partie,  1  vol.  in-4to     .     5  „ 

„               „           2e  partie,            „            .     3  „ 

„               „           3e  partie,            „             .     6  „ 

„               „           4e  partie,            „            .     5  „ 

Histoire  naturelle,  1  vol.  in-4to;      .....     6  „ 

Geographie  methodique,  1  vol.  in-4to       ...     4  „ 

Geographie  de  la  France,  in-4to,  ler  vol.  ...     4  „ 

2e  vol .4  „ 

3evol 3  50 

Tableaux  chronologiques  de  1'Histoire  ancienne, 

lvol.in-4to 3  50 

Tableaux  chronologiques  de  T  Histoire  ancienne, 

du  moyen  age,  1  vol.  in-4to 3  50 

Tableaux  chronologiques  de  1'Histoire  moderne, 

1  vol.  in-4to 5  „ 

Cosmographie  elementaire,  1  vol.  in-4to        .     .     2  „ 

Cosmographie,  par  Delille,  in-4to,  ler  vol.     .     .     5  „ 


PRINTING   FOR   THE   BLIND.  109 

f.  C. 

Cosmographie,  par  Delille,  in-4to,  2C  vol.      .     .  5  „ 

3evol.      .     .  5  „ 

Elements  de  Physique,  in-4to,  ler  vol.      ...  4  „ 

»     2evol.        .     .     .  4  „ 

Choix  de  Morceaux  en  Prose,  1  vol.  in-4to    .     .  3  50 

„             „         enVers,             „         .     .     .  5  „ 

Fables  choisies  de  La  Fontaine,  in-4to,  ler  vol.  .  5  „ 

2evol.       .     .  5  50 

Fables  choisies  de  Florian,  in-8vo,  ler  vol.       .     .  2  „ 

2evol 2  „ 

Principes    elementaires    de    Musique,  1  vol. 

in-8vo 2  „ 

Methode  de  Musique,  1  vol.  in-4to 5  „ 

Solfege  pratique,  lre  partie,  1  vol.  in-4to            .  5  „ 

» .      . 2e  partie,       „         „          .     .  4  „ 

Cours  d'Haruionie,  I  vol.  in-4to 5  „ 

Offices  notes 17  „ 

Methode  de  Violon,  par  Kreutzer,  1  vol.  in-4to  .  5  „ 

„         „         par  Spohr,  1  vol.  in-4to      .     .  3  „ 
Etudes   de    Violoncelle,  lre   partie    (Stialzni, 

Dotzauer,  Merk),  1  vol.  in-4to 5  „ 

Etudes  de  Violoncelle,    2re    (Duport,    Franc- 

homme),  1  vol.  in-4to 5  „ 

Methode  de  Contre-basse 2  50 

Methode  de  Cor 5  „ 

Methode  de  Piano,  par  Lecarpentier,  lervol.in-4to  4  „ 

„             „       par  Lemoine,  ler  vol.  in-4to    .  5  „ 

2ervol.  in-4to     .     .  5  „ 

„             „       par  Kalkbrenner,  1  vol.  in-4to  5  „ 

Etudes  de  Piano,  par  Cramer,  1  vol.  in-4to   .     .  3  50 

„             „      par  Kalkbrenner,  lervol.  in-4to  4  „ 

2evol.in-4to  4  „ 

Morceaux,  Orgue,  1  vol.  in-4to 5  „ 


110  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 


READING  IN  GERMANY,  AND  SOME  OTHER 
COUNTRIES. 

The  common  alphabet  is  used  in  Prussia  and  the 
other  German  States ;  also  in  Austria,  Russia,  and 
Denmark.  Relief  print  was  introduced  into  Vienna 
by  Klein,  in  1804,  and  was  adopted  at  St.  Petersburg, 
and  Berlin,  1806,  at  the  instance  of  Haiiy. 

The  form  of  the  common  alphabet  generally  used 
in  these  countries  is  that  of  the  Roman  capital  letters, 
and  in  the  books  published  by  the  Bible  Society  at 
Stuttgart,  the  letters  are  roughened  after  the  man- 
ner employed  by  Mr.  Gall.  Some  use  of  Moon's 
alphabet  is  made  at  Berlin  and  Rotterdam,  and  it  is 
employed  at  Stockholm  with  modifications,  but  the 
common  letter  is  also  used  in  Sweden,  as  well  as  in 
Norway. 

In  all  these  countries,  however,  reading  by  the 
blind  exists  more  in  name  than  in  reality. 

Before  quitting  this  branch  of  the  subject  we  must 
not  omit  to  mention  the  praiseworthy  labours  of  M. 
Ko3chlin,  the  Blind  Director  of  the  Institution  at 
Illzach,  near  Mulhausen,  or  Mulhouse. 

In  1857  he  began  to  print  the  Bible  in  German, 
and  by  the  generous  aid  of  the  Bible  Societies  of 
Stuttgart,  Mulhouse,  Strasburg,  and  Colmar,  he  was 
enabled  to  complete  it  in  1863. 

The  type  employed  is  that  used  by  the  Bible  Society 
of  Stuttgart,  a  description  of  which  has  been  already 
given.  This  great  work,  which  was  the  first  German 
Bible  for  the  Blind,  was  completed  in  sixty-two  vo- 
lumes, and  sold  for  £8.  8s.  4<d.  Owing,  however,  to 
a  generous  gift  from  Russia,  the  Stuttgart  Society 
has  since  reduced  the  price  one-half,  so  that  a  German 
Bible  may  now  be  bought  in  relief  print  for  four 
guineas. 


VARIOUS    SYSTEMS    OF    READING.  Ill 


AN   ANALYSIS   OF   VARIOUS    SYSTEMS   OF 
BEADING. 

In  considering  the  means  best  adapted  for  enabling 
the  blind  to  read,  it  is  not  only  desirable  to  under- 
stand the  nature  of  the  sense  of  feeling  as  it  exists 
generally  in  the  human  race,  but  it  is  also  necessary 
fully  to  comprehend  the  powers  of  touch,  as  enjoyed  by 
the  persons  for  whom  the  means  of  reading  are 
especially  intended.  It  is  generally  supposed  that  to 
be  blind  necessarily  involves  the  possession  of  superior 
powers  of  touch.  This  is  incorrect,  for  the  tactual 
power  of  many  blind  persons  is  inferior  to  that  enjoyed 
by  the  average  sighted  man. 

This  deficiency  is  no  doubt  principally  caused  by  the 
existence  of  defects  other  than  blindness,  but  as  the 
individuals  possessing  such  defects  form  no  incon- 
siderable proportion  of  those  for  whom  tangible  print 
is  required,  the  consideration  of  their  circumstances 
cannot  be  overlooked.  Considering  the  state  in  which 
the  sense  of  touch  exists  among  the  blind,  we  think 
the  examination  of  the  subject  may  be  divided  into 
three  heads,  namely,  "  The  Keen  Touch/'  "  the  Me- 
dium Touch,"  and  "the  Dull,  or  Obtuse  Touch." 
And  a  full  investigation  of  the  subject  will  indicate 
that  greater  extremes  could  scarcely  be  shown  than 
those  existing  in  the  powers  of  touch,  as  possessed 
by  different  blind  persons.  Those  having  keen  touch 
can  perceive  the  smallest  inequalities  in  highly  polished 
and  very  level  surfaces,  whereas  those  in  whom  the 
sense  is  dull  can  scarcely  feel,  so  as  to  appreciate  the 
commonest  objects.  The  great  error  that  has  prevailed 
ever  since  the  invention  of  raised  letters  is  the  sup- 
position that  the  sense  of  touch  exists  with  equal  in- 
tensity in  all  blind  persons,  and  that  to  render  this 
apparent  the  due  cultivation  of  the  sense  of  feeling  is 


112  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

all  that  is  required.  This  erroneous  conception  has 
been  fruitful  in  mischief,  and  it  is  strange  that  its 
fallacy  has  not  appeared  to  some  of  those  who  have 
laboured  in  this  department  of  science.  In  considering 
then  that  embossed  books  have  to  be  provided  for  those 
who  possess  the  sense  of  touch  in  three  different 
degrees,  which  degrees  by  no  conceivable  effort  can 
ever  be  made  identical  in  power,  the  question  natu- 
rally suggests  itself,  "Is  it  possible  to  contrive  a 
mode  of  reading  available  alike  for  the  three  different 
classes  above-named  without  placing  a  burden  on  the 
persons  belonging  to  either  class,  which  in  fairness  they 
ought  not  to  bear  ?  In  other  words,  can  books  be 
printed  so  as  to  give  all  the  advantages  that  are  de- 
sirable to  those  whose  touch  is  keen,  to  those  who  have 
it  in  a  medium  degree,  and  to  those  in  whom  the  sense 
is  very  dull  ?  " 

Now  we  think  it  must  be  admitted  that  to  oblige 
the  dull  to  use  no  other  books  than  those  employed 
by  the  keen  would  be  utterly  absurd,  seeing  that  they 
could  not  even  perceive  one  letter  from  another ;  and 
yet  absurd  as  this  seems,  it  has  actually  been  acted  on, 
and  that  very  widely,  for  the  books  printed  on  the 
alphabetical  systems  used  in  America,  Germany,  and 
this  country  are  utterly  useless  to  nine-tenths  of  the 
blind.  They  can  be  read  only  by  a  very  few ;  and  it 
may  be  affirmed  that  they  have  not  enabled  one  single 
person  to  read  with  that  degree  of  ease  and  fluency 
which  is  desirable.  If  then  it  is  unjust  to  say  to  those 
whose  sense  is  dull,  "  If  you  cannot  read  the  books  which 
are  deciphered  by  those  with  keen  touch  you  shall  not 
have  any  at  all,"  is  it  on  the  other  hand  right  to  oblige 
the  keen  to  read  books  found  necessary  for  the  dull, 
and  to  compel  them  to  endure  the  impediments  arising 
from  peculiarities  in  the  form  and  size  of  the  letters, 
and  thus  oblige  their  fingers  to  pass  over  a  very 
large  amount  of  unnecessary  space,  and  so  to  interfere 
with  the  comfort  and  speed  of  reading,  and  also  to 


VARIOUS    SYSTEMS    OF    READING.  113 

compel  them  to  pay  enormous  sums  for  volumes,  for 
which  on  account  of  their  bulk  they  can  scarcely  find 
house-room  ? 

It  may  however  be  said  that  there  is  still  the  case  of 
those  having  a  medium  touch,  that  we  have  not  yet 
considered,  and  it  is  probable  that  the  type  which 
would  be  found  suitable  for  persons  in  this  middle  con- 
dition, might  also  be  used  without  inconvenience  by 
those  included  in  the  extreme  classes.  This,  however, 
cannot  be  done,  for  if  those  with  keen  touch  would  con- 
sent to  the  necessary  sacrifice,  the  great  majority  of 
those  with  the  dull  perception  would  be  unable  to  avail 
themselves  of  it,  however  willing  they  might  be  to  do 
so.  Under  these  circumstances  it  becomes  an  object 
of  great  importance  to  discover  how  many  systems 
of  embossed  print  are  really  necessary  to  provide  for 
the  wants  of  the  different  classes  of  the  blind,  and 
also  to  ascertain  if  any  of  the  systems  now  in  use 
possess  the  qualities  requisite  to  enable  them  to  provide 
efficiently  for  the  necessities  of  finger-readers.  And 
here  we  think  it  advisable  to  define  what  experience 
has  shown  to  be  absolutely  necessary  in  this  case,  and 
also  to  proceed  to  ascertain  how  far  the  various  modes 
of  tangible  print  now  in  use  efficiently  fulfil  these  con- 
ditions. We  know  that  some  persons  maintain  that 
the  books  used  by  the  blind  should  be  such  as  can  be 
read  by  the  sighted,  in  order  that  the  latter  may  be 
enabled  to  teach  the  former ;  but  if  the  blind  are  not 
able  to  learn  what  the  sighted  wish  to  teach  them,  or  if 
the  learning  of  it  is  to  stand  in  the  way  of  the  acquisition 
of  something  which  would  bring  them  far  greater  ad- 
vantage, the  communicating  of  such  unprofitable  in- 
struction would  be  far  from  desirable. 

The  books  of  the  blind  being  printed  so  as  to  be 
read  by  the  sighted  is  not  of  the  slightest  importance, 
for  it  must  be  admitted  that  whatever  is  intended  to  be 
perceived  by  a  given  sense  should  be  suited  to  the 
peculiar  requirements  of  that  sense. 


114  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

If  the  letters  which  are  supposed  to  be  best  adapted 
to  the  sense  of  sight,  be  found  on  examination  to  be 
also  best  adapted  to  the  sense  of  touch, — good  !  But  if 
not,  then  the  blind,  for  the  purpose  of  acquiring  know- 
ledge by  reading,  want  nothing  to  do  with  the  sighted 
alphabet.  It  is  also  said  that  the  mode  of  reading 
should  be  capable  of  being  easily  written.  Well !  if 
the  best  mode  of  reading  should  also  prove  the  best 
mode  of  writing,  we  should  deem  it  an  advantage. 
But  in  dealing  with  reading,  we  must  keep  that  sub- 
ject alone  in  view,  to  the  rejection  of  all  extraneous 
matter  near  or  remote. 


READING  WITH  CERTAINTY. 

We  think  it  must  be  generally  admitted  that  the 
best  system  of  tangible  print  is  that  which  enables  the 
largest  number  of  blind  persons  to  read  with  the 
greatest  amount  of  certainty,  ease,  and  fluency,  and 
which  also  includes  the  advantages  of  cheapness  and 
smallness  of  bulk.  And  now  we  will  endeavour  to 
ascertain  how  far  the  various  systems  at  present  in  use 
fulfil  the  requirements  of  this  definition.  To  obtain 
certainty  it  is  obvious  that  no  character  should  repre- 
sent more  than  one  thing, — that  the  same  word  should 
always  be  spelt  in  the  same  way,  that  when  part  of  a 
word  is  in  one  line,  and  part  in  another,  the  circum- 
stance should  be  sufficiently  shown  in  order  that 
neither  part  may  be  taken  to  indicate  an  independent 
word,  and  that  the  characteristics  of  each  letter  should 
be  so  clear  and  well  developed  that  there  should  be  no 
reasonable  ground  for  it  being  mistaken  for  any  other 
letter.  In  the  systems  known  as  Alston's,  the  German, 
and  the  Philadelphian,  the  characteristics  of  the  letters 
are  so  ill  developed  that  the  B,  D,  and  S,  the  H  and 
the  N,  are  often  mistaken  for  each  other.  In  the 
Boston  or  Howe's  type  the  A,  Gr,  and  0,  and  the  I,  L, 


VARIOUS    SYSTEMS    OF    BEADING.  115 

and  T,  are  frequently  mistaken.  The  above  remarks 
apply  to  a  greater  or  less  extent  to  the  systems  known 
as  Gall's,  the  Virginian,  etc.  In  Lucas's  system,  as  it 
at  present  exists,  one  character  is  often  employed  to 
represent  more  than  one  thing,  without  any  sign  being 
given  to  indicate  the  variation  of  power,  e.  g.  the 
letter  A  when  standing  alone  indicates  both  the  word 
a  and  the  word  and  ;  the  letter  I  at  the  end  of  a  word 
may  simply  be  the  last  letter  of  a  syllable,  or  it  may 
indicate  the  termination  ing  ;  it  is,  therefore,  not  sur- 
prising to  find  that  the  passage  in  John,  chap,  vi., 
v.  4,  "  And  the  Passover  a  feast  of  the  Jews  was  nigh" 
has  been  very  frequently  rendered  by  Lucas's  readers, 
and  the  Passover  and  feast  of  the  Jews  was  nigh;  and 
with  such  a  word  as  radii,  the  uninitiated,  adhering  to 
the  rules  of  the  system,  would  certainly  call  it  radi-ing ; 
and  the  matter  would  not  be  mended  by  the  rule  which 
provides  that  when  a  mistake  is  likely  to  arise,  the  word 
should  be  spelt  at  full  length,  for  spelling  would  not  at 
all  indicate  that  a  did  not  mean  and,  and  that  i  did 
not  indicate  ing.  Much  uncertainty  is  also  caused  by 
such  characters  as  ff  representing  3,  three,  third,  and 
from ;  from  t  h,  indicating  4,  four,  fourth,  and  thou ; 
and  from  s  h  being  employed  for  5,  five,  fifth,  shall, 
and  shalt.  The  omission  of  the  vowels,  whenever  in 
the  opinion  of  the  editor  they  are  unnecessary  to  the 
sound  of  a  word,  is  the  cause  of  much  uncertainty  to 
the  reader ;  for  how  variable  the  opinion  of  an  editor 
may  be,  we  have  already  shown  in  previous  remarks  on 
Lucas's  system. 

In  Frere's  system  certainty  is  quite  destroyed  by  the 
way  in  which  the  vowels  are  treated ;  sometimes  they 
are  used,  and  sometimes  omitted.  When  used  they  are 
generally  indicated  by  a  small  dot,  which  if  at  the  top 
of  the  line  represents  a  or  e,  if  in  the  middle  i,  and  if 
at  the  bottom  o  or  u  ;  the  same  kind  of  dot  being  also 
used  to  separate  syllables ;  but  confusing  as  this  may 
appear,  it  is  not  the  worst,  for  a  vowel  that  is  intended 

i  2 


116  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

to  be  sounded  in  the  middle  of  a  word  is  often  put  at 
the  end.  These  facts  speak  for  themselves,  and  need 
no  further  comment. 

In  Moon's  plan  of  reading  no  hyphen  is  employed  to 
show  that  part  of  a  word  is  in  the  next  line,  so  the 
parts  of  a  word  may  sometimes  be  taken  as  two  inde- 
pendent words ;  thus,  the  phrase  Athelstan  died,  has 
been  read  " at  Helstan  died" 

HEADING  WITH  EASE  AND  CERTAINTY,  ETC. 

In  the  various  systems  formed  from  the  Roman 
alphabet  the  blind  are  prevented  from  reading  with 
ease  by  the  multiplicity  of  strokes  used  in  the  construc- 
tion of  the  letters,  the  determination  of  three  or  four 
things  being  usually  necessary  before  the  finger- reader 
can  accurately  determine  the  name  of  the  letter  under 
examination.  This  difficulty  is  further  increased  by 
the  circumstance  that  the  characteristics  of  a  letter 
are  often  to  be  found  in  its  interior,  instead  of  being 
on  the  outside ;  and  when  the  various  letters  are  put 
together  to  form  long  words,  the  difficulty  experienced 
in  reading  even  by  those  with  very  acute  touch  can 
scarcely  be  imagined.  If  any  one  with  sight  doubts 
this,  let  him  set  to  work  and  try  to  read  with  his 
fingers  one  of  the  alphabetic  systems ;  and  surely,  if 
he  will  not  make  such  a  simple  experiment,  he  has  no 
right  to  dictate  to  the  blind  as  to  the  alphabet  they 
shall  use.  The  almost  entire  absence  of  contractions 
in  the  systems  taken  from  the  common  alphabet 
militates  greatly  against  fluent  reading,  and  also 
largely  increases  the  price  and  bulk  of  the  volumes. 
Whatever  interferes  with  certainty  also  to  a  consider- 
able extent  lessens  the  amount  of  ease  experienced  in 
reading. 

In  addition  to  what  has  been  already  stated  on  this 
head  regarding  Lucas's  system,  the  following  peculiari- 
ties also  tend  to  diminish  the  comfort  of  the  reader. 


VARIOUS    SYSTEMS    OP   BEADING.  117 

In  the  alphabet  there  are  ten  characters  repre- 
sented by  oblique  lines  which  present  more  difficulties 
to  the  touch  than  those  of  the  perpendicular  or  hori- 
zontal form,  e.  g.  J  is  often  taken  for  H,  and  L  for  W. 
The  dots  used  at  the  extremities  of  the  perpendicular 
and  other  lines  are  frequently  supposed  to  be  on  one 
side,  when  they  are  intended  to  be  on  the  other. 

Those  who  practise  two  or  more  hours  a  day  during 
several  years,  or  who  have  naturally  a  keen  touch,  do 
not  perceive  these  difficulties,  but  they  are  painfully 
evident  to  ordinary  learners.  As  the  use  of  vowels  is 
now  far  more  frequent,  owing  to  the  last  modification 
of  the  system,  and  as  E  and  U  are  difficult  to  be  per- 
ceived, another  interference  is  thus  caused  with  the 
comfort  of  the  reader. 

Mr.  Lucas  represented  the  letters  E  and  U  by  very 
small  semicircles,  as  they  did  not  often  occur  in  the 
mode  of  spelling  employed  by  him,  but  now  that  the 
orthography  of  the  system  more  nearly  approaches  full 
spelling,  the  arrangement  of  the  letters,  as  regards 
their  tangible  power,  effected  by  Mr.  Lucas  no  longer 
holds  good.  The  contractions  employed  in  Lucas's 
system  give  fluency  in  reading,  at  the  same  time  that 
they  lessen  the  cost  and  bulk  of  the  volumes,  but  the 
irregular  way  in  which  they  are  applied  sadly  interferes 
with  other  important  considerations.  The  pleasure  of 
reading  in  Moon's  system  is  lessened  by  the  number  of 
oblique  characters  employed.  This  is  more  especially 
true  with  regard  to  the  signs  used  for  numerals,  which 
were  found  so  defective  that  they  were  altogether  re- 
jected by  the  Bible  Society,  and  some  other  institutions 
when  they  commenced  embossing  books  for  themselves. 
Indeed  so  little  dependence  is  placed  on  the  figures 
•even  by  Mr.  Moon  himself,  that  when  in  his  books  it 
is  necessary  to  give  a  date,  he  generally  spells  it  at  full 
length,  e.  g.,  instead  of  1847  he  puts  eighteen  hundred 
and  forty-seven.  In  volumes  where  numbers  fre- 
quently occur  this  evil  is  very  great.  The  embossed 


118  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

works  being  usually  produced  from  plates  upon  which 
detached  pieces  of  wire  are  soldered,  the  oblique  lines 
are  seldom  placed  at  the  same  angle,  so  that  the  exact 
inclination  of  two  letters  of  the  same  name  often 
differs  considerably.  The  practice  of  reading  alter- 
nately from  left  to  right,  and  from  right  to  left,  as 
adopted  in  Moon's  system,  possesses  the  disadvantage 
of  often  presenting  the  same  letter  to  the  reader  in 
two  aspects,  e.  g.,  in  proceeding  from  left  to  right  and 
coming  to  the  letter  c,  the  finger  first  comes  in  contact 
with  the  round  part  of  the  letter,  but  in  reading  from 
right  to  left  the  finger  first  comes  in  contact  with  the 
points  of  the  letter.  In  the  case  of  the  letter  D,  on 
proceeding  from  left  to  right,  the  reader  first  perceives 
the  points  ;  and  on  reading  from  right  to  left  he  first 
perceives  the  round  part.  In  other  words  in  reading 
from  left  to  right,  the  front  of  the  letter  is  first  per- 
ceived ;  but  on  reading  from  right  to  left  the  back  of 
the  letter  is  perceived  first.  The  great  effect  of  this 
mode  in  preventing  fluent  reading  must  be  self-evident, 
especially  when  it  is  stated  that  no  fewer  than  twenty- 
seven  characters,  out  of  the  thirty-seven  used  for  the 
alphabet  and  figures,  present  to  the  reader  this  double 
aspect. 

The  fluency  desirable  is  that  which  enables  a  person 
to  read  so  as  to  stop  only  at  the  points  of  punctuation. 
If  it  be  necessary  to  print  the  lines  alternately  from 
left  to  right,  and  from  right  to  left,  the  alphabet  should 
be  composed  of  such  characters  as  only  present  one 
aspect  to  the  reader,  whether  approached  from  one 
direction  or  the  other,  and  the  formation  of  such  an 
alphabet  is  by  no  means  difficult.  The  fewness  of 
contractions,  and  the  nature  of  the  characters  employed, 
cause  books  in  this  system  to  be  more  expensive  and 
bulky  than  those  printed  in  any  other  way ;  and  the 
price  of  the  volumes  was  further  increased  for  a  long 
time  by  the  profits  realized  by  Mr.  Moon,  who,  unlike 
the  promoters  of  other  systems,  appears  not  to  have 


VARIOUS    SYSTEMS    OP    HEADING.  119 

sold  his  books  at  cost  price.  In  the  mode  of  reading 
from  left  to  right,  and  from  right  to  left,  employed  by 
Mr.  Frere,  many  of  the  characters  are  entirely  reversed, 
so  that  on  feeling  a  character  in  one  line,  and  finding 
that  the  opening  is  to  the  right,  on  examining  a 
character  of  the  same  name  in  the  next  line,  the  open- 
ing will  be  found  to  the  left.  This  is  done  to  convey 
the  impression  of  uniformity  on  the  first  contact  with 
the  finger;  but  after  the  first  contact  is  passed,  the 
illusion  is  dispelled,  and  on  examining  a  given 
character,  it  is  found  to  be  quite  of  an  opposite  shape 
to  its  namesake  in  the  previous  line.  This  arrange- 
ment is  attended  with  much  inconvenience  to  those 
who  do  not  spend  the  greater  part  of  their  time  in 
reading.  The  use  of  sounds  instead  of  letters  often 
produces  a  hesitating  and  vitiated  pronunciation,  and 
the  want  of  a  regular  method  of  punctuation  is  an  evil 
of  no  little  weight. 

In  the  system  of  M.  Braille,  perhaps  the  greatest 
defect  is  that  arising  from  all  the  characters  being 
formed  by  the  multiplication  of  one  kind  of  dot,  which 
fails  to  present  the  touch  with  the  requisite  amount  of 
variety  of  surface ;  this  greatly  interferes  with  the  uti- 
lity of  the  system  for  reading,  but  for  writing  the 
method  has  many  advantages.  When  at  Paris  and 
Brussels,  the  writer  found  that  the  most  proficient 
pupils  could  read  in  Braille's  system  about  as  well  as 
Moon's  readers  in  England,  but  not  by  any  means  as 
quickly  as  those  who  employ  Lucas's  type. 

The  following  table  may  give  some  idea  of  the  com- 
parative merits  of  the  various  systems,  when  viewed 
in  connection  with  the  definition  of  which  we  have 
been  treating, — No.  1  indicating  the  highest  quality, 
and  so  on  : — 


120 


BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 


TABLE. 


Certainty. 

Ease. 

Fluency. 

Cheapness,  and 
Smallness  of 
Bulk. 

1. 

2. 

3. 

4. 

Moon. 
Howe,  Alston, 
etc. 
Lucas,  Braille. 

Frere. 

Lucas. 
Moon,  Braille. 

Frere,  Howe, 
Alston. 

Lucas. 
Frere. 

Moon,  Bi-aille. 

Howe,  Alston, 
etc. 

Howe. 
Lucas. 

Alston,  Frere, 
Braille. 
Moon. 

Of  course  it  cannot  be  supposed  that  the  qualities 
here  attempted  to  be  indicated  are  in  any  way  equal 
in  value.  For  cheapness,  for  instance,  cannot  be  con- 
sidered of  equal  importance  to  certainty;  and  so  again, 
if  the  books  in  any  system  cannot  be  read,  any  other 
qualities  they  may  contain  are  of  no  use  whatever. 
Still,  it  is  felt  that  the  above  table  possesses  some 
interest,  and  as  such  it  is  inserted  here. 

THE  BEST  SYSTEM  OP  READING  FOK  THE  BLIND. 

In  considering  the  question  of  what  arrangements 
are  desirable  to  enable  the  blind  to  read  with  the 
greatest  amount  of  certainty,  ease,  and  fluency,  and 
to  supply  them  with  books  of  the  cheapest  and  most 
portable  description,  it  is  necessary  thoroughly  to  com- 
prehend the  peculiarities  of  the  agent  by  which  the 
reading  must  be  performed,  viz.  the  sense  of  feeling, 
or  touch.  Touch  differs  from  sight  in  many  respects, 
but  chiefly  in  this, — that  while  sight  can  take  in  at 
one  glance  many  objects  included  within  a  vast  area, 
touch  can  only  convey  to  the  brain  by  one  act  of  con- 
tact the  impression  of  the  first  small  point  that  arrests 
its  progress.  To  illustrate  this  statement  with  respect 
to  sight  is  needless,  but  with  regard  to  touch,  the  fol- 
lowing example  may  serve  to  elucidate  our  meaning. 


VARIOUS    SYSTEMS    OF   BEADING.  121 

Let  a  small  horizontal  line  be  made  in  relief  on  a  piece 
of  paper,  the  person  who  wishes  to  feel  it  proceeds 
from  the  left  side  of  the  paper,  quite  unconscious  of 
what  may  meet  his  finger ;  he  presently  comes  in  con- 
tact  with  a  point,  which  fact  with  more  than  lightning- 
speed  is  conveyed  to  the  brain.  He  then  immediately 
proceeds  along  the  line,  and,  far  quicker  than  we  can 
describe  it,  he  comes  to  the  extremity.  Thus  the  act 
of  feeling  the  smallest  horizontal  line  involves  the 
necessity  of  conveying  to  the  brain,  through  the  tac- 
tual nerve,  at  least  three  impressions,  viz.  contact, 
continuation,  and  conclusion.  Now  it  is  obvious,  that 
if  it  were  possible  to  convey  to  the  brain  a  distinct 
idea  of  one  special  letter  or  word  every  time  the  finger 
came  in  contact  with  a  point,  '  tangible  reading'  would, 
under  such  circumstances,  reach  perfection ;  and  if  this 
desideratum  cannot  be  fully  attained,  it  must  be  ad- 
mitted that  the  nearer  we  approach  to  its  realization, 
the  more  likely  we  shall  be  to  fulfil  the  task  we  have  in 
view.  Under  these  circumstances,  therefore,  although 
we  cannot  do  all  that  could  be  wished,  yet,  as  the  pre- 
sent modes  of  printing  in  relief  are  radically  defective, 
it  is  our  duty  to  embody  the  results  of  experience  by 
the  formation  of  a  system  of  reading  which  may  give 
to  the  blind  greater  advantages  than  they  now  possess. 
The  first  thing  is  to  select  the  most  tangible  charac- 
ters, viz.  those  whose  properties  can  be  perceived  im- 
mediately that  the  finger  comes  in  contact  with  them ; 
and  with  regard  to  this  point,  after  a  careful  examina- 
tion of  more  than  thirty  systems,  extending  over  many 
years,  we  are  enabled  to  state  that  in  our  opinion  the 
characters  possessing  the  greatest  tangible  power  are 
the  following  : — 

A  dot  at  the  top  of  the  line,  a  dot  at  the  bottom, 
two  dots  placed  perpendicularly  from  the  top  of  the 
line,  two  dots  placed  perpendicularly  from  the  bottom, 
two  dots  placed  perpendicularly,  one  at  the  top  and 
the  other  at  the  bottom,  three  dots  placed  perpendi- 


122  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

cularly,  a  short  perpendicular  line  from  the  top,  a  short 
perpendicular  line  from  the  bottom,  and  a  long  per- 
pendicular line. 

The  characters  possessing  second-class  tangible 
power  are : — A  short  perpendicular  line  with  a  dot 
above,  a  short  perpendicular  line  with  a  dot  below,  a 
horizontal  line  at  the  top,  a  horizontal  line  at  the 
bottom,  a  small  solid  circle  at  the  top,  a  small  solid 
circle  at  the  bottom,  two  small  circles  placed  perpen- 
dicularly, a  semicircle  to  the  left,  a  semicircle  to  the 
right,  an  oblique  line  to  the  left,  an  oblique  line  to  the 
right,  a  semicircle  at  the  top,  and  a  semicircle  at  the 
bottom.  We  thus  obtain  twenty- two  characters,  and 
the  additional  number  required  to  complete  the  alpha- 
bet and  the  figures,  etc.  are  easily  obtained  by  the  use  of 
curves  and  lines  united,  etc.  They,  however,  possess  in- 
ferior tangible  power,  and  may  be  denominated  third- 
class  characters.  Next  to  the  importance  of  selecting 
the  best  characters  is  the  solution  of  the  question,  how 
they  shall  be  employed?  And  here  we  have  to  deal 
with  this  fact,  that  a  very  great  disparity  exists  be- 
tween the  frequency  with  which  the  various  letters  of 
the  alphabet  are  used,  e.g.,  in  an  ordinary  book,  the 
letter  e  is  employed  above  sixty  times  more  frequently 
than  z,  thirty  times  more  than  j,  fifteen  times  more 
than  If.  The  letters  t,  a,  i,  n,  o,  and  s  are  used  more 
than  four  times  as  often  as  b,  /,  g,  and  p,  and  more 
than  twice  as  frequently  as  c,  m,  d,  and  /.  Under 
these  circumstances  it  is  a  matter  of  the  highest  im- 
portance to  represent  the  letters  which  occur  most  fre- 
quently by  characters  possessing  the  greatest  amount 
of  tangible  power,  and  which  occupy  the  least  space. 
Such  an  arrangement  is  presented  in  the  foregoing 
description  of  characters,  which  we  have  employed 
for  many  years  in  making  memoranda,  and  which  we 
hope  soon  to  offer  to  the  blind  generally,  as  the  "  Tac- 
tual System  of  Relief  Print." 


VARIOUS    SYSTEMS    OF    HEADING.  123 

ABBREVIATIONS. 

It  has  been  well  said  by  Home  Tooke,  that  "  Ab- 
breviations are  the  wheels  of  language,  the  wings  of 
Mercury,  and  though  we  might  be  dragged  along 
without  them,  it  would  be  with  much  difficulty,  very 
heavily,  and  tediously." 

If  these  observations  be  true  with  regard  to  abbre- 
viations and  their  use  by  the  sighted,  with  how  much 
greater  force  do  they  apply  to  the  blind,  whose  sense 
of  touch  is  so  limited  in  its  exercise,  as  compared  with 
the  range  possessed  by  the  sense  of  sight ! 

Much  has  been  said  against  abbreviations,  which  is 
chiefly  owing  to  the  misuse  that  has  been  made  of 
them.  All  abbreviations  should  be  definite,  and  never 
liable  to  change ;  one  character  or  sign  should  never 
be  used  to  indicate  more  than  one  thing,  and  nothing 
should  be  left  to  the  discretion  of  an  editor.  With 
these  conditions  fulfilled,  what  can  fairly  be  said 
against  abbreviations  ?  If  it  is  understood  that  the 
letter  t  represents  the  word  the,  why  should  the  reader 
be  compelled  to  feel  three  letters  instead  of  one,  and 
to  pay  for  the  printing  of  that  which  is  an  injury  to 
him  rather  than  a  benefit  ? 

By  the  judicious  use  of  fixed  abbreviations,  the  ease 
and  fluency  of  reading  may  be  greatly  promoted,  and 
the  price  and  bulk  of  books  considerably  reduced. 

GENERAL  REMARKS  ON  READING. 

Our  system  may  possibly  be  opposed  by  some  who 
may  say,  on  reading  the  foregoing  remarks,  "  This  is 
all  very  well,  but  these  are  not  the  common  letters." 
To  such  we  would  rejoin,  that  surely  it  must  be  ad- 
mitted that  whatever  is  intended  to  be  perceived  by  a 
given  sense  should  be  adapted  to  the  peculiar  circum- 
stances connected  with  that  sense,  and  what  may  be 
suited  to  one  sense  may  be  very  unfit  for  another ;  in 


124  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

fact,  if  it  be  admitted,  as  we  think  it  must,  that  each 
faculty  given  to  man  is  designed  by  the  Creator  to  per- 
form its  own  special  service,  and  that  this  service  can- 
not be  as  well  performed  by  any  other  faculty,  it 
follows  that  whatever  is  best  suited  for  one  sense 
cannot  be,  in  virtue  of  that  suitability,  equally  well- 
adapted  to  another.  Under  these  circumstances,  and 
in  view  of  the  facts  stated  in  other  parts  of  this  work, 
we  entirely  disregard  the  pretensions  set  up  in  favour 
of  imposing  the  Roman  alphabet  on  the  blind  to  the 
exclusion  of  all  others.  We  may,  however,  here  ex- 
press the  opinion  that  children  should  be  taught  the 
common  alphabet,  in  order  that  they  may  be  enabled 
to  understand,  as  far  as  possible,  the  means  by  which 
their  sighted  brethren  read  j  may  also  have  it  in  their 
power  to  decipher  inscriptions  on  milestones,  house- 
doors,  tombstones,  etc.,  and  that  they  may  be  gradu- 
ally prepared  to  employ  the  common  letters  in  writing, 
but  to  do  more  than  this  in  connection  with  the  com- 
mon alphabet  is  simply  a  waste  of  money  and  time. 
The  Tactual  System,  recently  explained,  so  fully  meets 
all  the  requirements  of  the  sense  of  touch,  that  by 
simply  altering  the  spaces  between  the  letters  and  the 
words,  according  as  a  book  may  be  specially  intended 
for  those  whose  sense  of  feeling  is  keen,  or  for  those 
in  whom  it  is  dull,  the  wants  of  the  different  classes 
of  readers  may  be  fully  met. 

Many  persons  advocate  the  use  of  a  sharp  emboss- 
ment, but  this  is  an  error,  as  sharp  print,  although 
pleasant  when  any  one  first  begins  to  read,  becomes 
painful  after  the  operation  has  been  continued  a  short 
time;  this,  the  author  can  vouch  for  by  long  experience, 
and  he  is  informed  by  credible  persons  that  when  they 
have  read  a  sharp  embossment  like  Frere's,  for  some 
time,  a  stinging  sensation  occurs  in  the  point  of  the 
finger,  which  gradually  extends  itself  up  the  hand  until 
it  reaches  the  wrist ;  it  is  also  stated,  by  a  person  who 
was  in  a  school  in  the  United  States  for  some  time,  that 


WRITING.  125 

children  have  been  known  to  read  Howe's  type  until 
their  fingers  bled.  This  the  writer  would  be  disposed 
to  doubt,  if  he  had  not  himself  read  the  same  type  until 
an  abrasion  of  the  skin  of  his  finger  had  taken  place. 
Others  there  are,  who  contend  for  thick  lines  being 
used  in  the  formation  of  the  letters,  but  this  mode 
destroys  clearness ;  in  fact,  it  produces  the  same  effect 
on  the  touch  that  thick  print  does  on  the  sight,  i.  c. 
it  is  all  blurs  and  blotches.  The  truth,  however,  is 
evolved  by  these  extremes,  viz.  that  the  medium  be- 
tween sharpness  and  thickness  is  most  desirable.  The 
practice  of  reading  alternately  from  left  to  right,  and 
from  right  to  left,  existing  in  some  systems,  in  addi- 
tion to  placing  the  letters  in  false  positions,  contains 
also  these  defects,  viz.,  both  hands  cannot  be  advan- 
tageously employed, — the  right,  in  feeling  the  word 
actually  being  pronounced,  and  the  left,  in  ascertaining 
by  anticipation  what  words  are  at  the  commencement 
of  the  next  line,  so  as  to  enable  the  voice  to  utter  them 
while  the  right  hand  is  changing  from  one  line  to 
another,  and  thus  preventing  a  break  in  the  reading. 
We  know  that  beginners  often  prefer  the  alternate 
lines,  but  so  do  sighted  children  large  letters  on 
black-boards.  Everything  that  is  worth  learning  is 
attended  with  some  trouble,  and  that  which  is  very 
easily  acquired  is  seldom  worth  much. 

To  read  with  ease,  it  is  necessary  that  sentences 
should  be  perceived  by  the  fingers  as  fast  as  they  can 
be  comprehended  by  the  mind,  and  uttered  by  the 
organs  of  speech. 

To  call  that  reading  which  does  not  give  this  power 
is  a  misuse  of  terms.  It  may  be  an  amusement,  a 
labour,  or  whatever  else  you  will,  but  it  certainly  is  not 
reading. 

WRITING. 
Of  the  importance  of  an  acquirement  which  enables 


126  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

the  various  members  of  society  to  communicate  with  each 
other  at  any  distance  of  time  and  space,  nothing  need  be 
said.  But  when  any  one's  connection  with  the  human 
family  is  weakened  by  the  loss'  of  such  an  important 
link  in  the  social  chain  as  that  of  sight,  the  value  of  the 
art  of  writing  is  immensely  increased;  and,  accordingly, 
it  is  no  matter  of  surprise  to  find  that  almost  the  first 
desire  which  animates  an  adult  who  has  become  hope- 
lessly blind,  is,  that  he  may  possess  the  power  of  com- 
municating his  feelings  and  wants  to  absent  friends. 
To  give  some  account  of  this  branch  of  the  science  of 
providing  for  the  wants  of  the  blind,  is,  therefore,  no 
unimportant  part  of  our  work.  In  1692,  the  greatest 
mechanist  of  the  day,  Sir  Samuel  Morland,  became 
blind ;  previous  to  which  calamity  he  had  invented  the 
speaking-trumpet,  and  a  calculating-machine,  and  had 
greatly  improved  the  fire-engine,  and  also  somewhat 
increased  the  knowledge  of  the  power  of  steam.  Al- 
though, after  his  loss  of  sight,  which  occurred  when  he 
was  67  years  old,  he  was  reduced  to  the  deepest  poverty 
and  domestic  trials,  yet  neither  advanced  age,  extreme 
want,  the  desertion  of  his  wife,  nor  blindness  itself, 
could  damp  his  ardour  in  the  pursuit  of  knowledge. 
Being  anxious  to  communicate  with  his  friends,  and 
there  being  then  no  means  for  enabling  the  blind  to 
write,  he  set  to  work  and  invented  an  apparatus  for 
that  purpose;  and  it  is  a  matter  of  considerable  interest, 
as  well  for  the  philologist  as  for  the  antiquarian,  that  a 
letter  is  still  extant,  written  by  Sir  Samuel  Morland, 
nearly  two  hundred  years  ago,  by  the  aid  of  this  first 
writing  appliance  for  the  blind.  The  letter  above 
named  may  be  seen  in  the  library  of  Lambeth  Palace, 
where  also  an  autobiography  of  Sir  Samuel  is  deposited. 
During  the  three  years  of  his  blindness,  Morland  was 
principally  supported  by  the  benevolence  of  Archbishop 
Tenison,  and  an  account  of  a  visit  of  that  prelate  to 
our  inventor,  as  given  by  Evelyn,  who  accompanied  the 
Archbishop,  possesses  so  much  interest  that  it  is  here 


WRITING.  127 

transcribed.  Evelyn,  in  his  Diary,  says,  "  On  the  25th 
of  October,  1695,  the  Archbishop  and  myself  went 
to  Hammersmith  to  visit  Sir  Samuel  Morland,  who  was 
entirely  blind,  a  very  mortifying  sight.  He  showed  us 
his  invention  of  writing,  which  was  very  ingenious. 
Also  his  wooden  calendar,  which  instructed  him  all  by 
feeling,  and  other  pretty  and  useful  inventions  of  mills, 
pumps,  etc.  And  the  pump  he  had  erected  that 
serves  water  to  his  garden  and  to  passengers,  with  an 
inscription,  and  brings  from  a  most  filthy  part  of  the 
Thames  near  it,  a  most  perfect  and  pure  water.  He 
had  newly  buried  £200  worth  of  music  books,  being, 
as  he  said,  love  songs  and  vanity.  He  plays  himself 
psalms  and  religious  hymns,  on  the  '  theorbo ' "  (an 
instrument  resembling  the  lute  or  guitar).  The  in- 
scription to  which  Evelyn  refers,  was  on  a  stone  tablet 
fixed  on  the  wall,  and  is  said  to  be  still  preserved.  The 
following  is  given  as  a  copy  : — "  Sir  Samuel  Morland's 
Well,  the  use  of  which  he  freely  gives  to  all  persons, 
hoping  that  none  who  shall  come  after  him  will  adven- 
ture to  incur  God's  displeasure  by  denying  a  cup  of 
cold  water  (provided  at  another's  cost,  and  not  their 
own)  to  either  neighbour,  stranger,  passenger,  or  poor 
thirsty  beggar.  July  8,  1695." 

Here  we  have  the  existence  of  the  first  drinking- 
fountain,  which  was  the  precursor  of  a  system  that  now 
diffuses  its  benefits  through  the  length  and  breadth  of 
the  land ;  and  it  should  not  be  forgotten  that  it  was 
a  blind  man  who  thus  originated  this  beneficent  scheme. 
After  his  loss  of  sight,  Sir  Samuel  wrote  a  little  work 
entitled  'The  Urum  of  Conscience,'  the  burden  of 
which  was  man's  utter  insignificance  in  view  of  the 
greatness  of  the  Creator. 

The  death  of  Sir  Samuel  Morland  occurred  in  1695, 
when  he  had  reached  the  age  of  threescore  years  and 
ten.  Since  the  time  of  the  sightless  baronet  who  in- 
vented the  first  writing  appliance  for  the  blind,  very 
'many  plans  have  been  introduced  to  carry  out  the 


128  BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 

same  design,  the  number  being  greatly  increased  by 
the  circumstance  that,  in  the  majority  of  cases,  each 
inventor  supposed  himself  to  be  the  only  labourer  in 
the  field.  Some  idea  of  the  number  of  plans  may  be 
gathered  from  the  fact  that  the  author  has  himself  used 
more  than  sixty  different  inventions  for  enabling  the 
blind  to  write.  The  various  appliances  connected  with 
the  art  of  writing  may  be  divided  into  three  classes, 
viz.,  those  which  produce  writing  that  can  be  read 
only  by  the  sighted ;  those,  the  writing  of  which  is 
intended  only  to  be  read  by  the  blind ;  and  those  that 
produce  writing  capable  of  being  read  both  by  the 
sighted  and  by  the  blind.  To  the  first  of  these  three 
classes  by  far  the  greater  number  of  the  inventions 
belong,  and  the  writing  is  effected  either  by  a  black- 
lead  pencil  on  common  paper,  or  by  a  stile,  which 
presses  carbonized  paper  upon  white,  similar  to  the 
action  of  the  copying-press  used  in  mercantile  offices. 
The  most  typical,  and  best  known  of  this  class  of  inven- 
tions, are  severally  known  as  '  Haiiy's/  or  '  The  French/ 
'  Wedgwood's/  'Stidolph's/  and  the  writing-card.  The 
method  adopted  by  Haiiy  consisted  in  a  number  of 
cords  being  stretched  across  a  wooden  frame,  so  as  to 
allow  of  writing  being  performed  between  every  two  of 
them,  but  no  arrangement  existed  for  the  making  of 
tall  and  tailed  letters.  Wedgwood's  plan  consists  of  a 
series  of  wires,  between  which  the  writing  is  effected 
either  with  a  pencil  or  style.  In  the  earlier  frames  the 
wires  were  fixed  like  those  of  a  gridiron,  but  later  they 
were  attached  to  india-rubber,  so  that  on  pressure  they 
yielded  to  allow  the  tails  of  the  letters  to  be  made. 
Stidolph's  method,  unlike  that  of  Wedgwood's,  instead 
of  displaying  a  series  of  lines,  has  only  one  ruler,  along 
which  the  pencil  travels.  The  ruler  is  attached  to 
springs  to  allow  it  to  descend  for  the  tails.  Originally 
there  was  no  guide  for  the  tall  letters,  but  at  the  sug- 
gestion of  the  author  of  these  pages,  a  ruler  with  springs 
was  put  at  the  top  of  the  line  as  well  as  at  the  bottom, 


WRITING.  129 

thus  regulating  every  part  of  the  letter.  When  a  fresh 
line  was  required,  the  hand-guide  containing  the  rulers 
was  moved  one  degree  downwards  by  means  of  pegs, 
which  fitted  into  holes  at  each  side  of  the  frame,  and 
which,  by  a  very  ingenious  contrivance,  were  compelled 
always  to  form  a  straight  line.  The  inventions  by 
the  late  W.  Hughes,  of  Manchester,  and  M.  Focoult, 
of  Paris,  for  enabling  the  blind  to  print  the  common 
letters,  which  can  be  read  by  sight,  but  cannot  be  felt, 
exhibit  much  ingenuity,  but  their  costliness  interferes 
greatly  with  their  utility.  The  price  of  the  apparatus 
by  W.  Hughes  is  six  guineas,  and  that  by  M.  Focoult 
about  £2.  The  writing-card  is  by  far  the  most  efficient 
contrivance  for  pencil-writing,  and  it  is  produced  at 
one- twentieth  of  the  cost  of  any  other  appliance.  The 
idea  of  this  useful  instrument  was  given  to  the  author 
by  a  blind  gentleman,  F.  Green,  Esq.,  of  the  eminent 
ship-building  firm  of  Blackwall,  and  it  has  been  the 
means  of  enabling  hundreds  of  persons  to  correspond 
with  their  friends,  who  would  otherwise  have  been 
cut  off  from  that  inestimable  privilege.  Yea,  more  !  in 
very  many  cases  it  has  been  the  means  of  restoring 
hope  to  those  who,  having  become  blind,  and  being  sur- 
rounded with  poverty  and  the  other  attendant  evils  of 
loss  of  sight,  were  sinking  lower  and  lower  into  the 
depths  of  helplessness  and  despondency.  These  per- 
sons, on  finding  that  by  the  slightest  effort  of  will  they 
were  enabled  to  return  to  their  former  habits  of  life  in 
so  important  a  matter  as  writing  their  own  letters, 
began  to  think  that,  after  all,  their  condition  was  not 
as  bad  as  they  had  thought  it,  and  that,  at  any  rate, 
however  bad  it  might  be,  they  would  make  the  best  of 
it.  For  a  description  of  the  writing-card,  and  the 
method  of  using  it,  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  Appen- 
dix. 

The  appliances,  the  writing  of  which  is  intended 
only  to  be  read  by  the  blind,  are  several  in  number ; 
the  chief  are  those  invented  by  Messrs.  Braille,  Carton, 


130  BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 

Hughes,  and  Wood.  The  Braille  method  is  exceed- 
ingly simple,  the  whole  of  the  letters  being  made  by 
the  multiplication  of  a  simple  dot,  to  produce  which 
an  awl  with  a  blunt  point  is  employed.  This  awl  is 
used  to  press  the  paper  upon  a  metal  tablet  covered 
with  horizontal  grooves,  three  of  which  form  a  line ; 
a  tangible  embossment  is  thus  produced  which  may  be 
applied  either  to  literature  or  music.  The  position  of 
the  letters  is  regulated  by  a  strip  of  metal  placed  hori- 
zontally upon  the  paper,  covered  with  small  holes  of  an 
oblong  shape,  each  of  which  is  calculated  for  the  space 
of  a  letter.  The  strip  contains  two  lines  of  holes,  so 
that  it  has  only  to  be  moved  down  the  frame  every 
alternate  line.  Holes  at  the  sides  of  the  frame  regu- 
late the  distance  between  the  lines,  as  pins  connected 
with  the  strip  of  metal  fit  into  them  as  required.  The 
letters  of  this  system  are  not  equidistant,  as  the  same 
space  is  allowed  for  characters  of  different  degrees  of 
breadth.  The  want  of  variety  in  the  surface  of  a 
page  of  reading  is  far  from  pleasing  to  the  touch,  and 
the  absence  of  continuity  produced  by  the  letters 
being  formed  entirely  of  dots,  tends  to  confuse  the 
perception,  and  consequently  produces  hesitation  and 
error.  These  remarks  apply  equally  to  the  system  of 
the  Abbe  Carton,  which  resembles  the  Braille  method 
in  everything,  except  that  the  alphabet  bears  some  re- 
semblance to  the  Roman  letters,  and  that  the  writing- 
frame  is  chiefly  of  wood,  and  is  often  made  small  and 
sufficiently  portable  for  the  coat  pocket.  The  frame 
by  G.  A.  Hughes  is  intended  to  produce  by  hand  the 
same  characters  as  those  employed  in  his  system  of 
reading,  of  which  an  account  has  been  given  in  the 
article  on  printing.  His  frame  is  also  used  to  em- 
boss music. 

The  apparatus  by  W.  Wood  is  for  the  production 
of  Lucas's  characters,  which  it  effects  with  ease  and 
speed,  but  both  the  methods  of  Hughes  and  Wood 
have  now  fallen  into  disuse.  The  prices  were — 


WEITING.  181 

Hughes's  apparatus,  £2.  2s.  and  Wood's  frame  £1.  Is., 
while  the  cost  of  a  Braille  appliance  is  from  one  to 
five  shillings,  and  that  of  Carton  may  be  procured 
at  the  same  rate.  Many  inventions  have  been  in- 
troduced to  effect  writing  capable  of  being  deciphered 
both  by  the  sighted  and  by  the  blind ;  but  they  all 
lack  the  essential  quality  of  cheapness,  without  which 
any  appliance,  whatever  its  merits,  might  almost  as 
well  never  have  existed,  as  blindness  and  poverty 
are  nearly  synonymous. 

The  contrivances  by  a  gentleman  of  Copenhagen,  by 
a  resident  at  Baltimore,  U.S.,  by  W.  Hughes,  and 
many  others,  contain  various  excellent  qualities,  but 
they  are  all  surpassed  in  general  utility  by  the  method 
of  pricking  the  common  letters  on  paper  by  means  of 
pins  inserted  into  small  pieces  of  wood.  The  earliest 
notice  of  this  system  occurs  in  connection  with  the 
biography  of  Mademoiselle  de  Salignac,  who  about 
the  year  1760  was  in  the  habit  of  writing  to  her 
friends  by  means  of  pricked  letters,  which  she  could 
detect  with  her  fingers.  This  plan  was  also  used  by 
Weissemborg,  of  Mannheim,  and  by  Mademoiselle  de 
Paradis,  of  Vienna  and  Paris,  about  the  year  1780. 
These  facts,  however,  have  not  prevented  several 
writers  from  claiming  the  invention  as  their  own, 
amongst  whom  may  be  mentioned  Klein  of  Vienna, 
Funk  of  Switzerland,  and  Alston  of  Glasgow.  In 
1851  (being  painfully  struck  with  the  circumstance 
that  neither  at  the  International  Exhibition  of  that 
year  nor  yet  in  all  England  could  a  blind  person  pro- 
cure a  cheap  and  efficient  means  of  communicating 
with  his  friends  in  a  way  which  would  enable  him  to 
be  sure  that  he  had  actually  sent  a  letter,  and  had  not 
forwarded  a  piece  of  paper  which  might  or  might  not 
have  received  the  marks  of  the  pencil  he  had  passed 
over  it)  the  writer  of  these  pages  determined  to  uti- 
lize his  experience  by  the  production  of  a  cheap  and 
efficient  writing-desk,  and  he  so  far  succeeded  that  a 


132  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

superior  appliance  was  brought  into  the  market  for 
ten  shillings  to  any  that  had  been  sold  for  one  pound. 
For  a  description  of  this  writing-desk  the  reader  is 
referred  to  the  Appendix. 

Every  blind  man  requires  that,  through  the  medium 
of  writing,  he  should  be  enabled  to  communicate  with 
the  public  at  large, — should  have  the  power  of  making 
his  own  memoranda,  and  should  be  in  a  position 
to  sign  bank  checks  and  all  kinds  of  legal  docu- 
ments. 

For  general  correspondence  pencil-writing  is  doubt- 
less the  easiest  mode,  and  for  those  who  have  become 
blind  after  having  arrived  at  man's  estate  it  is  inva- 
luable. But  in  the  case  of  persons  who  lost  their  sight 
in  early  life,  and  who  in  consequence  have  not  become 
accustomed  to  the  method  of  forming  the  common 
writing  letters,  it  is  desirable  to  employ  a  system 
which,  while  it  enables  them  to  communicate  with  the 
sighted,  at  the  same  time  gives  them  the  power  of 
reading  what  they  have  written,  in  order  that  they 
may  test  its  correctness.  And  here  it  may  be  remarked 
that  it  could  be  wished  that  those  who  became  blind 
when  adults  should  possess  the  same  advantages  as 
those  who  lost  their  sight  in  youth ;  but  that  expe- 
rience shows  that  owing  to  the  knowledge  they  ob- 
tained of  the  common  writing  letters  when  they  could 
see,  and  in  consequence  of  the  comparative  dulness  of 
their  touch,  almost  insuperable  difficulties  exist  to  the 
attainment  of  this  object,  and  in  consequence  it  is  de- 
sirable that  they  should  adopt  pencil-writing,  as  it 
is  better  that  they  should  write  to  their  friends  with- 
out being  able  to  tell  whether  or  not  their  letters  are 
written  correctly,  rather  than  not  write  at  all.  To  en- 
able the  blind  to  make  memoranda,  so  as  in  any  way 
to  resemble  the  power  enjoyed  by  the  sighted,  it  is 
requisite  that  the  method  employed  should  be  capable 
of  being  quickly  written  and  easily  read.  It  should 


WRITING.  133 

be  so  available  at  all  times  and  places  that,  without 
having  to  seek  any  apparatus  but  what  can  be  carried 
in  the  pocket  without  sensible  increase  of  weight  or 
bulk,  a  blind  man  may  be  enabled  to  record  facts  with 
as  much  facility  as  sighted  stenographers.  The  sys- 
tem which  approaches  most  nearly  to  this  desidera- 
tum is  one  that  has  been  employed  by  the  writer  for 
many  years,  and  which  he  hopes  soon  to  place  at  the 
disposal  of  the  blind  generally. 

In  signing  checks  and  legal  documents,  the  use  of 
ink  is  absolutely  necessary.  In  this  matter  those  who 
could  write  before  becoming  blind  experience  very 
little  difficulty  ;  but  with  those  who  lost  their  sight  in 
infancy  the  case  is  very  different,  for  the  most  arduous 
achievement  of  many  clever  blind  persons  has  been  to 
perform  the  very  simple  office  of  signing  their  own 
names. 

To  remedy  the  defects  connected  with  this  subject, 
the  author  some  years  ago  invented  a  pen-guide  for 
the  blind,  which  little  instrument  was  the  first  of  the 
kind  ever  introduced,  and  which  will  be  fully  explained 
in  the  Appendix. 

Tangible  writing  copies  are  also  described  in  the 
same  part  of  this  volume,  and  their  value  in  connec- 
tion with  the  pen-guide  is  far  from  inconsiderable. 

How  the  seeing  should  write  to  the  blind  is  a  matter 
which  has  long  occupied  the  attention  of  tuphlologists 
without  receiving  a  satisfactory  solution.  Some  per- 
sons have  written  with  thick  gum-water  or  viscid  ink, 
and,  after  having  traced  a  few  words,  have  sprinkled 
the  writing  with  fine  sand  or  pounce,  when,  on  drying 
the  paper  at  the  fire,  a  tolerable  relief  has  been  pro- 
duced ;  others  have  used  pounded  sealing-wax,  which, 
on  being  melted  by  the  heat  of  a  fire  and  afterwards 
allowed  to  cool,  has  produced  lines  much  smoother 
than  those  formed  by  sand.  Various  attempts  have 
been  made  to  introduce  a  composition  which  could  be 
applied  by  a  pen  and  read  with  the  finger  as  soon  as 


134  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

dry,  and  one  of  the  most  successful  of  these  efforts  is 
due  to  the  persevering  labours  of  Dr.  Foules,  of  Edin- 
burgh, who  about  the  middle  of  the  present  century 
introduced  a  composition  which  he  named  "  Tangible 
Ink." 

All  these  attempts,  however,  have  been  far  from 
satisfactory,  as  more  care  is  required  in  the  execution 
than  can  be  given  by  an  ordinary  person  who  wishes 
to  write  a  letter.  The  author  has  employed  with  con- 
siderable success  a  mixture  of  gum,  flour,  and  water, 
which  is  applied  to  the  paper  by  means  of  a  small 
brush  made  of  camel's  hair  or  fitch;  but  this  plan, 
although  free  from  many  of  the  objections  connected 
with  those  before  named,  does  not  offer  sufficient  ad- 
vantages for  general  adoption.  The  best  mode  that 
any  sighted  person  can  adopt  in  writing  to  the  blind 
is  to  prick  the  letters  with  a  pin  on  moderately  thick 
paper  of  good  quality;  and  should  a  regular  correspon- 
dence be  desired,  a  set  of  pin-type  might  be  procured, 
which  would  be  a  great  saving  of  time.  The  writer, 
however,  should  proceed  in  his  operations  from  right 
to  left,  and  should  not  remove  one  letter  until  the  next 
is  pressed  upon  the  paper. 

These  stamps  or  type  may  be  purchased  without  a 
frame  for  three  shillings  and  sixpence,  and  their  use  is 
more  fully  described  in  the  Appendix,  in  connection 
with  the  apparatus  to  enable  the  blind  to  write  so 
that  their  letters  may  be  read  either  by  the  blind  or 
by  the  sighted. 

Embossing  common  letters  with  a  style  has  often 
been  attempted,  but  with  very  little  success,  and,  on 
the  whole,  pricked  letters  are  to  be  preferred  in  cor- 
responding with  the  blind. 


135 

ARITHMETIC   AND  ALGEBRA. 

As  it  is  usually  found  that  the  blind  have  a  strong 
inclination  to  cultivate  their  reflective  powers,  it  is  by 
no  means  surprising  to  observe  the  fondness  they 
generally  display  for  arithmetical  calculations.  It  is 
undoubted  that  under  ordinary  circumstances  the 
practice  of  mental  arithmetic  should  be  especially  en- 
couraged, and  that  this  mode  of  calculation  is  sufficient 
to  meet  the  wants  of  the  blind  as  a  class.  Never- 
theless, there  is  evidence  to  show  that  in  the  more 
advanced  branches  of  the  science  of  arithmetic,  per- 
sons without  sight  need  the  assistance  of  a  slate, 
adapted  to  their  wants,  almost  as  much  as  those 
who  are  enabled  to  see,  and  we  accordingly  find  that 
various  efforts  have  been  made  to  supply  this  ne- 
cessity. The  first  known  attempt  to  construct  a  tan- 
gible arithmetical  apparatus  was  made  by  the  great 
Saunderson,  early  in  the  eighteenth  century,  who,  find- 
ing, doubtless,  that  the  abstruse  calculations  in  which 
he  constantly  engaged,  made  a  great  strain  on  his 
memory,  devised  an  appliance  which  enabled  him  to 
perform  and  record  all  the  operations  connected  with 
arithmetic  and  algebra;  and  as  this  contrivance  was 
the  parent  of  all  that  followed  it,  and  as  it  was  intro- 
duced by  the  greatest  blind  mathematician  who  ever 
lived,  we  shall  proceed  to  give  some  explanation  of 
its  details,  taken  from  the  ( Encyclopedia  Britannica ' 
article  "  Blind  :"— 

"  Imagine  a  square  divided  into  four  equal  parts  by 
perpendicular  lines  at  the  sides,  in  such  a  manner  that 
it  may  present  the  nine  points,  1,  2,  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  8,  9. 
Suppose  this  square  pierced  with  nine  holes  capable  of 
receiving  pins  of  two  kinds,  all  of  equal  length  and 
thickness,  but  some  with  heads  a  little  larger  than 
the  others.  The  pins  with  large  heads  are  never  placed 
anywhere  else  but  in  the  centre  of  the  square;  those 


136  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

with  smaller  heads,  never  but  at  the  sides,  except  in  one 
single  case,  which  is  that  of  making  the  figure  1,  where 
none  are  placed  at  the  sides.  The  sign  of  0  is  made 
by  placing  a  pin  with  a  large  head  in  the  centre  of  the 
little  square,  without  putting  any  other  pin  at  the  sides. 
The  number  1  is  represented  by  a  pin  with  a  small  head 
placed  in  the  centre  of  the  square,  without  putting  any 
other  pin  at  the  sides ;  the  number  2,  by  a  pin  with  a 
large  head  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  square,  and  by  a 
pin  with  a  small  head  placed  on  one  of  the  sides  ;  the 
number  3,  by  a  pin  with  a  large  head  placed  in  the 
centre  of  the  square,  and  by  a  pin  with  a  small  head 
placed  on  one  of  the  sides ;  the  number  4,  by  a  pin  with 
a  large  head  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  square,  and  by 
a  pin  with  a  small  head  placed  on  one  of  the  sides  ; 
the  number  5,  by  a  pin  with  a  large  head  placed  in  the 
centre  of  the  square,  and  by  a  pin  with  a  small  head 
placed  on  one  of  the  sides ;  the  number  6,  by  a  pin 
with  a  large  head  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  square, 
and  by  a  pin  with  a  small  head  placed  on  one  of  the 
sides  ;  the  number  7,  by  a  pin  with  a  large  head  placed 
in  the  centre  of  the  square,  and  by  a  pin  with  a  small 
head  placed  on  one  of  the  sides ;  the  number  8,  by  a  pin 
with  a  large  head  placed  in  the  centre  of  the  square,  and 
by  a  pin  with  a  small  head  placed  on  one  of  the  sides ; 
the  number  9,  by  a  pin  with  a  large  head  placed  in  the 
centre  of  the  square,  and  by  a  pin  with  a  small  head 
placed  on  one  of  the  sides."  Besides  the  appliance 
contrived  by  Saunderson,  the  writer  is  acquainted  with 
twelve  other  inventions  for  the  same  object ;  in  all  of 
these,  however,  the  figures  and  other  signs  are  re- 
presented by  pegs  or  pins  (of  wood,  bone,  or  metal), 
being  placed  into  holes  in  a  board,  or  cushion,  as  re- 
quired by  the  operator.  In  some  cases  the  pegs  em- 
ployed have  only  a  character  or  sign  at  one  end,  and  in 
others  both  ends  of  the  pegs  are  so  employed ;  in  some 
inventions  also  the  holes  in  the  board  are  square,  in 
others  pentagonal,  and  in  others  octangular  j  and  in 


ARITHMETIC   AND   ALGEBRA.  137 

some  contrivances  the  figures  are  represented  simply  by 
common  pins,  with  heads  and  sharp  points,  which  are 
thrust  in  different  positions  into  an  ordinary  pin- 
cushion. In  general,  a  number  of  little  boxes  are 
attached  to  the  board  to  receive  the  different  kinds 
of  pegs,  which  have  to  be  carefully  sorted  into  the 
boxes  every  time  they  have  been  used.  In  connection 
however,  with  the  pentagonal  and  octangular  systems, 
only  one  kind  of  peg  is  employed,  and  consequently 
no  sorting  is  required.  The  pentagonal  mode  was 
adopted  at  Edinburgh  and  Glasgow,  forty  years  since, 
and  the  octangular  was  invented  by  the  Rev.  W. 
Taylor  about  the  year  1852.  Whenever  in  any  of 
the  above  inventions  more  characters  are  required  for 
algebra,  additional  pegs  are  used. 

As  a  detailed  description  of  each  of  the  methods  of 
tangible  arithmetic  would  be  altogether  superfluous,  we 
will  merely  give  as  a  sample  the  following  explanation 
of  the  pentagonal  system  :  "  The  board  generally  used 
is  16  inches  by  12,  and  contains  400  pentagonal  holes 
with  a  space  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch  between  each.  The 
pin  is  simply  a  pentagon  with  a  projection  at  one  end 
on  an  angle,  and  on  the  other  end  on  the  side.  Being 
placed  in  the  board,  with  a  corner  projection  to  the 
left  upper  corner  of  the  board,  it  represents  1  ;  pro- 
ceeding to  the  right  upper  corner  it  is  3  ;  the  next 
corner  in  succession  is  5  ;  the  next  7,  and  the  last  9. 
In  like  manner  the  side  projection,  by  being  turned 
to  the  sides  of  the  hole  progressively  gives  2,  4,  6, 
8,  0." 

The  writer  having  found  that  none  of  the  contri- 
vances to  which  reference  has  been  made  really  gave 
to  the  blind  what  was  desirable  in  a  system  of  tangible 
arithmetic,  constructed  about  the  year  1860  an  appara- 
tus, which  will  be  fully  described  in  the  Appendix, 
and  of  which  it  need  only  be  said  here  that  it  is  sold  at 
half  the  price  of  any  similar  appliance  giving  anything 
like  the  same  advantages.  Before  quitting  this  subject, 


138  BLINDNESS   AND   TOE    BLIND. 

it  may  be  as  well  to  remark  that  very  good  common 
English  figures  may  be  made  in  gutta  percha;  the  pegs 
themselves  should  be  of  gutta  percha,  and  on  each  end 
should  be  a  figure  in  relief.  An  arithmetical  appliance 
on  this  plan  was  made  by  the  writer  some  years  ago, 
which  was  very  useful  in  enabling  a  sighted  nurse  to 
instruct  her  blind  charge  in  the  first  principles  of  cal- 
culation. The  figures  were  half  an  inch  deep  and 
three-eighths  wide,  and  the  pegs  were  an  inch  long. 


TANGIBLE  MAPS  AND  GLOBES,  ETC. 

Various  attempts  have  been  made  to  form  suitable 
maps  for  the  blind,  the  earliest  recorded  effort  being 
that  of  Herr  Weissemborg,  of  Mannheim.  This  Ger- 
man gentleman  having  lost  his  sight  when  seven  years 
old,  and  finding  on  reaching  maturity  no  means  pro- 
vided for  the  education  of  the  blind,  set  about  con- 
triving a  number  of  appliances  to  carry  out  that 
object.  Among  these  inventions  were  a  writing-desk, 
the  fundamental  principle  of  which  is  still  the  basis  of 
similar  contrivances,  and  an  arithmetical  apparatus  re- 
sembling, it  is  said,  that  by  Saunderson.  Herr  Weis- 
semborg also  conceived  the  idea  of  forming  tangible 
maps,  for  which  purpose  he  availed  himself  of  the  em- 
broiderer's art;  the  boundaries  being  represented  by 
narrow  lines  of  work,  the  mountains  by  thicker  lines, 
and  towns  and  cities  by  glass  or  steel  beads  of  various 
sizes.  These  maps  were  moderately  effective,  but  their 
costliness  prevented  their  being  widely  used.  Since 
1780  many  and  varied  have  been  the  exertions  made 
in  almost  every  country  in  Europe  and  in  the  United 
States  of  America,  to  give  the  sightless  a  cheap  and  easy 
means  of  studying  Physical  Geography  ;  but  we  regret 
to  say  that  the  results  of  these  efforts  have  proved  far 
from  satisfactory.  This  want  of  success,  however,  has 
not  been  caused  by  any  inherent  difficulty  in  the  case. 


TANGIBLE    MAPS   AND   GLOBES,    ETC.  139 

but  lias  proceeded  simply,  as  it  would  appear,  from  the 
caterers  not  sufficiently  understanding  the  wants  of 
the  blind  in  connection  with  tangible  maps,  and  the 
means  best  adapted  to  meet  those  wants. 

Efficient  tangible  maps,  in  addition  to  possessing 
the  indispensable  requisite  [of  cheapness,  must  also 
contain  the  following  qualities  : — the  land  and  water 
must  be  readily  distinguished  from  each  other,  the 
courses  of  rivers  and  mountains  easily  traced,  and  the 
situation  and  relative  importance  of  towns  accurately 
indicated ;  they  should  also  be  capable  of  being  con- 
sulted by  the  blind  student  without  sighted  aid.  The 
various  maps  invented  naturally  divide  themselves  into 
two  classes,  viz.  those  which  are  made  by  hand  and 
those  printed  from  relief  plates.  In  the  former  class, 
besides  those  made  by  embroidery  and  needlework, 
may  be  mentioned  such  as  are  formed  by  having  the 
shapes  of  countries,  etc.  cut  out  in  wood,  and  such  as 
are  made  by  having  the  land  of  an  ordinary  map  used 
by  the  sighted,  pasted  upon  the  land  of  another  similar 
map,  thus  causing  the  whole  surface  of  the  land  to  be 
raised  above  the  water,  and  also  enabling  a  sighted 
person  easily  to  teach  the  blind. 

In  these  maps  mountains  and  towns  are  shown  by 
brass-headed  pins  of  different  sizes,  which  are  put 
through  the  map  and  clinched  at  the  back.  Maps 
printed  in  relief  from  plates  are  necessarily  much 
cheaper  than  those  made  by  hand.  In  general  the 
boundaries  in  printed  maps  are  indicated  by  raised 
lines,  and  the  towns  marked  by  dots,  no  distinction 
being  usually  made  between  land  and  water.  In 
those,  however,  printed  by  Dr.  Howe,  of  Boston,  U.S., 
the  water  is  raised  above  the  land,  which  injurious 
practice  has  been  imitated  by  Mr.  Moon,  of  Brighton, 
in  some  of  his  productions. 

The  idea  of  water  being  raised  above  land  is  so  un- 
natural, that  the  mind  never  thoroughly  becomes  ac- 
customed to  it,  and  this  produces  constant  irritation 


140  BLINDNESS  AND   THE   BLIND. 

and  uncertainty  in  consulting  maps  so  arranged.  The 
maps  invented  by  Haiiy,  and  still  used  in  France,  are 
made  by  hand.  They  are  expensive  and  very  ineffi- 
cient. Herr  Zeune,  the  director  of  "The  Institution 
for  the  Blind "  at  Berlin,  invented  some  years  ago 
maps  of  very  perfect  construction ;  the  various  eleva- 
tions on  the  surface  of  the  earth  being  given  on  a 
regularly  graduated  scale  :  thus,  if  land  one  thousand 
feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea  is  represented  on  the 
map  by  a  substance  the  tenth  of  an  inch  thick,  land 
which  is  ten  thousand  feet  above  the  level  of  the  sea  is 
indicated  by  a  substance  of  the  thickness  of  an  inch. 
The  utility  of  this  invention  in  the  case  of  institutions, 
and  for  the  use  of  pupils  of  the  wealthy  classes  is  un- 
doubted, but  the  costliness  of  maps  constructed  on  such 
a  principle  places  the  advantages  of  the  system  beyond 
the  reach  of  the  blind  generally.  The  mode  adopted 
by  Herr  Zeune  is  so  admirable  that  it  has  been  employed 
in  common  schools,  and  it  forms  perhaps  the  only  in- 
stance in  which  an  invention,  originally  intended  for 
the  blind,  has  proved  of  signal  advantage  to  the 
sighted.  A  map  of  England  and  Wales  containing 
many  good  points  was  issued  some  years  ago  by  Mr. 
Alston,  of  Glasgow.  In  it  the  boundary  lines  of  the 
various  counties  are  given,  the  capital  cities  are  indi- 
cated by  square  dots,  and  the  towns  by  those  of  a 
round  form.  The  initial  letter  of  each  county  is  also 
embossed,  which  is  of  great  service,  as  it  enables  any 
one  quickly  to  ascertain  the  name  of  the  locality  under 
examination.  Mountains  and  rivers,  however,  are  not 
clearly  indicated,  and  the  map  would  have  been  of 
more  value  if  the  relief  had  been  higher,  and  if  it  had 
been  accompanied  by  an  embossed  page  of  explana- 
tions ;  but  although  it  has  many  defects,  it  is  much  to 
be  regretted  that  it  is  now  out  of  print,  as  it  is  cer- 
tainly the  best  ever  produced  in  this  country.  The 
maps  sold  by  Mr.  Moon,  of  Brighton,  are  of  the  most 
meagre  description,  and  only  deserve  the  name  of  out- 


TANGIBLE    MAPS   AND   GLOBES,    ETC.  141 

lines.  The  signs  used  for  mountains,  etc.  are  calcu- 
lated to  convey  the  most  erroneous  impressions.  In 
America  the  philanthropic  Dr.  Howe,  of  Boston,  has 
issued  several  atlases,  which  in  many  respects  contain 
the  best  tangible  maps  yet  produced.  They,  however, 
possess  a  few  radical  defects,  which  greatly  interfere 
with  their  usefulness.  The  globes  hitherto  made  for 
the  blind  are  large  and  expensive,  but  tolerably  effi- 
cient. They  were  executed  by  the  best  globe-makers 
of  London  and  other  large  towns,  and  in  general  con- 
tain in  a  raised  form  the  various  signs  and  marks  to 
be  found  in  similar  productions  for  the  sighted ;  it  is, 
however,  much  to  be  wished  that  portable  globes  were 
made  for  sale,  which  might  be  done  cheaply  and  with- 
out much  trouble.  The  writer  has  long  desired  to 
produce  maps  and  globes  possessing  greater  advan- 
tages than  any  now  existing;  but  various  engage- 
ments have  compelled  him  to  forego  the  gratification 
of  his  wishes,  and  devote  himself  to  more  immediate 
duties.  He  hopes,  however,  that  the  time  may  come 
when  his  anticipations  may  be  fully  realized. 

Before  quitting  this  subject  it  may  be  useful  to 
name  that  whenever  a  tangible  map  is  required  that 
cannot  be  purchased,  it  may  be  made  by  taking  an 
ordinary  map  as  used  by  the  sighted,  and  pricking  the 
boundary  lines  very  slightly  with  the  point  of  a  fine 
needle  from  the  front  to  the  back  of  the  map,  and 
then  with  a  coarser  needle  pricking  the  same  lines 
through  from  the  back  to  the  front.  In  this  way  very 
excellent  maps  may  be  produced,  but  it  is  a  work  of 
time  and  patience.  Rivers  may  be  shown  by  double 
pricked  lines,  towns  by  dots  embossed  from  the  back 
with  a  blunt  instrument,  and  mountains  by  a  succes- 
sion of  similar  dots.  The  map  chosen  should  be  on  a 
large  scale,  and  if  the  initial  letter  of  each  locality  is 
pricked  in  the  proper  place,  it  will  be  of  great  service 
to  the  pupil.  The  mariner's  compass,  introduced  by 
the  Rev.  W.  Taylor,  and  improved  by  the  writer,  will 


142  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

be  found  very  useful  in  connection  with  the  study  of 
geography. 

Tangible  orreries  have  been  made  with  success  at 
the  School  for  the  Blind,  St.  John's  Wood,  London, 
and  at  the  Institution  at  Lausanne.  The  planets  are 
represented  by  balls  of  different  sizes,  which  are  at- 
tached to  rods  working  on  pins,  so  as  to  represent  the 
revolutions  of  the  heavenly  bodies. 


MATHEMATICAL  DIAGRAMS  AXD  PICTURES. 

Many  attempts  have  been  made  to  introduce  em- 
bossed pictures,  but  as  the  perception  of  colour  and 
distance  are  essential  to  the  due  appreciation  of  any- 
thing connected  with  the  illustrative  art,  these  at- 
tempts have  proved  utter  failures.  To  persons  blind 
from  infancy  lines  embossed  to  indicate  a  bird,  beast, 
or  fish,  simply  give  the  idea  of  an  intricate  contriv- 
ance, which  may  mean  anything  you  like  to  name. 
When  the  persons  or  things  cannot  themselves  be  felt, 
the  blind  require  models  or  stuffed  specimens,  a  good 
museum  of  which  existed  some  years  ago  in  connection 
with  the  Association  for  Promoting  the  General  'Wel- 
fare of  the  Blind,  London,  and  it  is  much  to  be  wished 
that  every  institution  were  supplied  with  a  similar  col- 
lection. The  managers  of  the  Association  above-named 
were  compelled  to  relinquish  the  museum  for  want 
of  space,  but  they  would  be  only  too  happy  to  have  it 
in  their  power  to  reorganize  the  plan ;  and  here  we  can- 
not help  expressing  surprise  that  no  provision  should 
be  made  for  the  blind  in  connection  with  the  national 
and  local  museums  of  the  country.  Surely  thirty 
thousand  human  beings  are  not  the  less  to  be  cared 
for,  because  they  have  the  misfortune  of  being  blind. 
Of  course,  it  has  been  supposed  that  articles  displayed 
in  ordinary  museums  are  of  no  use  to  persons  with- 


MATHEMATICAL   DIAGRAMS   AND   PICTURES.  143 

out  sight;  this  idea  is  altogether  an  error,  for  all 
stuffed  objects,  models,  shells  and  specimens,,  con- 
nected with  mineralogy,  botany,  etc.  etc.,  may  be  ex- 
amined by  the  blind  with  great  advantage.  No  doubt 
the  fear  of  injury  to  articles  from  being  handled,  has 
had  something  to  do  with  the  neglect  of  the  blind  in 
this  matter,  but  we  would  venture  to  suggest  that 
an  official  connected  with  the  museum  should  be  allowed 
to  accompany  blind  visitors  to  afford  information,  and  to 
see  that  no  objects  were  examined  that  would  suffer  from 
being  felt ;  and  if  it  be  too  much  to  expect  that  these 
services  should  be  gratuitously  rendered,  we  might  ask 
that  the  blind  should  be  allowed  to  engage  the  aid 
of  such  an  attendant  by  the  payment  of  a  small  fee  ; 
but  we  are  not  fastidious  about  details,  and  only  wish 
earnestly  to  recommend  the  subject  to  the  attention  of 
the  national  Government,  and  of  all  who  take  any 
interest  in  the  management  of  museums.  Since  writ- 
ing the  above,  it  has  been  ascertained  that  at  the 
Prussian  town  of  Breslau  the  public  museums  are 
freely  opened  to  the  blind  without  any  restriction  what- 
ever ;  and  surely  what  the  Germans  do  in  this  instance 
is  worthy  of  imitation.  At  Vienna  bas-relief  figures 
of  animals  have  been  made  in  copper,  but  these  speci- 
mens although  superior  to  embossed  pictures,  as  they 
are  called,  do  not  enable  the  blind  to  judge  accurately 
of  the  things  represented,  as  persons  without  sight  re- 
quire to  examine  all  the  details  of  an  object,  to  arrive 
at  a  just  appreciation  of  its  form,  and  for  this  reason 
stuffed  animals  and  models  are  to  be  preferred  to  all 
other  modes  of  illustration.  To  form  geometrical  lines, 
Dr.  Saunderson,  the  great  blind  mathematician,  used 
to  place  pegs  into  holes  in  a  board  in  different  posi- 
tions according  to  the  figure  he  wished  to  describe, 
and  then  make  the  lines  required  by  passing  a  piece  of 
thread,  or  twine,  round  the  various  pegs,  and  this  mode 
was  also  adopted  in  France  by  Haiiy,  and  his  immediate 
successors.  In  1828,  the  late  Eev.  W.  Taylor,  then 


144  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

Vicar  of  Bishop  Burton,  in  Yorkshire,  published  in  an 
embossed  form  the  diagrams  of  the  first  book  of  Euclid's 
( Elements  of  Geometry/  The  figures  in  this  work  were 
formed  by  raised  lines,  and  were  lettered  in  the  usual 
way,  the  only  difference  being  that  the  characters  were 
tangible  instead  of  coloured.  The  plates  for  the  work 
were  indented,  instead  of  being  in  relief,  which  re- 
quired great  pressure  to  be  employed  to  squeeze  the 
paper  into  the  lines  of  the  plate  so  as  to  produce  an 
embossment,  which  was  formed  on  the  under  instead 
of  the  upper  surface  of  the  paper.  This  attempt  to 
print  tangible  diagrams  was,  it  is  believed,  the  first 
ever  made  ;  and  the  blind  owe  much  to  Mr.  Taylor  for 
this,  and  for  many  other  efforts  on  their  behalf  con- 
tinued throughout  a  period  of  more  than  half  a  century. 
It  must  be  admitted,  however,  that  the  diagrams  were 
far  from  satisfactory,  owing  to  the  fineness  of  the 
lines,  which  resulted  from  the  peculiar  mode  of  printing 
employed. 

A  volume  of  geometrical  figures,  beautifully  raised, 
but  badly  lettered,  was  published  at  the  Paris  Institu- 
tion in  1833,  and  various  sets  of  diagrams,  illustrative 
of  different  subjects  have  been  issued  in  America,  in  all 
of  which  the  lines  forming  the  figures  are  too  fine  to 
be  of  general  use.  By  far  the  best  tangible  diagrams  yet 
issued,  were  embossed  by  W.  Pumphrey,  who,  although 
a  resident  in  York,  is  unconnected  with  the  blind 
school  of  that  city.  This  gentleman  published  in 
1856  a  volume  containing  the  diagrams  of  the  first 
six  books  of  Euclid,  the  figures  of  which  are  beautifully 
raised  and  well  developed,  the  only  defect  being  that 
they  are  somewhat  too  large.  The  pages  were  printed 
from  tin  plates,  on  which  were  soldered  the  diagrams, 
and  letters  made  in  copper  wire,  being  the  same  mode 
of  stereotyping  as  that  invented  by  Mr.  Frere,  and 
imitated  by  Mr.  Moon  and  by  the  present  writer. 

Mr.  Pumphrey's  book  was  expensive,  but  this  was 
chiefly  caused  by  the  smallness  of  the  demand. 


BIOGRAPHY.  145 

In  preparing  a  volume  of  geometrical,  or  other  figures, 
each  diagram  should  be  immediately  followed  by  the 
explanation  printed  in  relief;  this  arrangement  would 
enable  the  student  to  acquire  a  knowledge  of  the 
science  before  him,  without  being  compelled  to  avail 
himself  of  sighted  aid,  which  is  a  matter  of  great 
importance,  and  one  moreover  entirely  overlooked  in 
the  productions  before  named,  which  were  published 
without  the  letterpress  explanations.  In  making  dia- 
grams for  private  use,  the  figures  may  be  pricked  with 
a  needle,  or  be  made  by  means  of  a  little  wheel  with 
sharp  teeth,  generally  found  in  cases  of  drawing  instru- 
ments. The  latter  is  the  quicker  method,  and  answers 
very  well  for  diagrams,  but  will  not  suit  for  maps  and 
intricate  figures.  Diagrams  may  also  be  produced  by 
gumming  string  upon  cardboard  in  any  form  required, 
or  by  pressing  thick  cartridge  paper  upon  a  cloth  or 
leather  cushion,  with  an  ivory  pencil  or  other  blunt  in- 
strument, so  as  to  produce  an  embossment  on  the  reverse 
side  of  the  paper. 


BIOGEAPHY. 

PATRIARCHS,  MONARCHS,  AND  POLITICAL  CHARACTERS. 
Tlie  Patriarch  Isaac. 

The  first  case  of  blindness  recorded  in  history  is 
that  of  Isaac,  the  Jewish  patriarch.  He  was  born 
1896  B.C.,  and  died  at  the  age  of  180.  His  life  is  fully 
given  in  the  book  of  Genesis,  chapters  xxi.  to  xxviii., 
and  chapter  xxxv.,  verses  27  to  29.  He  lost  his 
sight  at  an  advanced  age ;  and  it  is  very  remarkable 
to  find  that  instead  of  his  family  devoting  themselves 
to  the  alleviation  of  his  misfortune,  they  took  advan- 
tage of  his  blindness  to  impose  upon  him  a  cruel  de- 
ception ;  and  although  Esau  his  eldest  son  did  not 
share  the  crime  of  his  brother  Jacob,  and  Rebekah 


146  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

his  mother,  yet  he  consulted  his  father's  feelings  so 
little,  that  he  married  into  the  very  families  that  the 
God  of  his  fathers  had  denounced  for  their  wickedness, 
which  was  a  grief  of  mind  unto  Isaac  and  to  Rebekah. 
We  cannot  do  better  than  transcribe  here  the  beautiful 
account  given  by  the  inspired  historian  of  the  con- 
spiracy of  Rebekah  and  Jacob  to  deceive  their  aged 
and  sightless  husband  and  father ;  and  we  think  the 
reader  will  be  forcibly  struck  with  the  intelligent  use 
made  by  Isaac  of  his  hearing,  touch,  and  smell,  which 
is  the  more  surprising  as  it  might  naturally  be  sup- 
posed that  by  reason  of  age  these  senses  would  have 
become  almost  useless.  The  sacred  writer  says, — 
"  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  when  Isaac  was  old,  and 
his  eyes  were  dim,  so  that  he  could  not  see,  he  called 
Esau  his  eldest  son,  and  said  unto  him,  My  son :  and 
he  said  unto  him,  Behold,  here  am  I.  And  he  said, 
Behold  now,  I  am  old,  I  know  not  the  day  of  my 
death  :  Now  therefore  take,  I  pray  thee,  thy  weapons, 
thy  quiver,  and  thy  bow,  and  go  out  to'  the  field,  and 
take  me  some  venison ;  And  make  me  savoury  meat, 
such  as  I  love,  and  bring  it  to  me,  that  I  may  eat ; 
that  my  soul  may  bless  thee  before  I  die.  And  Re- 
bekah heard  when  Isaac  spake  to  Esau  his  son.  And 
Esau  went  to  the  field  to  hunt  for  venison,  and  to 
bring  it.  And  Rebekah  spake  unto  Jacob  her  son, 
saying,  Behold,  I  heard  thy  father  speak  unto  Esau 
thy  brother,  saying,  Bring  me  venison,  and  make 
me  savoury  meat,  that  I  may  eat,  and  bless  thee 
before  the  Lord  before  my  death.  Now  therefore, 
my  son,  obey  my  voice  according  to  that  which  I 
command  thee.  Go  now  to  the  flock,  and  fetch  me 
from  thence  two  good  kids  of  the  goats ;  and  I  will 
make  them  savoury  meat  for  thy  father,  such  as 
he  loveth :  And  thou  shalt  bring  it  to  thy  father, 
that  he  may  eat,  and  that  he  may  bless  thee  before 
his  death.  And  Jacob  said  to  Rebekah  his  mother, 
Behold,  Esau  my  brother  is  a  hairy  man,  and  I  am  a 


BIOGRAPHY.  147 

smooth  man  :  My  father  peradventure  will  feel  me, 
and  I  shall  seem  to  him  as  a  deceiver;  and  I  shall 
bring  a  curse  upon  me,  and  not  a  blessing.  And  his 
mother  said  unto  him,  Upon  me  be  thy  curse,  my 
son :  only  obey  my  voice,  and  go  fetch  me  them. 
And  he  went  and  fetched,  and  brought  them  to  his 
mother :  and  his  mother  made  savoury  meat,  such  as 
his  father  loved.  And  Eebekah  took  goodly  raiment 
of  her  eldest  son  Esau,  which  were  with  her  in  the 
house,  and  put  them  upon  Jacob  her  younger  son  : 
And  she  put  the  skins  of  the  kids  of  the  goats 
upon  his  hands,  and  upon  the  smooth  of  his  neck  : 
And  she  gave  the  savoury  meat,  and  the  bread, 
which  she  had  prepared  into  the  hand  of  her  son 
Jacob.  And  he  came  unto  his  father,  and  said,  My 
father :  and  he  said,  Here  am  I  •  who  art  thou,  my 
son  ?  And  Jacob  said  unto  his  father,  I  am  Esau 
thy  firstborn ;  I  have  done  according  as  thou  badest 
me :  arise,  I  pray  thee,  sit  and  eat  of  my  venison,  that 
thy  soul  may  bless  me.  And  Isaac  said  unto  his 
son,  How  is  it  that  thou  hast  found  it  so  quickly, 
my  son  ?  And  he  said,  Because  the  Lord  thy  God 
brought  it  to  me.  And  Isaac  said  unto  Jacob,  Come 
near,  I  pray  thee,  that  I  may  feel  thee,  my  son, 
whether  thou  be  my  very  son  Esau  or  not.  And  Jacob 
went  near  unto  Isaac  his  father ;  and  he  felt  him, 
and  said,  The  voice  is  Jacob's  voice,  but  the  hands 
are  the  hands  of  Esau.  And  he  discerned  him  not, 
because  his  hands  were  hairy,  as  his  brother  Esau's 
hands  :  so  he  blessed  him.  And  he  said,  Art  thou  my 
very  son  Esau  ?  and  he  said  I  am.  And  he  said, 
Bring  it  near  to  me,  and  I  will  eat  of  my  son's  veni- 
son, that  my  soul  may  bless  thee.  And  he  brought 
it  near  to  him,  and  he  did  eat :  and  he  brought  him 
wine,  and  he  drank.  And  his  father  Isaac  said  unto 
him,  Come  near  now,  and  kiss  me,  my  son.  And  he 
came  near,  and  kissed  him  :  and  he  sine!  led  the  smell 
of  his  raiment,  and  blessed  him,  and  said,  See,  the 


148  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

smell  of  my  son  is  as  the  smell  of  a  field  which  the 
Lord  hath  blessed :  Therefore  God  give  thee  of  the 
dew  of  heaven,  and  the  fatness  of  the  earth,  and  plenty 
of  corn  and  wine:  Let  people  serve  thee,  and  nations 
bow  down  to  thee :  be  lord  over  thy  brethren,  and 
let  thy  mother's  sons  bow  down  to  thee  ;  cursed  lie 
every  one  that  curseth  thee,  and  blessed  be  he  that 
blesseth  thee.  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  soon  as  Isaac 
had  made  an  end  of  blessing  Jacob,  and  Jacob 
was  yet  scarce  gone  out  from  the  presence  of 
Isaac  his  father,  that  Esau  his  brother  came  in  from 
his  hunting.  And  he  also  had  made  savoury  meat, 
and  brought  it  unto  his  father,  and  said  unto  his 
father,  Let  my  father  arise,  'and  eat  of  his  son's 
venison,  that  thy  soul  may  bless  me.  And  Isaac  his 
father  said  unto  him,  Who  art  thou  ?  And  he  said, 
I  am  thy  son,  thy  firstborn  Esau.  And  Isaac  trem- 
bled very  exceedingly,  and  said,  Who  ?  where  is  he 
that  hath  taken  venison,  and  brought  it  me,  and  I 
have  eaten  of  all  before  thou  earnest  and  have  blessed 
him  ?  yea,  and  he  shall  be  blessed.  And  when  Esau 
heard  the  words  of  his  father,  he  cried  with  a  great 
and  exceeding  bitter  cry,  and  said  unto  his  father, 
Bless  me,  even  me  also,  0  my  father.  And  he  said, 
Thy  brother  came  with  subtilty,  and  hath  taken 
away  thy  blessing.  And  he  said,  is  not  he  rightly 
named  Jacob  ?  for  he  hath  supplanted  me  these  two 
times ;  he  took  away  my  birthright ;  and,  behold, 
now  he  hath  taken  away  my  blessing.  And  he  said, 
Hast  thou  not  reserved  a  blessing  for  me  ?  And 
Isaac  answered  and  said  unto  Esau,  Behold,  I  have 
made  him  thy  lord,  and  all  his  brethren  have  I  given, 
to  him  for  servants ;  and  with  corn  and  wine  have  I 
sustained  him ;  and  what  shall  I  do  now  unto  thee, 
my  son  ?  And  Esau  said  unto  his  father,  Hast  thou 
but  one  blessing,  my  father?  bless  me,  even  me  also,  O 
my  father.  And  Esau  lifted  up  his  voice  and  wept. 
And  Isaac,  his  father,  answered  and  said  unto  him, 


BIOGRAPHY.  149 

Behold,  thy  dwelling  shall  be  the  fatness  of  the  earth, 
and  of  the  dew  of  heaven  from  above ;  and  by  thy 
sword  shalt  thou  live,  and  shalt  serve  thy  brother ;  and 
it  shall  come  to  pass  when  thou  shalt  have  the  do- 
minion, that  thou  shalt  break  his  yoke  from  off  thy 
neck.  And  Esau  hated  Jacob  because  of  the  blessing 
wherewith  his  father  blessed  him  ;  and  Esau  said  in 
his  heart,  The  days  of  mourning  for  my  father  are 
at  hand;  then  will  I  slay  my  brother  Jacob."  (Gen. 
xxvii.  1  to  41.) 

It  is  no  part  of  the  design  of  this  work  to  dilate  on 
the  way  in  which  Rebekah  and  Jacob  were  punished 
for  their  sin,  or  to  enlarge  on  the  reason  why  God 
allowed  the  conspiracy  to  succeed,  but  we  cannot  re- 
frain from  observing  that  the  wonderful  sagacity  shown 
by  Isaac  would  appear  to  have  been  almost  sufficient 
under  ordinary  circumstances  to  have  discovered  the 
fraud,  had  not  the  omniscient  Deity  permitted  the  evil, 
and  to  the  caviller  we  can  only  say  that  God  is  his  own 
interpreter,  and  to  the  honest  prayerful  inquirer  "  lie 
will  make  it  plain." 

Samson. 

This  celebrated  champion  and  judge  of  the  Israelites 
flourished  in  the  twelfth  century  before  Christ.  He 
was  the  son  of  Manoah,  of  the  tribe  of  Dan.  Before 
his  birth  instructions  were  given  to  his  parents  by  an 
angel  of  the  Lord  that  he  should  be  specially  devoted 
to  God's  service,  by  being  brought  up  as  a  Nazarite, 
according  to  which  it  was  commanded  that :  No 
razor  should  come  on  his  head,  and  it  was  foretold 
that  he  should  "  Begin  to  deliver  Israel  out  of  the  hand 
of  the  Philistines/'  which  statement  must  have  been 
particularly  welcome  to  Manoah  and  his  wife,  as  the 
Philistines  had  then  oppressed  the  children  of  Israel 
for  a  period  of  forty  years.  Samson  soon  gave  proof 
of  great  courage  and  bodily  strength,  and  after  having 


150  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

performed  unheard-of  prodigies,  allowed  himself  to  be 
deceived  by  Delilah,  a  fair  Philistine,  who  succeeded  in 
obtaining  from  him  the  secret  of  wherein  his  great 
strength  lay.  This  circumstance  is  thus  recorded  in 
Holy  Writ : — "  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  she  pressed 
him  daily  with  her  words,  and  urged  him,  so  that  his 
soul  was  vexed  unto  death ;  That  he  told  her  all  his 
heart,  and  said  unto  her,  There  hath  not  come  a  razor 
upon  mine  head  :  for  I  have  been  a  Nazarite  unto  God 
from  my  mother's  womb  :  if  I  be  shaven,  then  my 
strength  will  go  from  me,  and  I  shall  become  weak, 
and  be  like  any  other  man.  And  when  Delilah  saw 
that  he  had  told  her  all  his  heart,  she  sent  and  called 
for  the  lords  of  the  Philistines,  saying,  '  Come  up  this 
once,  for  he  hath  shewed  me  all  his  heart/  Then  the 
lords  of  the  Philistines  came  up  unto  her,  and  brought 
money  in  their  hand.  And  she  made  him  sleep  upon 
her  knees ;  and  she  called  for  a  man,  and  she  caused 
him  to  shave  off  the  seven  locks  of  his  head,  and  she 
began  to  afflict  him,  and  his  strength  went  from  him. 
And  she  said  :  The  Philistines  be  upon  thee,  Samson. 
And  he  awoke  out  of  his  sleep,  and  said,  I  will  go  out 
as  at  other  times  before,  and  shake  myself.  And  he 
wist  not  that  the  Lord  was  departed  from  him.  But 
the  Philistines  took  him,  and  put  out  his  eyes,  and 
brought  him  down  to  Gaza,  and  bound  him  with  fetters 
of  brass;  and  he  did  grind  in  the  prison  house." 
(Judges  xvi.  16-21.)  Thus  we  see  the  physically 
strongest  man  ever  known  reduced  to  the  condition 
of  a  sightless  slave  by  loving  woman  more  than  God. 
How  long  Samson  lived  after  his  blindness  does  not 
appear,  but  the  reflections  of  one  in  his  position  have 
been  happily  rendered  by  the  great  Milton,  in  his 
'  Samson  Agonistes/  i.e.  Samson  the  actor,  or  one  who 
contends  for  the  prize  in  public  games,  which  was 
published  in  1671.  It  is  also  somewhat  singular  that 
Handel,  who  became  blind  late  in  life,  composed  the 
Oratorio  of  '  Samson '  in  1742. 


BIOGRAPHY.  151 

Milton,  himself  blind,  in  his  '  Samson  Agonistes/ 
thus  describes  the  reflections  of  Samson  under  his 
accumulated  woes : — 

Samson's  Attendant  leading  him. 
"  A  little  onward  lend  thy  guiding  hand 
To  these  dark  steps,  a  little  further  on  ; 
For  yonder  bank  hath  choice  of  sun  or  shade, 
There  I  am  wont  to  sit  when  any  chance 
Believes  rae  from  my  task  of  servile  toil, 
Daily  in  the  common  prison  else  enjoined  me, 
Where  I  a  pris'ner  chaiu'd,  scarce  freely  draw 
The  air  imp'rison'd  also,  close  and  damp, 
Unwholesome  draught ;  but  here  I  feel  amends, 
The  breath  of  Heav'n  fresh  blowing,  pure  and  sweet, 
With  day-spring  born  ;  here  leave  me  to  respire. 
This  day  a  solemn  feast  the  people  hold 
To  Daf/on  their  sea-idol,  and  forbid. 
Laborious  works,  unwillingly  this  rest 
Their  superstition  yields  me  ;  hence  with  leave 
Retiring  from  the  popular  noise,  I  seek 
This  unfrequented  place  to  find  some  ease, 
Ease  to  the  body  some,  none  to  the  mind 
From  restless  thoughts,  that  like  a  deadly  swarm 
Of  hornets  artn'd,  no  sooner  found  alone, 
But  rush  upon  me  thronging,  and  present 
Times  past,  what  once  I  was,  and  what  am  now. 
O  wherefore  was  my  birth  from  heaven  foretold 
Twice  by  an  angel ;  who  at  last  in  sight 
Of  both  my  parents  all  in  flames  ascended 
From  off  the  altar,  where  an  offering  burn'd, 
As  in  a  fiery  column  charioting 
His  God-like  presence,  and  from  some  great  act 
Or  benefit  revealed  to  Abraham's  race  ? 
Why  was  my  breeding  order'd  and  prescrib'd 
As  of  a  person  separate  to  God, 
Design' d  for  great  exploits  ;  if  I  must  die 
Betray'd,  captiv'd,  and  both  my  eyes  put  out, 
Made  of  my  enemies  the  scorn  and  gaze ; 
To  grind  in  brazen  fetters  under  task 
With  this  heaven-gifted  strength  ?    O  glorious  strength, 
Put  to  the  labour  of  a  beast,  debased 
Lower  than  bond-slave  ;  Promise  was  that  I 
Should  Israel  from  Philistian  yoke  deliver ; 
Ask  for  this  great  deliverer  now,  and  find  him 
Eyeless  in  Gaza  at  the  mill  with  slaves, 
Himself  in  b  mds  under  Philistian  yoke; 
Yet  stay,  let  me  not  rnshly  call  in  doubt 
Divine  prediction  :  what  if  all  foretold 
Had  been  fulfill' d  but  through  mine  own  default, 


152  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 


Whom  have  I  to  complain  of  but  myself  ? 

Who  this  high  gift  of  strength  committed  to  me, 

In  what  part  lodged,  how  easily  bereft  me, 

Under  the  seal  of  silence  could  not  keep, 

But  weakly  to  a  woman  must  reveal  it 

O'ercome  with  importunity  and  tears, 

O  impotence  of  mind  in  body  strong ! 

But  what  is  strength  without  a  double  share 

Of  wisdom,  vast,  unwieldy,  burdensome, 

Proudly  secure,  yet  liable  to  fall 

By  weakest  subtleties,  not  made  to  rule, 

But  to  subserve  where  wisdom  bears  command  ? 

God  when  he  gave  me  strength,  to  show  withal 

How  slight  the  gift  was,  hung  in  it  my  hair. 

But  peace,  I  must  not  quarrel  with  the  will 

Of  highest  dispensation,  which  herein 

Haply  had  ends  above  my  reach  to  know  : 

Suffices  that  to  me  strength  is  my  bane, 

And  proves  the  source  of  all  my  miseries  ; 

So  many,  and  so  huge,  that  each  apart 

Would  ask  a  life  to  wail,  but  chief  of  all, 

O  loss  of  sight,  of  thee  I  most  complain  ! 

Blind  among  enemies,  O  worse  than  chains, 

Dungeon,  or  beggary,  or  decrepit  age  ! 

Light,  the  prime  work  of  God,  to  me  is  extinct. 

And  all  her  various  objects  of  delight 

Annull'd,  which  might  in  part  my  grief  have  eased, 

Inferior  to  the  vilest  now  become 

Of  man  or  worm  ;  the  vilest  here  excel  me. 

They  creep,  yet  see,  I  dark  in  light,  expos'd 

To  daily  fraud,  contempt,  abuse  and  wrong, 

Within  doors,  or  without,  still  as  a  fool. 

In  pow'r  of  others,  never  in  my  own  ; 

Scarce  half  I  seem  to  live,  dead  more  than  half. 

O  dark,  dark,  dark,  amid  the  blaze  of  noon, 

Irrecov'rably  dark,  total  eclipse 

Without  all  hope  of  day  ! 

O  first  created  beam,  and  thou  great  Word, 

Let  there  be  light,  and  light  was  over  all ; 

Why  am  I  thus  bereav'd  thy  prime  decree  ? 

The  sun  to  me  is  dark 

And  silent  as  the  moon, 

When  she  deserts  the  night 

Hid  in  her  vacant  interlunar  cave. 

Since  light  so  necessary  is  to  life, 

And  almost  life  itself,  if  it  be  true 

That  light  is  in  the  soul, 

She  all  in  ev'ry  part ;  why  was  this  sight 

To  such  a  tender  ball  as  the  eye  confined  ? 

So  obvious  and  so  easy  to  be  quench'd, 


BIOGRAPHY.  153 

And  not  as  feeling  through  all  parts  diffus'd, 

That  she  might  look  at  will  through  every  pore  ? 

Then  had  I  not  been  thus  exiled  from  light, 

As  in  the  land  of  darkness,  jet  in  light, 

To  live  a  life  half  dead,  a  living  death. 

And  buried  ;  but,  O  yet  more  miserable  ! 

My  self  my  sepulchre,  a  moving  grave, 

Buried,  yet  not  exempt, 

By  privilege  of  death  and  burial, 

From  worst  of  other  evils,  pains  and  wrongs, 

But  made  hereby  obnoxious  more 

To  all  the  miseries  of  life, 

Life  in  captivity 

Among  inhuman  foes." 

It  is  very  probable  that  Samson  did  not  continue 
long  in  this  deplorable  condition,  but  to  one  in  his 
circumstances  days  were  years.  The  closing  events 
of  his  life  are  thus  related  : — 

"  Howbeit  the  hair  of  his  head  began  to  grow  again 
after  he  was  shaven.  Then  the  lords  of  the  Philistines 
gathered  them  together  for  to  offer  a  great  sacrifice 
unto  Dagon,  their  god,  and  to  rejoice  :  for  they  said 
Our  god  hath  delivered  Samson  our  enemy  into  our 
hand.  And  when  the  people  saw  him  :  they  praised 
their  god  for  they  said,  Our  God  hath  delivered 
into  our  hands  our  enemy,  and  the  destroyer  of  our 
country,  which  slew  many  of  us.  And  it  came  to 
pass,  when  their  hearts  were  merry,  that  they  said, 
Call  for  Samson,  that  he  may  make  us  sport.  And 
they  called  for  Samson  out  of  the  prison-house ;  and 
he  made  them  sport :  and  they  set  him  between  the 
pillars.  And  Samson  said  unto  the  lad  that  held  him 
by  the  hand,  Suffer  me  that  I  may  feel  the  pillars 
whereupon  the  house  standeth,  that  I  may  lean  upon 
them.  Now  the  house  was  full  of  men  and  women  ; 
and  all  the  lords  of  the  Philistines  were  there;  and 
there  were  upon  the  roof  about  three  thousand  men 
and  women,  that  beheld  while  Samson  made  sport. 
And  Samson  called  unto  the  Lord,  and  said,  0  Lord 
God,  remember  me,  I  pray  thee,  and  strengthen  me  I 
pray  thee,  only  this  once,  0  God,  that  I  may  be  at 


154  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

once  avenged  of  the  Philistines  for  my  two  eyes.  And 
Samson  took  hold  of  the  two  middle  pillars  upon  which 
the  house  stood,  and  on  which  it  was  borne  up,  of  the 
one  with  his  right  hand,  and  of  the  other  with  his  left. 
And  Samson  said  let  me  die  with  the  Philistines.  And 
he  bowed  himself  with  all  his  might ;  and  the  house 
fell  upon  the  lords,  and  upon  all  the  people  that  were 
therein.  So  the  dead  which  he  slew  at  his  death  were 
more  than  they  which  he  slew  in  his  life.  Then  his 
brethren  and  all  the  house  of  his  father  came  down, 
and  took  him,  and  brought  him  np,  and  buried  him 
between  Zorah  and  Eshtaol  in  the  buryingplace  of 
Manoah  his  father.  And  he  judged  Israel  twenty 
years/'  (Judges  xvi.  22-31.) 

Thus  fell  Samson  at  the  moment  of  his  greatest 
triumph,  and  it  is  well  worthy  of  notice  in  connection 
with  this  subject  that  the  greatest  number  of  persons 
ever  destroyed  at  one  time  by  a  single  individual  were 
slain  by  a  blind  man. 

Timoleon. 

Timoleon,  one  of  the  greatest  generals  and  patriots 
of  Greece,  was  born  of  noble  parents  at  the  city  of 
Corinth  about  the  year  410  B.C.  After  having  greatly 
distinguished  himself  in  his  own  country  and,  at  the 
head  of  a  small  body  of  Corinthians,  overthrown  Dio- 
nysius,  Tyrant  of  Syracuse,  in  Sicily,  and  also  per- 
formed many  other  acts  of  valour  and  wisdom, — he 
became  blind,  as  it  would  appear,  from  old  age.  Al- 
though deprived  of  sight,  such  confidence  had  the 
people  of  Syracuse  in  the  judgment  and  probity  of 
Timoleon  that  they  never  dispatched  any  business 
without  obtaining  his  opinion,  and  his  appearance  in 
public  was  always  greeted  with  rapturous  applause. 
He  died  at  Syracuse,  B.C.  337,  at  the  age  of  73,  and  was 
taken  to  the  ground  "where  stood  the  palace  and 
citadel  of  Dionysius,  before  they  were  demolished  by 
Timoleon." 


BIOGRAPHY.  155 

"  Several  thousand  men  and  women,  crowned  with 
flowers  and  dressed  in  white,  attended  on  the  solem- 
nity; whose  tears  and  lamentations  mingled  with  their 
praises  of  the  deceased,  plainly  expressed  their  love 
and  gratitude.  At  length,  the  bier  being  placed  on 
the  funeral  pile,  and  that  being  kindled  to  consume 
his  corpse,  Demetrius,  one  of  the  criers,  distinguished 
by  the  loudness  of  his  voice,  read  an  edict  to  the  follow- 
ing purpose  :  "  '  The  people  of  Syracuse  have  decreed 
to  inter  Titnoleon,  the  son  of  Timodemus,  at  the 
common  expense  of  200  minse,  and  perpetually  to 
honour  his  memory  by  games,  to  be  celebrated  by 
music,  horse-races,  and  all  sorts  of  gymnastic  exer- 
cises ;  in  honour  of  his  having  destroyed  tyrants,  over- 
thrown the  barbarians,  repeopled  many  great  cities 
that  were  before  ruinous  and  desolate,  and  his  restor- 
ing the  Sicilians  the  privilege  of  living  under  their 
own  laws/  The  people  also  erected  a  tomb  for  him  in 
the  market-place,  which  they  afterwards  surrounded 
with  a  portico,  and  joining  other  buildings  to  it,  ren- 
dered it  a  place  of  exercise  for  the  youth  of  the  city  of 
Syracuse,  giving  it  the  name  of  Timoleonteum,  and 
in  maintaining  the  form  of  civil  polity,  and  the  laws 
Timoleon  had  established,  the  Sicilians  long  enjoyed 
great  prosperity/' 

This  hero  was  so  highly  honoured  that  his  birthday 
was  kept  as  a  public  festival ;  and  after  his  death  the 
value  of  his  life  was  soon  proved  by  the  anarchy  which 
began  to  spread,  and  the  unruly  spirits  who  obtained 
the  supremacy  in  Syracuse. 

Anfidius. 

The  illustrious  person  whose  name  heads  this  brief 
account  was  probably  the  first  blind  man  who  took 
part  in  a  national  legislature.  We  find  that  he  was  a 
"Roman  senator,  and  was  remarkable  even  in  the  august 
assembly  of  which  he  was  a  member,  for  his  great 


156  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

abilities.  He  lost  his  sight  in  youth,  so  that  the 
proud  distinction  he  occupied  was  not  in  any  way  due 
to  services  rendered  to  the  State  during  the  time  that 
he  possessed  the  advantages  of  sight.  He  wrote  a 
Greek  history  which  is  spoken  of  with  approbation. 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  more  is  not  known 
of  his  character ;  but  what  is  recorded  is  sufficient  to 
place  the  name  of  Aufidius  among  those  who  have  led 
in  the  van  of  hopeful  advancement  for  the  blind. 

A  Welsh  Prince. 

Before  proceeding  to  the  consideration  of  various 
kings,  etc.  who  exercised  the  offices  of  government 
with  credit  and  ability  while  deprived  of  sight,  we  will 
narrate  an  anecdote  connected  with  the  prince  of  Cam- 
bria's ancient  race. 

Miss  Catherine  Sinclair,  in  her  sketches  and  stories 
of  "  Wales  and  the  Welsh,"  says,  "  An  ancient  prince 
of  Wales  was  long  and  cruelly  imprisoned  within  the 
walls  of  Dynevor  Castle  by  his  own  son,  a  chief  with 
an  unspellable  name,  and  indeed  the  name  of  so  odious 
a  tyrant  should  neither  be  written  nor  remembered. 
He  put  out  the  eyes  of  a  brother  who  had  excited 
jealousy  by  superior  attainments,  and  confined  him 
also  in  a  solitary  cell  within  the  castle.  This  unfor- 
tunate youth,  knowing  every  winding  and  turning  in 
the  edifice,  groped  his  way  to  the  dungeon  of  his  in- 
jured father,  and  by  an  effort  of  prodigious  strength 
broke  the  door  open,  unloosed  the  aged  prince's  chains, 
and  conducted  him  to  light  and  liberty/' 

Bela  the  Second,  King  of  Hungary,  and  his 
father,  Prince  Almos. 

Coloman,  king  of  Hungary,  after  long  intrigues  with 
his  brother  Almos,  deprived  both  him  and  his  son  Bela 
of  sight.  Coloman  died  about  the  year  1 1 14  A.D.,  and  was 
succeeded  by  his  son  Stephen  the  Second,  who  banished 


BIOGRAPHY.  157 

his  blind  uncle.  Almos,  after  his  expulsion  from 
Hungary,  took  refuge  in  Macedonia,  where  he  was 
cordially  received  by  the  Greeks  and  lived  many  years 
in  dignified  retirement,  affording  shelter  and  hospi- 
tality to  all  those  of  his  countrymen  whom  the  dis- 
pleasure of  Stephen  had  driven  from  their  native  land. 
As  Stephen  had  no  children,  he  adopted  his  cousin 
Bela  as  his  heir,  who  ascended  the  Hungarian  throne 
A.r>.  1131.  Bela,  though  blind,  proved  himself  a  man 
of  signal  ability.  He  incorporated  Bosnia  with  Hun- 
gary, and  expelled  the  Venetians  from  many  seaports 
on  the  Adriatic,  of  which  they  had  taken  possession 
during  the  late  king's  reign.  He  also  succeeded  in 
suppressing  a  combination  formed  against  him  by 
the  Poles  and  Russians,  through  the  machinations 
of  Borick,  an  illegitimate  son  of  the  late  king.  Bela 
died  in  1141,  after  a  reign  of  ten  years,  leaving 
four  sons,  Geysa,  Ladislaus,  Stephen,  and  Almos; 
the  eldest  of  whom  succeeded  him  under  the  title 
of  Geysa  the  Second.  It  is  much  to  be  regretted 
that  the  rudeness  of  the  age  in  which  King  Bela  lived, 

Prevented  fuller  details  of  his  beneficent  reign  being 
anded  down  to  us ;  enough,  however,  is  known  to 
show  that  few  monarchs  ever  excelled  him  in  political 
wisdom,  and  that  it  is  probable  that  none  of  his  contem- 
poraries could  vie  with  him  in  the  art  of  government. 
When  it  is  considered  that  he  reigned  in  the  twelfth 
century,  over  a  turbulent  people,  surrounded  by  power- 
ful and  hostile  nations,  and  that  nothing  is  recorded  of 
his  administration  but  uninterrupted  success  at  home 
and  abroad,  the  present  generation  may  well  be  thank- 
ful that  Bela  the  Second,  the  blind  king  of  Hungary, 
ever  lived  to  be  an  example  to  mankind.  From  him 
the  blind  may  learn  that  loss  of  sight  does  not  in- 
capacitate those  afflicted  by  it  for  the  attainment  of 
the  highest  positions,  and  the  accomplishment  of  the 
most  difficult  tasks ;  and  the  sighted  may  feel  confident 
that  in  giving  free  scope  to  the  blind  for  the  exercise 


158  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

of  their  faculties  in  every  walk  of  life,  and  by  stretch- 
ing out  a  helping  hand  to  those  who  enjoy  fewer 
blessings  than  themselves,  they  not  only  do  their  duty 
as  men  and  as  Christians,  but  also  aid  much  in  bringing 
useful  powers  both  of  body  and  mind  into  beneficial 
exercise  for  the  public  good ;  and  although  all  blind 
men  cannot  expect  to  be  as  great  as  King  Bela,  yet 
all  may  and  ought  to  be  usefully  employed  in  the  station 
of  society  in  which  their  lot  is  cast. 

Dandolo,  Doge  of  Venice,  and  Prince  of  Romania. 

Enrico  Dan  dolo  was  born  A.D.I  108.  He  was  descended 
from  a  patrician  family,  and  was  elected  doge  or  duke 
of  the  Venetian  republic  in  1192,  his  merits  being  such 
that  neither  his  blindness  nor  the  advanced  age  of 
eighty-four  were  considered  by  his  fellow-citizens  suf- 
ficient to  prevent  his  becoming  their  chief  magistrate 
and  the  commander  of  their  armies  and  fleets ;  and  the 
sequel  fully  justified  their  choice,  for  not  only  did  the 
blind  and  aged  doge  prevent  the  decay  of  the  State, 
but  he  it  was  who  laid  the  foundation  of  the  maritime 
greatness  which  so  long  gave  lustre  to  the  Venetian 
name. 

Dandolo  when  young  visited  Constantinople,  where, 
on  suspicion  of  being  a  spy,  he  was  arrested  by  the 
Emperor  Emanuel  Comnenus,  and  after  the  manner  of 
the  age  deprived  of  sight  by  having  a  basin  of  hot 
brass  held  before  his  eyes ;  this  punishment,  although 
it  did  not  deprive  him  of  the  power  of  perceiving 
light,  yet  rendered  him  so  far  blind  that  he  could  not 
discern  objects.  The  inhabitants  of  Constantinople, 
however,  eventually  found  to  their  cost  that  although 
blindness  might  prevent  a  man  being  a  spy,  yet  it 
could  not  hinder  him  from  being  a  great  commander 
and  legislator. 

In  the  year  1201  the  French  crusaders  applied  to  the 
Venetian  senate  for  assistance  in  their  expedition  to 


BIOGRAPHY.  159 

Palestine.  Dandolo  warmly  supported  their  petition, 
lent  them  money,  provisions,  and  ships,  and  stipulated 
in  return  that  they  should  assist  him  in  conquering  the 
town  of  Zara,  on  the  Adriatic,  which  had  revolted  from 
its  allegiance  to  the  republic. 

Dandolo  embarked  in  the  admiral's  ship,  and  having 
taken  Zara,  he  gladly  listened  to  the  prayers  of  Alexis, 
the  son  of  Isaac  Angelas,  the  deposed  and  blinded 
emperor  of  the  East,  and  determined  to  turn  the  arms 
of  the  Crusaders  against  Constantinople,  but  although 
the  chiefs  of  the  expedition  were  easily  converted  to 
the  enterprise,  it  was  not  found  an  easy  task  to  convince 
the  soldiery  that  having  undertaken  to  deliver  the  Holy 
Land  from  the  power  of  the  infidel,  it  was  right  for 
them  to  give  up  the  attempt  in  order  that  they  might 
make  war  on  their  fellow-Christians ;  but  Dandolo 
overcame  every  obstacle,  and  although  a  feud  broke 
out  between  the  French  and  Venetians,  which  caused 
much  blood  to  be  spilled,  the  admiral  arrived  at  length 
before  Constantinople  at  the  head  of  five  hundred  large 
ships  ;  and  a  proportionate  number  of  troops.  The 
entrance  to  the  harbour  was  found  to  be  barred  by  an 
immense  chain ;  but  for  this  Dandolo  was  prepared, 
for  a  Venetian  galley  with  a  pair  of  shears  of  enormous 
power  soon  divided  the  chain,  and  allowed  the  whole 
fleet  to  enter.  Constantinople  was  stormed,  and  the 
first  man  to  leap  on  shore,  and  to  plant  the  standard  of 
Venice  on  its  ramparts  was  that  very  Dandolo,  who 
seventy  or  eighty  years  before  had  been  deprived  of 
sight  in  the  same  city.  Isaac  Angelus  was  now  taken 
from  prison  and  restored  to  the  throne,  and  the  unex- 
ampled spectacle  was  exhibited  of  a  blind  general  re- 
instating a  blind  emperor  in  the  government  of  his  do- 
minions. 

On  the  death  of  Isaac  Angelus  the  imperial  crown 
was  offered  to  Dandolo,  but  with  almost  unprecedented 
humility  he  persistently  declined  it.  He  was,  however, 
prevailed  on  to  accept  the  principality  of  Romania,  in 


160  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

which  country  he  reigned  for  the  remainder  of  his  life 
under  the  title  of  "  Despot. "  This  remarkable  man  died 
in  1205  at  the  advanced  age  of  ninety-seven ;  his  name 
is  still  cherished  as  one  of  the  greatest  benefactors  of 
his  country,  and  surely  the  blind,  of  whatever  nation 
they  may  be,  will  never  forget  him. 

Isaac  Angelus,  Emperor  of  Constantinople  and 
the  East. 

Little  is  known  of  this  potentate,  and  that  little  is 
not  at  all  to  his  honour.  Many  of  the  characters  de- 
scribed in  these  pages  are  remarkable  for  transcendent 
virtue  and  ability,  but  this  prince  seems  only  noted  for 
barbarities  of  the  worst  kind,  and  we  should  certainly 
not  deem  his  life  worth  recording  if  it  were  not  de- 
sirable to  make  known  that  blindness  was  not  considered 
a  disqualification  for  an  imperial  throne  in  the  twelfth 
century. 

In  A.D.  1185,  Andronicus  Comnenus,  emperor  of 
Constantinople,  being  apprehensive  of  treachery  on 
the  part  of  Isaac  Angelus,  one  of  his  influential  sub- 
jects, sent  Hagio-Christophorites  to  put  him  to  death, 
but  Isaac  succeeded  in  killing  the  would  be-assasin. 
The  people  rose  in  arms,  seized  and  tortured  Andro- 
nicus to  death,  and  the  same  day  proclaimed  Isaac 
emperor.  It  is  remarkable  to  find  it  recorded  that 
the  fate  of  Andronicus  was  foretold  a  short  time  be- 
fore by  a  blind  astrologer  named  Seth. 

A  little  anecdote  throws  some  light  on  the  age  of 
Isaac  when  raised  to  the  imperial  purple  : — 

"  One  or  two  elderly  men  at  this  time  aspired  to  the 
Byzantine  empire  which  was  elective,  but  the  populace 
exclaimed  '  No  F  we  will  have  no  more  bald  heads,  we 
have  been  plagued  enough  by  grey  hairs/' 

The  Emperor  Isaac  was  soon  engaged  in  war  with 
the  Turks,  who  then  occupied  a  considerable  part  of 
what  had  once  been  the  Asiatic  possessions  of  the 


BIOGRAPHY.  161 

Eastern  empire.  Incredible  as  it  may  seem,  it  is  yet 
recorded  by  grave  historians,  whose  veracity  is  not 
questioned  by  so  good  an  authority  as  Andrews,  that 
hitherto  Isaac  had  only  sent  out  as  commanders  against 
the  enemies  of  the  country,  officers  who  had  lost  their 
eyes  by  the  barbarity  of  Andronicus.  These  veterans 
were  subject  to  unlucky  mistakes,  one  of  them  (John 
Cantacuzenus,  a  man  of  real  valour),  being  attacked  in 
the  night,  mounted  his  horse,  and  meaning  to  face  the; 
foe  galloped  right  away  from  them,  all  the  while  call- 
ing his  men  poltroons  and  cowards  for  not  following 
him. 

By  sea  the  imperial  fleet  sent  against  Isaac  Com- 
nenus,  who  had  usurped  the  dominion  of  Cyprus,  was 
defeated  by  Margarites,  a  celebrated  pirate. 

The  Bulgarians  having  rebelled,  the  emperor  sent 
against  them  Alexis  Branas,  one  of  his  best  generals. 
Alexis,  although  lately  pardoned  for  treason,  yet  once 
more  threw  off  his  allegiance,  claimed  the  imperial 
purple,  and  laid  siege  to  Constantinople.  He  was  how- 
ever slain  by  Conrad  of  Montserrat,  who  had  espoused 
the  cause  of  Isaac.  About  the  year  1189  the  emperor 
was  much  engaged  in  suppressing  various  rebellions, 
which  was  often  done  by  the  practice  of  the  most 
hideous  treachery.  The  correspondence  of  Isaac  with 
Frederick  Barbarossa  and  with  Richard  Coeur  de  Lion 
is  still  extant,  and  it  is  amusing  to  observe  the  terms 
of  greeting  between  these  potentates.  Isaac  only 
styles  Richard,  "  Your  nobility,"  although  Frederick 
Barbarossa  addressed  him  as  "  His  dearest  brother,  the 
illustrious  King  of  England. "  Isaac  refuses  to  Frederick 
the  title  of  emperor,  and  Frederick  calls  Isaac  '  a  dog/ 
Although  Isaac  should  have  done  everything  in  his 
power  to  assist  the  Crusaders,  yet  he  used  every  art 
that  perfidy  and  treachery  could  dictate  to  frustrate 
their  enterprise.  He  was  generally  despised  by  his 
own  subjects,  but  although  many  revolts  were  initiated 
against  him.  for  a  long  time,  none  met  with  success  ;. 


162  BLINDNESS  AND   THE    BLIND. 

each  candidate  for  the  empire,   when  captured,   was 

Sunished  by  being  deprived  of  sight.  At  length  the 
oom  of  the  tyrant  came,  and  that  too  from  a 
quarter  least  expected.  His  brother  Alexis,  to  whom 
he  had  ever  been  most  indulgent,  formed  a  plot, 
deposed  him  and  put  out  his  eyes.  A.D.  1195.  After 
eight  years'  captivity  he  was  released  from  prison,  and 
again  placed  on  the  throne  by  blind  old  Dandolo  and 
the  Crusaders.  His  misfortunes,  however,  had  not 
taught  him  wisdom ;  and  his  odious  conduct  so  exas- 
perated the  people  that  ere  a  year  had  passed,  he  was 
deposed  and  put  to  death  by  Alexis  Ducas.  Before 
ending  this  sketch,  we  must  direct  attention  to  the 
strange  connection  that  existed  between  the  Emperor 
Isaac  Angelus  and  the  blind.  The  fate  of  his  imperial 
predecessor  was  foretold  by  a  blind  astrologer.  He  gave 
the  command  of  his  armies  to  blind  generals,  he 
blinded  those  who  rebelled  against  his  authority,, 
was  himself  dethroned  and  blinded  by  his  own  brother,, 
and  was  restored  to  his  throne  by  blind  old  Dandolo. 

Theodore,  Emperor  of  Epirus. 

Although  very  little  is  known  of  the  prince  whose 
name  stands  at  the  head  of  this  article,  yet,  as  he  occu- 
pied a  throne  as  a  blind  man,  it  is  felt  that  some  notice 
of  him  in  these  pages  is  indispensable. 

When  Constantinople  was  taken  by  the  Franks  in 
1204,  various  adventurers  seized  on  portions  of  the 
Eastern  empire;  among  these  was  a  Greek  named 
Theodore,  who  possessed  himself  of  Epirus,  assumed 
the  title  of  emperor,  and  having  conquered  several 
places,  among  which  was  Thessalonica,  he  was  at  length 
defeated  and  deprived  of  sight  by  Asan  of  Bulgaria. 
Strange  as  it  may  appear,  it  is  nevertheless  recorded 
that  Asan  subsequently  released  Theodore,  restored 
him  to  his  throne,  and  married  his  daughter.  All 
that  is  farther  known  of  the  history  of  Theodore  is, 


BIOGRAPHY.  163 

that  in  1251  John  Vateces,  Emperor  of  the  East,  de- 
feated the  Epirotes,  and  obliged  them  to  surrender  the 
greater  part  of  their  dominions,  and  to  deliver  up  the 
old  and  blinded  Theodore.  The  character  given 
of  this  prince  by  his  contemporaries  is  far  from 
good,  as  whenever  his  name  is  mentioned  he  is  spoken 
of  as  the  "  treacherous  Theodore/' 

John,  King  of  Bohemia. 

John,  Count  of  Luxemburg,  became  King  of  Bohe- 
mia by  the  election  of  the  nobles  of  that  country  in 
1310.  Much  of  his  reign  was  passed  in  conflicts  with 
the  Emperor  of  Germany  and  with  the  Pope.  Some- 
times he  was  the  ally  of  the  one  and  sometimes  of  the 
other,  but  wherever  he  turned  his  arms,  victory  was 
the  result.  John  married  Margaret  Maultasche  (i.e. 
with  the  ugly  mouth),  Princess  of  Carinthia,  and  mortal 
enmity  was  created  between  him  and  Lewis,  Emperor 
of  Germany,  by  the  lessening  of  the  dower  which  the 
emperor  had  promised  to  give  with  the  princess.  Mar- 
garet procured  a  divorce  by  the  connivance  of  the 
Pope,  and  immediately  married  Lewis  the  Elector  of 
Brandenburg,  son  of  the  emperor,  which  added  fresh 
fuel  to  the  war  then  raging.  For  some  years  before 
the  separation  from  his  wife,  it  would  appear  that  John 
had  been  blind,  but  this  by  no  means  impaired  his 
judgment  or  lessened  his  success  in  war.  Various 
triumphs  attended  his  arms,  and  in  1342  Silesia  was 
made  a  province  of  Bohemia.  John,  being  in  alliance 
with  the  King  of  France,  assisted  him  in  his  wars 
with  the  English,  and  was  present  at  the  memorable 
battle  of  Cressy,  August  25,  1346.  How  gloriously  he 
fought  and  fell  is  thus  related  in  Wilson's  '  Biography 
of  the  Blind/  which  account  the  author  states  he  took 
from  Barnes's  ( Life  of  Edward  III.*  The  writer  says, 
"  When  he  understood  how  the  day  was  like  to  go, 
he  asked  of  his  captains  what  was  become  of  the  Lord 

*2 


164  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

Charles,  his  son;'  they  told  him  they  knew  not;  but 
that  they  supposed  him  somewhere  in  the  heat  of 
action.  Then  the  good  old  king,  resolving  by  no 
means  to  disgrace  his  former  victories,  or  to  cancel 
the  glory  of  his  youth  by  a  degenerate  old  age,  said 
unto  them  :  '  Gentlemen,  you  are  men,  my  companions 
and  friends  in  this  expedition,  I  only  now  desire  this 
last  piece  of  service  from  you,  that  you  will  bring  me 
forward  so  near  to  these  Englishmen  that  I  may  deal 
among  them  one  good  stroke  with  my  sword/  They 
all  said,  they  would  obey  him  to  the  death,  and  lest  by 
any  extremity  they  should  be  separated  from  him,  they 
all,  with  one  consent,  tied  the  reins  of  their  horses 
one  to  another,  and  so  attended  their  royal  master  into 
battle.  There  this  valiant  old  hero  had  his  desire, 
and  came  boldly  up  to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  and  gave 
more  than  one,  four,  or  five  good  strokes,  and  fought 
courageously,  as  also  did  all  his  lords,  and  others  about 
him;  but  they  engaged  themselves  so  far,  that  they 
were  all  slain,  and  next  day  found  dead  about  the 
body  of  their  king,  and  their  horses'  bridles  tied  to- 
gether. Then  were  the  arms  of  that  noble  king  (being 
the  ostrich  feathers  with  the  motto,  '  Ich  Dien/  signi- 
fying, I  serve,)  taken  and  worn  by  the  Prince  of 
Wales,  in  whose  memory  they  have  been  ever  since 
called  the  Prince's  arms;  being  also  from  that  time 
worn  by  his  successors,  the  Princes  of  Wales,  eldest 
sons  of  the  Kings  of  England."  Thus  died  as  noble 
and  true-hearted  a  prince  as  ever  sat  on  a  throne,  his 
last  act  denying  the  accusation  of  impuissance  falsely 
made  against  him  by  his  debased  wife ;  and  we  cannot 
forbear  expressing  the  hope  that  England  may  never 
want  a  prince  who  lacks  the  virtues  and  courage  of  the 
blind  king  who  once  owned  and  defended  with  his 
life  the  arms  and  motto  now  borne  by  our  Princes 
of  Wales. 


BIOGRAPHY.  165 

ZisJca,  the  Bohemian   General  and  Reformer. 

This  celebrated  patriot  was  born  about  the  year 
1380 ;  he  was  descended  from  one  of  the  noblest 
families  of  Bohemia,  and  received  his  education  in  the 
palace  and  camp  of  Wenceslaus,  king  of  that  coun- 
try, and  at  the  court  of  the  Emperor  of  Germany. 
His  real  name  was  John  Trocznow  or  Trosnow,  but 
having  served  in  the  Polish  and  Danish  wars,  he  lost 
an  eye  in  battle,  from  which  circumstance  he  received 
the  name  of  Ziska,  or  "the  one-eyed.?' 

"  Like  the  greater  number  of  his  countrymen,  he 
embraced  the  tenets  of  John  Huss;  and  when  that 
reformer  and  Jerome  of  Prague  were  cruelly  and  per- 
fidiously put  to  death  by  a  decree  of  the  Council  of 
Constance,  the  Bohemians  flew  to  arms  to  revenge 
their  leader's  martyrdom,  and  to  protect  themselves 
from  the  persecution  with  which  they  were  menaced 
by  ,the  bigotry  and  tyranny  of  the  Emperor  Sigis- 
mund.  They  elected  John  Ziska  their  general,  and  in 
a  few  months  he  raised  and  disciplined  a  formidable 
army,  and  organized  a  war  of  independence  through- 
out Bohemia/'  At  the  commencement  of  these 
troubles  Wenceslaus,  the  weak-minded  king,  died, 
and  the  government  of  the  country  being  an  elective- 
monarchy,  the  evils  of  religious  commotions  were  in- 
creased by  the  absence  of  social  order,  owing  to  the 
want  of  a  chief  in  the  state.  Sigismund,  the  German 
emperor  (being  lord  paramount  of  Bohemia,  and 
encouraged  by  a  bull  of  Pope  Martin  the  Fifth  to 
enter  on  a  crusade  against  the  Hussites),  assumed 
the  right  of  regulating  the  internal  affairs  of  the  coun- 
try, and  of  dictating  to  the  people  their  religious  faith. 
Zisca,  or  Ziska,  however,  soon  found  himself  at  the 
head  of  40,000  men,  and  the  emperor  having  invaded 
Bohemia,  and  laid  siege  to  Prague,  Ziska,  being  in 
possession  of  the  castle,  attacked  and  utterly  defeated 
Sigismund,  llth  July,  1420.  Negotiations  and  a  tern- 


166  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

porary  pacification  followed ;  but  the  war  soon  broke 
out  afresh  with  redoubled  violence,  each  side  being 
exasperated  by  religious  fanaticism,  and  thirst  for 
retaliation  for  deeds  of  atrocious  cruelty.  Ziska  was 
everywhere  victorious.  He  invaded  Austria  and 
Hungary,  and  lost  his  remaining  eye  at  the  siege 
of  Raab,  or  Rubi.  He  subsequently  built  the  town 
of  Tabor  in  a  strong  position  in  the  south-east  of 
Bohemia,  and  rebuilt  the  castle,  which  had  lain  in  ruins 
for  several  centuries.  The  connection  of  the  Hussites 
with  this  place  caused  many  of  them  to  be  styled 
Taborites.  The  town  still  exists,  and  has  a  population 
of  4500  souls,  with  more  than  a  usual  proportion  of 
Jews.  The  way  in  which  Ziska  became  totally  blind  is 
thus  described  in  Bohemian  history  : — "  He  had  re- 
duced the  town  of  Rahab  to  extremities,  when,  as  he 
was  viewing  a  part  of  the  works  where  he  intended  an 
assault,  an  arrow,  shot  from  the  wall,  struck  him  in 
his  remaining  eye.  The  wound  being  thought  dan- 
gerous, the  surgeons  of  the  army  proposed  his  being 
carried  to  Prague,  where  he  might  have  the  best  ad- 
vice; in  reality,  however,  they  were  afraid  of  being 
cut  to  pieces  by  the  troops,  if  he  should  die  under 
their  hands.  When  his  removal  to  the  capital  was 
resolved  on,  it  was  difficult  to  check  the  contest  among 
the  soldiers,  who  strove  for  the  honour  of  carrying 
their  wounded  general.  At  Prague  the  arrow  was 
extracted,  which,  being  barbed,  tore  out  the  eye  with 
it,  and  it  was  feared  that  the  fever  which  succeeded 
would  prove  fatal ;  his  life,  however,  though  with  diffi- 
culty, was  saved.  By  this  severe  stroke  he  was  con- 
demned to  total  darkness  for  the  remainder  of  his  life, 
but  the  sequel  proved  that,  like  Samson,  he  was 
more  destructive  to  the  enemies  of  his  country  after 
than  before  his  blindness."  The  friends  of  Ziska  were 
surprised  to  hear  him  talk,  after  his  recovery,  of  setting 
out  for  the  army,  and  did  what  was  in  their  power  to 
dissuade  him  from  that  course,  but  he  continued  reso- 


BIOGRAPHY.  167 

lute.  "  I  have  yet,"  said  he,  "  my  blood  to  shed  for 
the  liberties  of  Bohemia.  She  is  enslaved;  her  sons 
are  deprived  of  their  natural  rights,  and  are  the  victims 
of  a  system  of  spiritual  tyranny,  as  degrading  to 
the  character  of  man  as  it  is  destructive  of  every 
moral  principle,  therefore  Bohemia  must  and  shall 
be  free."  Ziska  was  so  beloved  by  the  army  that 
the  soldiers  threatened  to  lay  down  their  arms  unless 
their  general  were  restored.  In  the  meantime,  the 
Emperor  Sigismund  had  been  making  preparations 
for  war  at  Nuremberg,  where  he  assembled  the 
states  of  the  empire  in  full  convention,  opened  to 
them  his  embarrassed  circumstances,  and  entreated 
them,  for  the  sake  of  their  sovereign,  the  honour  of 
the  empire,  and  in  the  cause  of  religion,  to  take  up 
arms.  His  harangue  had  its  effect,  proper  mea- 
sures were  concerted,  the  assembly  broke  up  with 
a  unanimous  resolution  to  make  the  audacious  rebels 
feel  the  full  weight  of  the  power  of  the  empire ;  and 
that  the  blow  might  fall  more  unexpectedly,  it  was  re- 
solved to  defer  operations  until  the  end  of  the  yean 
when  it  was  hoped  that  Ziska  might  more  easily  be 
surprised,  as  great  part  of  his  troops  left  him  in  the 
winter  and  returned  again  in  spring.  The  campaign, 
-as  Ziska  imagined,  being  over,  he  was  alarmed  by 
the  report  of  these  vast  preparations,  and  soon  after 
he  received  news  of  the  march  of  two  powerful  armies 
against  him ;  one  of  which  was  composed  of  confede- 
rate Germans,  under  the  Marquis  of  Brandenburg, 
the  Archbishop  of  Mentz,  the  Count  Palatine  of  the 
Rhine,  and  other  princes  of  the  empire ;  and  the  other 
consisted  of  Hungarians  and  Silesians,  and  was  led  by 
the  emperor  himself.  The  former  army  was  to  invade 
Bohemia  on  the  west,  and  the  latter  attack  it  on  the 
east ;  they  were  to  meet  in  the  centre,  and,  as  they 
vaunted,  "  crush  this  handful  of  vexatious  sectaries  be- 
tween them."  With  such  forces  at  his  disposal  the 
emperor  was  very  sanguine  of  success,  but  those 


168  BLINDNESS  AND   THE   BLIND. 

acquainted  With  the  composition  of  armies  intended  t6 
march  in  concert,  know  the  difficulty  of  making  such 
unwieldy  bodies  execute  exactly  the  movements  traced 
out  by  prudent  generals  in  councils  of  war;  some 
unforeseen  event  generally  creates  unavoidable  diffi- 
culties, and  so  it  happened  on  this  occasion. 

Sigismund,  disappointed  in  a  contract  for  forage, 
was  obliged  to  defer  his  departure ;  he  was  likewise  re- 
tarded by  the  Austrian  and  Hungarian  nobles,  who, 
being  suddenly  called  upon,  had  not  their  equipments 
and  retainers  in  readiness  for  the  field.  The  confede- 
'rate  German  princes  had  begun  their  march,  and  were 
advanced  a  considerable  way  into  Bohemia  before  they 
heard  of  the  emperor's  disappointment.  Sigismund 
gave  them  hopes  that  he  would  presently  join  them> 
-and  advised  them  to  form  the  siege  of  Soisin ;  accord* 
ingly  they  entrenched  themselves  before  that  place  and 
began  an  attack,  for  which  they  were  not  well  pro* 
vided,  against  what  was  esteemed  one  of  the  strongest 
fortresses  in  Bohemia.  The  besieged  laughed  at  their 
vain  efforts,  and  maintained  only  the  usual  guard  of 
the  city,  while  wet  trenches,  want  of  provisions,  an 
inclement  winter,  and  above  all,  the  emperor's  long- 
-continued  delay  produced  a  spirit  of  mutiny  among 
the  besieging  forces  and  disunion  in  their  councils. 
In  this  situation  the  Germans  were  ready  to  catch  any 
alarm,  and  when  Ziska  approached  with  his  army,  the 
•very  sight  of  his  banners  floating  at  a  distance  was 
sufficient  to  cause  their  thorough  demoralization.  They 
struck  their"  tents  and  retreated  with  precipitation, 
'laying  waste  the  country  and  cursing  the  emperor's 
breach  of  faith. 

About  the  end  of  December,  a  full  month  after  the 
appointed  time,  the  emperor  began  his  march,  and 
as  he  entered  Bohemia  received  the  account  of  the 
retreat  of  the  confederates.  Sigismund,  however,  de- 
termined to  proceed  with  his  undertaking.  He  was  at 
the  head  of  an  army,  the  flower  of  which  was  com- 


BIOGRAPHY.  169 

posed  of  15,000  Hungarian  horse,  esteemed  at  that  time 
the  best  cavalry  in  Europe,  and  led  bj  a  Florentine 
officer  of  great  experience ;  the  infantry,  which  con- 
sisted of  25,000  men,  was  provided,  as  well  as  the 
cavalry,  with  everything  necessary  for  a  winter  cam- 
paign. 

This  army  spread  terror  throughout  the  east  of  Bo- 
hemia ;  wherever  Sigismund  marched,  the  magistrates 
laid  their  keys  at  his  feet,  and  were  treated  with  seve- 
rity or  favour,  according  as  they  were  supposed  to  be 
well  or  ill  affected  towards  his  cause.  But  the 
emperor's  career  was  presently  checked,  for  Ziska, 
who  had  been  pursuing  the  Germans  in  the  west,  ap- 
proached by  forced  marches  and  threw  a  damp  upon 
him  in  the  midst  of  his  success ;  he.  resolved,  however, 
to  try  his  fortune  once  more,  and  chose  his  ground  as 
well  as  he  was  able.  No  general  paid  less  regard  to 
the  circumstances  of  time  and  place  than  Ziska;  he 
seldom  desired  more  than  to  come  up  with  his  adver- 
saries, and  the  enthusiastic  fury  of  his  soldiers  did  the 
rest.  There  was  not  a  man  in  his  army  who  did  not 
face  the  enemy  with  the  .same  invincible  spirit  with 
which  the  martyr  meets  death ;  who  did  not  press  to 
be  foremost  in  that  glorious  band  of  heroes  whom  the 
Almighty  should  destine  to  the  noble  act  of  dying  for 
their  religion.  Such  were  the  troops  whom  Sigismund 
had  now  to  encounter.  On  the  13th  of  January,  1422, 
the  two  armies  met  on  a  spacious  plain  near  Kamnitz. 
Ziska  appeared  in  the  centre  of  his  front  line,  guarded, 
or  rather  conducted,  by  a  horseman  on  each  side  armed 
with  a  poleaxe.  His  troops  having  sung  a  hymn,  with 
determined  coolness  drew  their  swords  and  waited  for 
the  signal.  Ziska  stood  not  long  in  view  of  the  enemy, 
and  when  his  officers  had  informed  him  that  the  ranks 
were  well  closed,  he  waved  his  sabre  round  his  head 
which  was  the  signal  of  battle.  Historians  speak  of  the 
onset  of  Ziska' s  troops  as  a  shock  beyond  credibility  ; 
and  it  appears  to  have  been  such  on  this  occasion/  The 


170  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

imperial  infantry  scarcely  offered  any  resistance,  and 
in  the  space  of  a  few  minutes  were  disordered  be- 
yond the  possibility  of  being  rallied.  The  cavalry 
made  a  feeble  effort,  but  seeing  themselves  unsup- 
ported, wheeled  round  and  fled  on  the  spur.  Thus 
was  the  extent  of  the  plain,  as  far  as  the  eye  could 
reach,  suddenly  overspread  with  disorder,  the  pursuers 
and  the  pursued  mingling  together,  in  one  indistinct 
mass  of  waving  confusion ;  here  and  there  might  be  seen 
a  few  parties  endeavouring  to  unite,  but  they  were  bro- 
ken as  soon  as  formed.  The  routed  army  fled  towards 
the  confines  of  Moravia  ;  the  patriots,  without  intermis- 
sion, galling  their  rear.  The  river  Igla,  which  was 
then  frozen,  opposed  their  flight ;  and  here  new  dis- 
asters befell  them.  The  bridge  being  immediately 
choked  and  the  enemy  pressing  furiously  on,  many  of 
the  infantry  and  the  whole  body  of  cavalry  attempted 
the  river ;  the  ice  gave  way,  and  not  fewer  than  two 
thousand  imperialists  were  swallowed  up  in  the  water. 
Now  Ziska  sheathed  his  sword  and  returned  in  triumph 
to  Tabor,  laden  with  all  the  trophies  which  the  most 
complete  victory  could  give. 

Our  blind  patriot  was  no  less  successful  in  deal- 
ing with  false  friends  than  in  overcoming  the  hostility 
of  open  enemies.  Coribut,  a  Polish  chief,  who  had 
joined  his  standard  with  a  large  body  of  Lithuanians, 
paving  been  found  intriguing  with  the  enemy,  was 
expelled  from  Bohemia,  and  all  the  machinations  of 
Limself  and  his  partisans  were  utterly  frustrated. 

The  battle  of  Kamnitz  having  put  Ziska  in  peace- 
able possession  of  the  whole  kingdom  of  Bohemia,  he 
had  now  leisure  to  pay  more  attention  to  his  design 
of  establishing  a  Reformed  Church.  He  abolished  in 
all  places  the  ceremonies  of  the  Roman  worship;  erased 
the  Pope's  name  from  public  instruments,  and  denied 
his  supremacy.  "  Merit  alone,"  he  said,  "  should  give 
distinction  among  the  clergy  of  Bohemia;  and  they 
should  gain  the  reverence  of  the  people  by  the  sane- 


BIOGRAPHY.  171 

tity  of  their  lives,  and  not  by  their  luxurious  living." 
.Ziska  was  now  urged  by  his  friends  to  allow  himself 
to  be  proclaimed  king,  this  he  pertinaciously  refused, 
and  is  said  to  have  replied,  "While  you  find  me  of 
service  to  your  designs,  you  may  freely  command  both 
my  counsels  and  my  sword,  but  I  will  never  accept 
any  established  authority ;  on  the  contrary,  my  most 
earnest  advice  to  you  is,  when  the  perverseness  of 
your  enemies  allows  you  peace,  to  trust  yourselves  no 
longer  in  the  hands  of  kings,  but  to  form  yourselves 
into  a  republic,  which  species  of  government  only 
can  secure  your  liberties/'  After  the  battle  of  Kam- 
nitz,  Sigisrnund  made  great  preparations  for  a  final 
effort,  and  proposed  to  enter  Bohemia  with  two  sepa- 
rate armies.  With  this  view  he  placed  the  Marquis 
Misnia  at  the  head  of  a  considerable  body  of  Saxons 
and  their  allies,  who  were  to  penetrate  by  the  way  of 
Upper  Saxony ;  while  he  himself,  at  the  head  of  an- 
other army,  entered  Moravia  on  the  side  of  Hungary. 

Ziska  also  made  preparations  for  opening  the  cam- 
paign, and  sent  Procop,  in  whom  he  had  entire  con- 
fidence, to  command  in  Moravia,  hoping  that  that 
general  would  be  able  to  keep  the  emperor  employed 
till  he  himself  should  return  from  the  frontiers  of 
Saxony,  whither  he  marched  upon  the  first  notice  of 
the  enemy's  movements.  To  strike  terror  into  the 
Germans,  Ziska  ravaged  their  border  and  boldly  sat 
down  before  Ausig,  a  strong  town  situated  upon  the 
Elbe,  near  where  that  river  leaves  Bohemia.  This 
place  had  always  shown  a  particular  attachment  to 
the  emperor,  and  was  consequently  recommended 
by  him  in  strong  terms  to  the  protection  of  the 
Marquis  Misnia;  it  was  a  sensible  mortification, 
therefore,  to  that  general  to  see  an  enemy  already 
at  the  gates,  and  he  determined  to  risk  all  rather  than 
leave  it  a  prey.  Ziska,  who  carried  on  the  works  with 
his  usual  vigour,  had  brought  the  siege  to  its  last 
stage,  when  the  marquis  appeared  at  the  head  of  a 


172  BLINDNESS  AND  THE   BLIND. 

great  army,  and  offered  him  battle  ;  his  maxim  being 
never  to  decline  to  fight,  he  accepted  the  challenge, 
though  he  had  many  difficulties  to  encounter.  The 
marquis  had  a  superior  army,  and  Ziska  was  obliged 
to  thin  his  troops  by  leaving  a  large  detachment  to 
observe  what  took  place  in  the  town.  The  Saxons 
were  advantageously  posted,  having  taken  possession 
of  rising  ground,  which  secured  their  flanks.  A  strong 
wind  blew  in  the  face  of  the  Reformers,  which,  while 
it  greatly  weakened  the  flight  of  their  arrows,  added 
increased  force  to  those  of  the  enemy.  Ziska,  how- 
ever, had  little  confidence  in  missive  weapons ;  and  on 
the  present  occasion  his  whole  line,  in  the  accustomed 
manner,  with  poleaxes  and  sabres  made  an  impetuous 
attack  upon  the  enemy,  but  the  Saxons  receiving  the 
assault  in  good  order,  stood  firm,  and  gave  the  Bohe- 
mians a  severe  check.  This  was  a  reception  wholly 
unknown  to  the  Reformers,  who  had  ever  been  used 
to  bear  down  all  before  them.  In  these  new  circum- 
stances they  were  at  a  loss  how  to  act,  and  retreated 
some  paces,  as  if  astonished  at  the  novelty  of  their 
position.  This  critical  moment  the  Saxons  should 
have  seized,  for  had  they  moved  forward  at  the  in- 
stant, it  is  probable  the  patriots  would  never  have  re- 
covered from  their  surprise ;  but  instead  of  making  a 
general  charge,  they  stood  motionless,  as  though  they 
had  done  enough  in  not  suffering  themselves  to  be 
beaten.  Ziska,  as  if  inspired,  had  a  complete  idea  of 
the  state  of  affairs,  and  being  conducted  to  the  front 
line,  which  stood  unbroken,  he  cried  out  as  he  rode 
along,  "  I  thank  you,  my  fellow-soldiers,  for  all  your 
past  services;  if  you  have  done  your  utmost,  let  us 
.retire."  This  noble  rebuke  stung  them  to  the  soul ; 
every  veteran  gnashed  his  teeth  with  indignation, 
grasped  his  sword  and  pressed  forward,  closing  hand 
to  hand  with  the  enemy,  in  the  true  temper  of  deter- 
mined courage.  The  combat,  thus  renewed,  soon  be- 
came unequal;  for  some  time  the  Saxons  maintained 


BIOGRAPHY*:  173 

a  feeble  fight,  but  four  of  tlie  principal  officers  being 
cut  to  pieces  at  the  head  of  their  battalions,  the 
whole  army  gave  way  in  .every  part  and  fled.  A 
rout  and  massacre  succeeded;  the  carnage  was  ter- 
rible, not  fewer  than  9000  Saxons  being  left  dead  on 
the  field. 

From  this  scene  of  blood  Ziska  recalled  his  troops  to 
new  fields  of  glory ;  "  We  must  sleep  to-night/'  cried 
he,  "  within  the  walls  of  Ausig."'  Thither  the  trium- 
phant army  carried  the  news  of  their  victory.  The 
Bohemians  would  grant  no  conditions;  the  governor 
was  allowed  half  an  hour  to  deliberate  whether  he 
would  surrender  at  discretion  or  take  the  conse- 
quences; he  chose  the  safer  measure,  and  the  Refor- 
mers were  quietly  quartered  in  Ausig  before  the  close 
of  the  evening.  The  next  day  Ziska  ordered  the 
town  to  be  dismantled,  that  it  might  no  longer  be  a 
receptacle  for  his  enemies;  and  broke  down  'the 
stately  bridge  over  the  Elbe,  to  cut  off  as  much  as 
possible  all  communication  with  Saxony.  These  great 
events  consecrated  the  22nd  of  April,  for  many  years, 
in  Bohemia.  Having  settled  everything  to  his  entire 
satisfaction  in  the  north-west,  he  returned  with  his 
victorious  army  to  the  assistance  of  Procop. 

The  news  of  Sigismund's  retreat  met  Ziska  near 
Prague  ;  and  as  the  Bohemian  troops  had  made  forced 
marches  from  Ausig,  which  produced  great  fatigue,  he 
thought  it  proper  to  give  them  a  few  days'  rest,  and 
encamped  therefore  within  three  leagues  of  Prague.  It 
could  have  been  wished  that  the  career  of  this  celebrated 
blind  general  had  been  unsullied  by  anything  approach- 
ing a  crime,  but  truth  obliges  us  to  state  that  Ziska' s 
ferocity  was  equal  to  his  military  skill,  and  that  his  fol- 
lowers spread  the  most  fearful  and  indiscriminate 
ravages  wherever  they  marched;  Great  allowance  must 
however  be  made  for  the  age  in  which  he  lived,  and  for 
the  peculiar  circumstances  by  which  he  was  surrounded. 
The  emperor  at  length  earnestly  wished  for  peace,  and 


174  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

a  treaty  most  humiliating  to  German  pride  was  by 
Ziska' s  influence  concluded  with  the  Bohemians,  but 
the  renowned  leader  was  not  permitted  to  enjoy  the 
fruits  of  his  labours.  He  was  on  his  way  to  meet  the 
emperor,  and  passing  through  a  part  of  the  country  in 
which  the  plague  was  then  raging,  he  was  attacked 
by  the  malady,  and  died  October  11,  1425,  being  only 
forty-five  years  old.  Thus  ended  the  earthly  career  of 
the  greatest  general  Bohemia  ever  produced.  His 
history  on  the  whole  is  worthy  of  admiration,  and  his 
character  and  genius  have  ever  won  the  most  unbounded 
praise  from  all  classes  of  mankind.  His  country  soon 
had  reason  to  mourn  his  loss.  Fierce  dissensions  broke 
out  among  the  once  invincible  Hussites,  and  all  that 
Ziska  fought  to  maintain  was  swallowed  up,  and  as 
far  as  Bohemia  was  concerned  irrevocably  lost.  It  is 
singular  to  observe  how  time  changes  the  opinions  of 
men.  At  the  battle  of  Ausig  Protestant  Bohemians 
fought  Catholic  Saxons  in  defence  of  their  religion; 
now  the  descendants  of  Ziska  and  the  Hussites  are 
Catholic,  and  the  Saxons  Protestant ;  but  although 
Ziska' s  countrymen  have  not  proved  true  to  the  cause 
for  which  the  blind  general  so  often  led  them  to  victory, 
yet  his  example  must  ever  be  an  incentive  to  determined 
action  to  those  who  have  to  cope  with  difficulties  which 
seem  to  require  superhuman  abilities  to  overcome.  The 
remains  of  this  great  man  were  deposited  in  the  church 
at  Craslow,  in  Bohemia,  where  a  monument  was  erected 
to  his  memory,  with  an  inscription  to  this  effect : — 
"  Here  lies  John  Zisca,  who,  having  defended  his 
country  against  the  encroachments  of  Papal  tyranny, 
rests  in  this  hallowed  place,  in  despite  of  the  Pope." 
There  is  a  legend  connected  with  Ziska,  which,  although 
not  amply  authenticated,  we  think  it  better  to  insert 
here,  viz. :  It  is  said  that  "he  ordered  that  his  body 
should  be  left  a  prey  to  the  birds  and  wild  beasts,  alleg- 
ing that  they  were  more  worthy  devourers  than  the 
worms  of  the  earth,  and  that  a  drum  should  be  made  of 


BIOGRAPHY.  1 75 

his  skin,  he  being  persuaded  that  the  enemy  would  fly 
as  soon  as  they  heard  the  sound.  It  is  added  that  the 
Hussites  executed  his  will  in  the  latter  respect,  and 
that  the  news  of  this  circumstance  made  such  an  im- 
pression on  the  disturbed  imaginations  of  the  German 
Papists,  that  in  many  battles  they  actually  fled  at  the 
beat  of  the  drum  with  the  utmost  precipitation,  leaving; 
their  baggage  and  artillery  behind  them." 


Basilius,  or  Basil  III.,  Czar  or  Prince  of  Moscow. 

This  prince  began  to  reign  over  that  part  of  Russia, 
of  which  Moscow  was  then  the  capital,  in  1425.  His 
long  reign  of  thirty-seven  years  was  almost  entirely 
occupied  in  wars  with  the  other  princes  of  Muscovy, 
and  in  efforts  to  throw  off  the  yoke  of  the  Tartars, 
who  then  held  Russia  in  subjection.  About  the  year- 
1450  he  was  defeated  and  blinded  by  Demetrius,  a 
Russian  prince,  in  revenge  for  the  cruelties  practised 
on  his  brother  Kossoi,  whose  eyes  had  been  put  out  by 
Basilius.  Demetrius,  however,  triumphed  but  a  short 
time,  for  the  people  soon  overcame  his  forces,  and  re- 
stored Basilius,  now  blind,  to  the  throne.  Throughout 
the  remaining  twenty -two  years  of  his  reign  a  remark- 
able degree  of  success  attended  his  administration.  His 
implacable  enemy  Demetrius  having  taken  refuge  in 
the  semi-independent  city  of  Novogorod,  soon  after  died 
of  poison,  by  whose  agency  administered  is  not  stated, 
but  it  is  certain  that  Basilius  imposed  a  fine  on  the 
citizens  of  Novogorod  of  ten  thousand  roubles,  in 
punishment  for  the  asylum  they  had  afforded  to  Deme- 
trius. All  that  is  further  known  of  Basilius  is  that  he 
died  in  1462,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son  Ivan,  or 
John  Bascolowitz,  the  first  prince  who  threw  off  effec- 
tually the  Tartar  yoke. 


176  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

Shah  Allum,  the  Great  Mogul. 

The  subject  of  this  article,  Prince  Ali  Goher,  suc- 
ceeded to  the  throne  of  the  Mogul  Empire  about  the 
jear  1761,  and  took  the  title  of  the  Emperor  Shah 
Allum  the  Second.  He  was  the  son  of  the  Emperor 
Allumghir,  who  had  been  assassinated  a  few  years  be- 
fore by  a  rebel  general.  At  that  time  very  little  was 
left  to  the  Mogul  dynasty,  except  the  city  of  Delhi,  and 
a  small  surrounding  territory,  Hindostan  being  divided 
among  many  independent  princes,  who  were  constantly 
at  war  with  each  other.  Shah  Allum  was  proclaimed 
emperor  at  Patna,  Delhi  being  then  in  the  hands  of  his 
enemies,  and  after  residing  some  years  at  Allahabad 
under  the  protection  of  the  British,  who  were  then 
rapidly  increasing  their  power  in  India,  he  raised  a 
small  force,  and  succeeded  in  taking  possession  of  his 
capital,  then  in  a  most  ruinous  condition.  His  vizier 
Gholam.  Kadir  was  continually  plotting  against  him, 
and  although  after  an  unsuccessful  revolt  he  was  freely 
pardoned,  yet  on  his  treacherously  getting  possession 
of  the  person  of  his  sovereign,  with  his  own  hand  he 
put  out  his  eyes  with  a  poniard.  Shah  Allum,  how- 
ever, although  blind,  was  soon  restored  to  his  throne 
by  the  aid  of  the  Mahratta  princes,  and  the  inhuman 
Gholam  Kadir  was  put  to  a  painful  death. 

The  Shah  remained  more  or  less  dependent  on  the 
Mahratta  princes  until  1803,  when  Delhi  was  taken  by 
the  English,  who  allowed  him  a  pension,  and  permitted 
him  to  retain  the  nominal  title  of  emperor.  After 
eighteen  years  of  blindness,  and  a  reign  of  forty-four 
years,  Shah  Allum  died  in  1806,  and  with  him  the 
empire  of  the  house  of  Timur,  commonly  known  as  the 
Mogul  Empire,  may  be  considered  as  having  terminated, 
and  the  British  East  India  Company,  after  half  a  cen- 
tury of  wars  and  conquests,  succeeded  to  the  splendid 
inheritance.  Shah  Allum,  although  not  a  great  prince, 
was  still  far  from  being  an  indifferent  poet,  as  may  be 


BIOGKAPHY.  177 

seen  by  the  following  extracts,  as  translated  from  the 
Persian,  and  published  in  the  '  St.  James's  Magazine ' 
for  August,  1866.  Bewailing  his  misfortunes  he 


"  O'er  India's  fair  extensive  plain, 
Auspicious  dawn'd  ray  early  reign  ; 
Too  soon  the  flattering  prospect  fled  ; 
Now  sorrow  shrouds  this  aged  head. 

****** 

Within  the  harem's  scented  bowers 
No  more  I'll  pass  the  blissful  hours ; 
No  more  shall  hear  the  tuneful  throng 
Harmonious  raise  th'  enraptured  song. 
In  the  lone  prison's  dreary  round 
The  night-owl  wakes  her  mournful  sound ; 
No  courtiers  crowd  the  emblazoned  hall, 
No  ready  menials  wait  my  call ; 
My  plaints  in  lingering  echoes  die, 
And  the  arched  domes  responsive  sigh. 
Here  murder  stalks,  suspicion  reigns, 
Mysterious  silence  chills  my  veins. 

Has  British  justice,  Britain's  boast, 
With  Hastings  left  Hindostan's  coast  ? 
Are  favours  past  remembered  not, 
A  ceded  empire — all  forgot  ? 
Forgot  the  day  when  first  they  came, 
And  humbly  urged  the  stranger's  claim  ; 
Poor  wanderers  from  a  foreign  shore, 
By  peaceful  trade  to  increase  their  store  ? 
****** 

Immersed  in  anguish  deep, 
Unheard  I  mourn,  unpitied  weep ; 
No  gleam  of  hope,  with  cheering  ray> 
Gilds  my  expiring  streak  of  day ; 
Its  parting  beams  pale  lustre  shed, 
The  shadowy  veil  of  night  is  spread. 
Come,  awful  death !  haU,  kindred  gloom ! 
For  me  no  terrors  shroud  the  tomb. 
In  death — all  worldly  sorrows  end ; 
In  death — the  friendless  find  a  friend  ; 
In  death — the  wearied  seek  repose, 
And  life — release  from  human  woes. 
At  the  glad  summons,  pleased,  I'll  fly, 
For  who  so  friendless,  fall'n,  as  I  ? 
Eevengeful  war  can  ne'er  invade 
The  inviolable  realms  of  shade ; 


178  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 


Ambition  there  can  ne'er  intrude, 
Nor  malice,  nor  ingratitude  ; 
There  mortal  foes'  contention  cease, 
Forget  their  feuds,  and  sleep  in  peace. 
Freed  from  his  chains,  the  toil-worn  slave 
Escapes  from  bondage  to  the  grave ; 
There,  there  I'll  mock  the  tyrant's  power, 
And  triumph  in  my  latest  hour." 


Pfeffel)  Privy  Councillor,  and  Instructor  in  the  Art 
of  War. 

Dr.  Guillie,  Director  of  the  Paris  Institution  for  the 
Blind,  writing  at  the  commencement  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  gives  the  following  account  of  the  subject  of 
this  notice : — 

"  Pfeffel  of  Colmar,  who  lost  his  sight  when  very 
young,  in  consequence  of  a  violent  ophthalmia,  has 
composed  some  very  pretty  poems,  principally  fables  (6 
vols.  8vo,  Colmar,  1791),  some  of  which  have  been 
translated  into  French  by  Degerands.  He  was  privy 
councillor  to  the  Margrave  of  Baden;  and  he  established 
at  Colmar  a  military  school,  where  persons  of  the  first 
families  sent  their  children.  The  Prince  of  Schwartzen- 
berg  and  the  Prince  of  Eisemberg,  who  were  brought 
up  there,  are  proud  of  having  had  this  learned  blind 
man  for  their  master. 

1 '  M.  Heilman,  now  a  pensioner  of  the  Quinze-Vingts, 
was  also  his  pupil,  and  does  him  the  greatest  honour. 
M.  Pfeffel  died  at  Colmar  in  1809." 


POETS,  PHILOSOPHERS,  AND  MEN  OF  LETTERS. 
Homer. 

Whoever  requires  proof  that  blindness  does  not 
disqualify  its  victims  from  the  exercise  of  their  full 
mental  powers,  may  assuredly  find  it  in  the  fact  that 
the  two  greatest  poets  the  world  has  ever  seen  lacked 


BIOGRAPHY.  1 79 

the  use  of  their  visual  organs ;  and  as  though  it  were 
to  be  made  clear  that  this  circumstance  was  inde- 
pendent alike  of  time  and  place,  these  two  great  in- 
tellectual lights  were  not  permitted  to  flourish  in  any 
one  age  or  place,  but  the  one  appeared  at  such  an  early 
period  of  Grecian  history,  that  even  as  to  precedence 
of  date  he  is  justly  called  the  '  Father  of  Song ' ;  and 
the  other  performed -his  inimitable  task  when  it  might 
fairly  have  been  thought  that  the  lustre  of  English 
verse  had  reached  its  greatest  brilliancy.  Yes,  if  the 
blind  were  challenged  to  name  any  department  in 
which  their  class  had  excelled,  they  need  only  utter  the 
names  of  Homer  and  Milton  to  fill  their  challengers 
with  dismay.  The  subject  of  this  notice  was  a  strolling 
blind  ministrel,  who  begged  his  bread  from  city  to  city, 
and  obtained  the  name  '  Homer/  or  '  blind  man/  as  an 
epithet  of  contempt.  The  date  and  place  of  his  birth 
have  given  rise  to  much  disputation ;  but  the  balance  of 
•evidence  goes  to  prove  that  he  was  born  of  Greek  pa- 
rents, about  900  years  B.C.,  at  the  city  of  Smyrna,  in 
Asia  Minor.  Seven  cities  disputed  the  glory  of  having 
given  him  birth,  which  are  enumerated  in  the  following 
distich  : — 

"  Smyrna,  Rhodes,  Colophon,  Salamis,  Chois,  Argos,  Athense  : 
Orbis  de  patria  certat,  Homere,  tuae." 

Or  as  a  modern  poet  has  complained  : — 

"  Seven  mighty  towns  contend  for  Homer  dead, 
Through  which  the  living  Homer  begged  his  bread." — Pope. 


"We  have  110  authentic  particulars  of  Homer's  life. 
The  most  regular  account  is  that  which  goes  under  the 
name  of  Herodotus,  and  which  is  usually  printed  with 
his  history ;  and  although  it  is  said  to  be  spurious,  yet  it 
is  undoubtedly  ancient,  as  it  was  made  use  of  by  Strabc, 
and  therefore  exhibits  the  idea  which  the  later  Greeks, 
and  the  Romans,  in  the  age  of  Augustus,  entertained  of 
Homer,  and  as  we  have  no  better,  we  must  content  our- 


180  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

selves  with  it,  and  this  account  is  therefore  now  in- 
serted here.  "  Menalippus,  a  native  of  Magnesia,  is 
said  to  have  settled  at  Cumae,  where  he  married  the 
daughter  of  a  citizen,  called  Homyres,  and  had  by  her 
a  daughter,  Critheis.  The  father  and  mother  dying, 
the  young  woman  was  left  under  the  tuition  of  Cleonax, 
her  father's  friend,  by  whom  she  was  seduced,  and  who,, 
on  her  proving  with  child,  sent  her  to  Smyrna,  which 
was  then  building,  to  conceal  the  misfortune.  This, 
was  eighteen  years  after  the  foundation  of  Cuma3,  and 
about  168  after  the  destruction  of  Troy.  Critheis  was 
here  delivered  of  Homer,  whom  she  called  Melesigenes, 
because  he  was  born  on  the  banks  of  that  river.  Her 
good  conduct  afterwards  induced  Phemius,  a  school- 
master, to  marry  her,  and  adopt  her  son.  After  the- 
death  of  Phemius  and  Critheis,  Homer  succeeded  to 
his  father-in-law's  school,  until  a  shipmaster,  named 
Mentes,  who  was  a  man  of  learning,  persuaded  him  to 
travel  with  him.  This  brought  him  to  Egypt,  whence 
he  took  into  Greece  the  names  of  the  Egyptian  gods, 
the  chief  ceremonies  of  their  worship,  and  a  more  im- 
proved knowledge  of  the  arts.  In  addition  to  Egypt 
he  visited  other  parts  of  Africa,  and  also  Spain ;  in  his 
return  from  whence  he  touched  at  Ithaca,  where  he  was 
first  troubled  with  a  disease  in  his  eyes.  Being  re- 
commended to  Mentor,  one  of  the  chief  men  of  Ithaca, 
he  was  by  him  informed  of  many  things  relating  to 
Ulysses,  which  he  afterwards  inserted  in  his  Odyssey. 
After  much  time  spent  in  visiting  the  coasts  of  the 
Peloponnesus  and  the  islands,  our  poet  arrived  at 
Colophon,  where  he  lost  his  sight." 

"  High  on  the  first,  the  mighty  Homer  shone ; 
Eternal  adamant  composed  his  throne  ; 
Father  of  verse,  in  holy  fillets  drest, 
His  silvery  beard  waved  gently  o'er  his  breast ; 
Though  blind,  a  boldness  in  his  looks  appears  ; 
In  years  he  seemed,  but  not  impaired  by  years." — Pope. 

The  misfortune  of  blindness  made  Homer  resolve  to 


BIOGRAPHY.  181 

return  to  Smyrna,  where  he  finished  the  Iliad.  Some 
time  after,  the  ill-posture  of  his  affairs  obliged  him  to 
go  to  Cumas,  where  he  hoped  to  have  found  some  re- 
lief. Here  his  poems  were  highly  applauded ;  but 
when  he  proposed  to  the  inhabitants  to  immortalize 
their  town,  if  they  would  allow  him  a  salary,  he  was 
answered,  "  that  there  would  be  no  end  of  maintaining 
all  the  "O/uiypoi,  or  "  blind  men, "  and  he  hence  got 
the  name  of  Homer.  He  afterwards  wandered  through 
several  places  reciting  his  poems,  and  followed  by 
crowds  of  boys.  Being  at  Phoceea,  a  schoolmaster, 
named  Thestorides,  offered  to  maintain  him,  provided 
he  would  suffer  him  to  transcribe  his  verses,  to  which  he 
agreed  from  necessity.  The  schoolmaster  then  went  to 
Chios,  where  he  acquired  great  wealth  by  Homer's 
poems,  while  the  poet  himself  could  scarcely  get  bread 
by  reciting  them.  Homer  on  this  proceeded  to  Chios, 
and  Thestorides,  hearing  of  his  arrival,  fled  before  him. 
Here  he  opened  a  school  for  poetry,  married,  and  had 
two  daughters.  Homer  died  at  Chios,  and  it  is  said 
was  buried  on  the  sea-shore. 

The  principal  works  ascribed  to  this  extraordinary 
blind  man,  are  the  '  Iliad '  and  '  Odyssey.'  The  Batra- 
chomyomachia,  or  battle  of  the  frogs  and  mice,  is  re- 
jected by  almost  all  modern  critics,  as  a  parody  incom- 
patible with  the  simplicity  of  the  Homeric  age.  Of  his 
hymns,  some  are  acknowledged  by  Luciau  and  Pausa- 
nias  ;  others  are  undoubtedly  spurious.  Of  the  Iliad 
and  Odyssey,  the  editions  are  very  numerous.  The 
"best  are  those  of  Barnes,  Clarke,  and  Heyne.  The 
leading  English  translations  are  those  of  Pope  and 
Cowper,  in  rhyme  and  blank  verse,  and  that  by  the 
Earl  of  Derby,  1864. 

It  has.  been  well  said  that  the  misfortunes  of  Troy 
furnish  the  two  most  perfect  epic  poems  in  the  world, 
written  by  the  greatest  poet  that  has  ever  lived. 
Among  the  thousands  of  volumes  consumed  in  the  fire 
of  Constantinople,  A.D.  477,  were  the  works  of  Homer, 


132  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

said  to  have  been  written  in  golden  letters,  on  the 
intestines  of  a  dragon,  120  feet  in  length.  The  writings 
of  this  poet  are  supposed  by  some  to  have  done  great 
injury  to  mankind,  by  inspiring  them  with  the  love  of 
military  glory;  but  such  persons  forget  the  fearful  wars 
that  raged  before  Homer's  day,  in  Assyria,  Egypt, 
Palestine,  and  every  country  of  the  world.  What 
Homer  did  was  to  ennoble  just  wars,  and  surely  this 
was  not  a  crime.  Alexander  the  Great  was  said  to> 
have  slept  with  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey  constantly  under 
his  pillow,  with  his  sword,  and  he  carefully  deposited 
the  Iliad  in  one  of  the  richest  and  most  valuable  cas- 
kets taken  from  Darius,  observing  that  "  the  most  per- 
fect work  of  human  genius  ought  to  be  preserved  in  a 
box,  the  most  valuable  and  precious  in  the  world ; " 
and  on  viewing  the  tomb  of  Achilles,  he  expressed  re- 
gret that  "  he  should  not  be  so  fortunate  as  that  hero, 
in  having  a  Homer  to  record  his  deeds."  The  Iliad 
and  the  Odyssey  are  each  divided  into  twenty-four 
books,  being  the  number  of  letters  in  the  Greek  alpha- 
bet. The  Iliad  has  been  compared  to  the  mid-day,  and 
the  Odyssey  to  the  setting  sun.  The  poems  of  Homer 
were  so  universally  admired  in  ancient  times,  that  every 
man  of  learning  could  repeat  with  facility  any  passage 
in  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey.  They  are  evidently  the 
compositions  of  a  traveller  who  examined  with  the 
most  critical  accuracy  whatever  deserved  notice.  Mo- 
dern explorers  are  astonished  to  find  the  different 
scenes  which  the  pen  of  Homer  described  about  3000 
years  ago,  still  existing  in  the  same  unvaried  form, 
and  the  sailor  who  steers  his  course  along  the  ^gean 
Sea,  beholds  all  the  promontories  and  rocks  which 
appeared  to  Nestor  and  Menelaus,  when  they  returned 
victorious  from  the  Trojan  war.  The  ancients  had 
such  veneration  for  Homer,'  that  they  raised  temples. 
and  altars  in  his  honour,  and  worshipped  him  as  a 
god.  The  inhabitants  of  Chios  celebrated  festivals 
every  fifth  year  in  his  memory,  and  medals  were? 


BIOGRAPHY.  183 

struck,  which  represented  him  sitting  on  a  throne, 
holding  his  Iliad  and  Odyssey.  The  view  that  Homer 
took  of  his  affliction  of  blindness  may  be  gathered  from 
the  following  lines,  which  occur  in  his  description  of 
the  Bard  of  King  Alcinous,  in  which  he  is  supposed  to 
be  describing  himself. 

"  Him  dearly  loved  the  Muse,  and  shed 
Both  good  and  evil  on  his  head. 
Took  from  his  eyes  their  earthly  sight, 
And  filled  his  soul  with  her  own  heavenly  light." 

Again,  in  a  poem  attributed  to  Homer,  in  addressing 
the  maids  of  Delos,  the  translator  makes  him  speak 
thus  : 

"  Virgins  farewell — and  O,  remember  me, 
Hereafter,  when  some  wanderer  from  the  sea, 
Some  hapless  stranger  shall  your  isle  explore, 
And  ask  you  maids,  of  all  the  bards  you  boast, 
Who  sings  the  sweetest  and  delights  you  most — 
O,  answer  all,  a  blind  old  man  and  poor, 
Sweetest  he  sings,  and  dwells  on  Chios'  rocky  shore." 

In  the  Odyssey,  Homer  thus  speaks  : 

"  Dear  to  the  Muse,  who  gave  his  days  to  flow 
With  mighty  blessings,  mixed  with  mighty  woe  ; 
With  clouds  of  darkness  quenched  his  visual  ray, 
But  gave  him  power  to  raise  the  lofty  lay." 

The  rich  variety  which  pervades  Homer's  writings 
may  be  gathered  from  the  following  fact.  There  are 
twenty  descriptions  of  various  effects  of  wind  upon 
water,  all  different,  and  all  without  one  fictitious  or  ex- 
aggerated circumstance.  Homer  is  sometimes  called 
Mseouides,  after  the  name  of  his  reputed  father.  No- 
thing was  ever  comparable  to  the  clearness  and  majesty 
of  Homer's  style ;  to  the  sublimity  of  his  thoughts,  or 
to  the  strength  and  sweetness  of  his  verses.  All  his 
images  are  striking,  his  descriptions  just  and  exact,  the 
passions  are  so  well  expressed,  and  nature  is  so  justly 
and  finely  painted,  that  he  gives  to  everything  motion, 


184  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

life  and  action.  But  he  more  particularly  excels  in 
invention,  and  in  the  different  characters  of  his  heroes, 
which  are  so  varied,  that  they  affect  us  in  an  inexpres- 
sible manner.  In  a  word,  the  more  Homer  is  read  by 
a  person  of  good  taste,  the  more  he  is  admired.  Nor 
are  his  works  to  be  esteemed  merely  as  entertaining 
poems,  or  as  the  monuments  of  a  sublime  and  varied 
genius.  He  was  in  general  so  accurate  with  respect  to 
costume,  that  he  seldom  mentioned  persons,  or  things, 
that  we  may  not  conclude  to  have  been  known  during 
the  times  of  which  he  writes;  and  it  was  Pope's  opinion, 
that  his  account  of  people,  princes,  and  countries,  was 
purely  historical,  founded  on  the  real  transactions  of 
those  times,  and  his  works  form  by  far  the  most  valu- 
able part  of  history  and  geography  left  us  concerning 
the  state  of  Greece  in  that  early  period.  His  geo- 
graphical divisions  of  that  country  were  thought  so 
exact,  that  we  are  told  of  many  controversies  concern- 
ing the  boundaries  of  Grecian  cities  which  were  de- 
cided upon  the  authority  of  his  poems,  and  no  writer 
of  ancient  or  modern  times  has  been  able  in  conception 
and  portraiture  of  character  to  compete  with  him. 


Diodorus. 

Passing  by  several  cases  of  doubtful  authenticity, 
such  as  that  of  Democritus,  who  is  said  to  have  put  out 
his  own  eyes  to  enable  him  to  study  the  better,  the 
next  person  we  come  to  in  the  order  of  time  that  may 
be  said  to  belong  to  this  part  of  the  classification  we 
have  chosen,  is  Diodorus,  the  Roman  philosopher,  who 
flourished  about  one  hundred  years  before  Christ.  He 
was  the  preceptor  of  Cicero,  and  that  distinguished 
orator  states  that  he  applied  with  such  assiduity  to 
study  after  he  lost  his  sight,  and  taught  geometry  with 
so  much  clearness,  that  his  pupils  had  not  the  slightest 
difficulty  in  understanding  the  way  to  trace  the  various 


BIOGRAPHY.  185 

figures,  however  complicated  they  might  be.  It  is  some- 
what singular  that  there  was  another  blind. philosopher 
of  this  name,  who  is  usually  mentioned  as  Diodorus  the 
Stoic.  It  is  stated  that  he  was  at  once  a  philosopher, 
geometrician,  and  a  musician,  and  that,  although  he 
had  been  blind  from  birth,  his  instructions  in  geometry 
were  so  complete  that  he  left  nothing  unexplained  to 
his  numerous  pupils. 


Didymus  of  Alexandria  and  Eusobius  the  Asiatic. 

Didymus,  the  famous  academician  and  theologian, 
was  born  at  Alexandria  about  A.D.  308.  He  became 
blind  at  the  age  of  five  years,  when  he  had  just  learned 
to  read.  But  notwithstanding  his  heavy  bereavement 
he  made  great  progress  in  learning,  and  became 
thoroughly  conversant  with  grammar,  arithmetic, 
music,  logic,  rhetoric,  geometry,  and  astronomy,  which 
seven  sciences  were  in  those  days  considered  to  com- 
prehend the  whole  cycle  of  human  learning.  To  such 
an  extent  did  his  proficiency  advance  that  he  even- 
tually became  the  principal  of  the  Catechetical  School 
of  Alexandria,  and  he  had  the  satisfaction  of  number- 
ing among  his  pupils  such  distinguished  men  as  St. 
Jerome,  Kufinus,  Paladins,  and  Isidore.  He  delivered 
lectures  which  were  much  applauded  by  his  auditors, 
who  expressed  their  belief  that  blindness  increased 
rather  than  lessened  his  abilities.  But  Didymus 
seems  never  to  have  been  thoroughly  reconciled  to 
his  state,  for  we  find  that  when  St.  Anthony,  the 
celebrated  hermit,  asked  him  if  he  grieved  that  he 
was  blind,  he  replied  that  he  certainly  did,  and, 
although  frequently  pressed  on  the  matter,  he  could 
never  be  induced  to  make  any  other  answer.  This  is 
much  to  be  regretted,  as  the  first  duty  of  the  Christian 
is  to  acquiesce  cheerfully  and  thankfully  in  whatever  is 


186  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

unmistakably  the  will  of  his  heavenly  Father.  The 
sharp  reply  of  St.  Anthony  was  not,  however,  calcu- 
lated to  soothe  the  philosopher's  regret.  "  I  am  asto- 
nished," said  he,  "that  so  judicious  a  man  as  you 
should  regret  a  thing,  which  is  common  to  the  most 
contemptible  animals  as  well  as  to  man."  Didymus 
was  the  author  of  a  valuable  work  on  the  Holy  Spirit, 
a  Latin  translation  of  which  was  made  by  his  pupil,  St. 
Jerome.  This  production  has  come  down  to  us,  as 
also  his  bookw  against  the  Manicheans  ('  Lib.  adv.  Mani- 
chaeos/  Gr.  et  Lat.) ;  his  work  on  the  Trinity  ('  De 
Trinitate  Lib.  HI/),  and  his  Compendious  Exposition 
of  the  Canonical  Epistles  ('Brevis  Enarratio  in  Epist. 
Canonicas').  Several  of  his  writings  are  known  to 
have  been  lost,  including  a  Commentary  on  the  Bible. 
He  died  about  the  year  A.D.  395,  at  the  age  of  eighty- 
seven  ;  and  after  his  death  his  books  were  condemned 
by  the  Council  of  Lateran  on  account  of  their  leaning 
to  the  doctrines  of  Origen.  Notwithstanding  this  con- 
demnation, the  learned  and  pious  Joseph  Milner  says 
that,  as  far  as  appears,  Didymus  continued  always 
sound,  and  humble,  and  holy  in  Christian  doctrine.  The- 
subject  of  this  article  must  not  be  confounded  with 
another  Didymus,  'of  Alexandria/  who  lived  about 
two  centuries  earlier.  He  possessed  the  full  use  of 
his  eyes,  and  wrote,  it  is  said,  three  thousand  books, 
of  which  it  has  been  remarked  "  that  it  is  well  for  the 
world  they  are  all  lost."  The  fourth  century  produced 
a  blind  Christian  philosopher  named  Eusebius.  To  dis- 
tinguish him  from  others  of  the  same  name  he  is  always 
denominated  '  the  Asiatic/  He  became  blind  at  five 
years  of  age,  acquired  vast  knowledge  and  erudition, 
and  taught  with  great  ability  and  success.  It  is  much  to 
be  regretted  that  these  very  scanty  particulars  are  all 
that  is  known  about  him,  as  fuller  details  of  the  life 
of  such  a  man  could  not  fail  to  be  of  the  highest 
interest. 


BIOGRAPHY.  187 


Sir  John  Gowcr,  the  founder  of  the  Sutherland  family . 

Omitting  a  detailed  notice  of  Ossian,  whom  we  think 
there  is  sufficient  evidence  to  class  among  fabuloua 
characters,  we  come  to  our  own  English  poet,  Sir  John 
Gower. 

This  celebrated  scholar  was  born  about  the  year 
1322,  and  we  are  informed  by  Andrews  that  he  was  a 
man  of  family  and  reading,  that  he  was  bred  to  the 
study  of  the  law,  and  that  his  works  exhibit  more 
learning  than  genius.  He  wrote  in  Latin,  French, 
and  English,  and  his  style  was  smooth  and  intelligible. 
He  received  great  encouragement  from  the  unfortunate 
Richard  II.,  by  whose  request  he  wrote  his  principal 
book,  entitled  (  Confessio  Amantis/  which  is  the  only 
work  of  Gower's  that  has  appeared  in  print.  It  is 
said  that  the  king  meeting  the  poet  accidentally  on 
the  Thames,  desired  him  "  to  book  some  new  thing." 
Sir  John  was  the  contemporary  and  friend  of  Chaucer, 
but  was  much  inferior  to  him  in  ability.  On  the  ac- 
cession of  Henry  IV.  he  extended  his  patronage 
to  Gower,  who  in  return  loaded  him  with  fulsome 
flattery.  This  is  much  to  be  regretted,  as  the  great 
favours  he  had  received  from  Richard  should  have  at 
least  kept  him  from  fawning  on  his  murderer. 
Gower  lived  to  a  great  age,  and  became  blind 
three  years  before  his  death,  which  took  place  in 
1402, — when  he  had  reached  his  eightieth  year.  After 
his  blindness  he  republished  some  of  his  works,  and 
among  other  pieces  wrote  some  Latin  verses  deploring 
his  loss  of  sight.  He  was  buried  at  the  church  of  St. 
Mary  Overy,  i.  e.  St.  Saviour's,  Southwark,  to  which 
edifice  he  had  liberally  contributed  during  his  life,  and 
which  still  contains  his  tomb,  adorned  with  three  books, 
as  indicative  of  the  three  principal  works  of  the  tenant 
that  sleeps  below.  During  a  thunder  storm,  which  broke 
over  London  at  an  early,  hour  on  July  26th,  1870,  the 


188  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

lightning  struck  the  pinnacle  of  St.  Saviour's  Church, 
which  burst  open  and  flew  into  ten  thousand  fragments 
of  various  sizes  from  a  ton  to  a  few  pounds'  weight. 
One  of  the  immense  pieces  fell  through  the  elegant 
roof  of  the  transept  and  came  down  with  a  tremendous 
crash  at  the  foot  of  the  famous  monument  of  our  blind 
poet,  which  barely  escaped  destruction. 

James  I.  of  Scotland,  in  his  writings,  calls  Gower 
and  Chaucer  the  two  fatlaers  of  English  poetry.  Some 
idea  of  Gower' s  style,  and  of  the  versification  common 
at  the  end  of  the  thirteenth  century,  may  be  gathered 
from  the  following  specimen  of  his  compositions  : — A 
princess  was  cured  of  hard-heartedness  to  her  admirers 
by  a  vision.  She  saw  many  beautiful  damsels,  richly 
dressed  and  superbly  mounted,  ride  along,  followed 
by  a  lovely  creature  all  in  rags,  on  a  lean  worn-out 
hackney,  loaded  with  halters  and  most  wretchedly 
accoutred,  except  as  to  her  bridle,  which  was  studded 
with  gold  and  jewels.  "What  means  this?"  said  the 
princess.  "  Those  fine  ladies,"  said  the  ragged  one, 
"  have  listened  to  love,  but  as  for  me — 


"  For  I*  whilome  no  lore  had, 
My  horse  is  feeble  now  and  bad, 
And  altof  torne  is  my  arraie  ; 
And  every  year,  this  fresh  Male, 
These  lustie  ladies  ride  aboute, 
And  I  must  nedis  sewj  thir  route, 
In  this  manner,  as  ye  nowe  see, 
And  trusse  thir  halters  forth,  with  mee  ; 
And  I  am  but  their  horse-knave,"  ||  etc. 

The  fine  bridle  had  been  allowed  to  her,  because  she 
had  been  one  fortnight  thoroughly  in  love. 

"  Xow  have  ye  herde  all  mine  answere, 
To  Godde,  Madam,  I  you  betake, 


Because  I  formerly.        f  quite.         +  follow.         §  groom. 


BIOGEAPHY.  180 

And  warneth  all,  for  mie  sake, 
Of  love,  that  there  be  not  iclell, 
And  bid  hem  thinke  of  my  bridell, 
And  with  that  worde  all  sodenly 
She  passeth,  as  it  were  a  skie,* 
All  clean  out  of  the  ladies'  sight,"  etc. 

Henry  tlte  Minstrel,  or  Blind  Harry. 

The  biography  that  last  claimed  our  attention  shows 
how  a  man  possessing  true  courage  may  contend 
against  affliction,  when  it  overtakes  him  in  advanced 
life ;  for  Sir  John  Gower,  although  of  the  age  of 
seventy-seven  when  he  lost  his  sight,  yet  continued 
his  ordinary  avocation  of  writing  and  publishing  poems. 
The  character  now  before  us,  on  the  other  hand,  points- 
out  how  difficulties,  usually  deemed  insurmountable, 
may  be  overcome,  even  when  the  sufferer  has  to  begin 
his  existence  surrounded  by  their  baneful  influence. 
Henry  the  Minstrel  was  a  native  of  Scotland,  and  was 
born  blind  about  A.D.  1361.  Nothing  is  known  of  his 
parentage  or  surname,  but  by  some  means  he  managed 
to  become  acquainted  with  Latin,  French,  and  the 
principal  sciences  of  the  day.  He  travelled  the  country 
as  a  mendicant,  rehearsing  poems  of  his  own  composi- 
tion, which  were  so  highly  appreciated  that  the  noble 
and  wealthy  often  liberally  supplied  his  pecuniary 
wants.  He  lived  about  one  hundred  years  after  his 
country's  famous  hero,  "Wallace,  and  his  principal  poem 
recounts  the  achievements  of  that  commander. 

-  This  composition  was  popular  in  Scotland  for  a  long- 
time, but  at  length  fell  into  neglect.  It  was,  however, 
rescued  from  obscurity  by  the  Earl  of  Buchan,  toward 
the  end  of  the  last  century.  It  was  originally  written 
in  the  Scottish  dialect,  but  is  now  published  in  a 
modernized  form.  Dempster  thus  speaks  of  this  re- 
markable person  : — "  Henry  was  a  man  of  singular 
happy  genius.  He  was  indeed  another  Homer.  He 

*  A  shade. 


190  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

did  great  honour  to  his  native  country,  and  raised 
it  above  what  was  common  to  it  in  his  age."  The 
following  may  be  given  as  a  specimen  of  Blind  Harry's 
works,  which  is  taken  from  the  Battle  of  Biggar : — 

"  Now  Biggar's  plains  with  armed  men  are  crown'd, 
And  shining  lances  glitter  all  around ; 
The  sounding  horn  and  clarion  all  conspire 
To  raise  the  soldier's  breast,  and  kindle  up  his  fire. 
So  Triton,  when,  at  Neptune's  high  command, 
He  heaves  the  swelling  surge  above  the  land ; 
"When,  with  full  breath,  he  bids  the  tempest  roar, 
And  dash  the  sounding  billows  to  the  shore ; 
His  angry  waves  the  wrinkled  seas  deform, 
They  rise,  they  roar,  and  blacken  to  the  storm, 
Each  eager  soldier  seized  his  ready  shield, 
Drew  the  fierce  blade,  and  strode  along  the  field. 
The  blackening  wings  extend  from  left  to  right, 
Condense  the  war  and  gather  to  the  fight ! 
Now  rose  the  battle, — there  the  warriors  tend, 
A  thousand  deaths  on  thousand  wings  ascend  ; 
Swords,  spears,  and  shields,  in  mixed  confusion  glow, 
The  field  is  swept,  and  lessens  at  each  blow. 
Wallace's  helm,  distinguished  from  afar, 
Tempests  the  field,  and  floats  amid  the  war 
Imperious  death  attends  upon  the  sword, 
And  certain  conquest  waits  her  destined  Lord ! 
Fierce  in  another  quarter,  Kent  employs 
The  wrathful  spear,  nor  fewer  foes  destroys. 
Where'er  he  Conquering  turns  recedes  the  foe, 
And  thicken'd  troops  fly  open  to  his  blow  ; 
His  bounding  courser  thund'ring  o'er  the  plain 
Bears  his  fierce,  rapid  Lord  o'er  hills  of  slain  ! 
Scarce  can  the  weak  retreating  Scots  withstand 
The  mighty  sweep  of  the  invader's  hand. 
Wallace  beheld  his  fainting  squadron  yield, 
And  various  slaughter  spread  along  the  field  ; 
Furious  he  hastes  and  heaves  his  orbed  shield, 
Kesolv'd  in  arms  to  meet  his  enemy  ; 
Before  his  spear  they  run,  they  rush,  they  fly  ! 
And  now  in  equal  battle  met  the  foes, — 
Ijong  lasts  the  combat,  and  resound  their  blows  ; 
Their  dreadful  falchions  brandishing  on  high, 
In  wary  circles  heighten  to  the  sky. 
Now  all  is  death  and  wounds  ; — the  crimson  plain 
Floats  round  in  blood,  and  groans  beneath  its  slain  ; 
Promiscuous  crowds  one  common  ruin  share, 
And  death  alone  employs  the  wasteful  war ; 


BIOGRAPHY.  191 

They  trembling  fly,  by  conquering  Scots  opprest, 
And  the  broad  ranks  of  battle  lie  defaced  ; 
A  false  usurper  sinks  in  every  foe, 
And  liberty  returns  with  every  blow !" 

There  is  no  record  of  the  date  or  place  of  Henry's 
death,  but  his  life  is  far  from  being  uninstructive. 
With  the  difficulties  of  poverty  and  blindness  he  had 
to  contend  from  his  very  infancy,  and  that  too  in  a 
rude  age  and  country  where  strength  of  muscle  was 
king ;  but  Henry  had  a  soul  capable  of  detecting  and 
appreciating  virtue,  and  he  felt  that  if  he  could  not  be 
useful  to  his  fellow-men  in  the  field  he  still  had  it  in 
his  power  to  make  known  what  others  had  done,  and 
thus  to  stimulate  those  around  him  to  dare  and  die  in 
the  cause  of  right.  The  memory  of  Henry  the  Min- 
strel should  be  especially  dear  to  the  blind  of  these 
countries,  as  his  difficulties  and  successes  are  at  once 
an  example  worthy  of  imitation,  and  an  evidence  that 
blindness  from  birth,  deep  poverty,  and  an  obscure 
origin,  do  not  of  themselves  deprive  any  one  of  being 
useful  in  his  day  and  generation.  Burton  in  his 
History  of  Scotland  says  : — "  Among  the  many  who 
liave  chronicled  Wallace's  fame,  Henry,  the  Blind  Min- 
strel, is  pre-eminent  in  having  devoted  his  whole  force 
to  the  glorifying  of  his  hero ;"  and  Andrews,  in  his 
History  of  England,  calls  Henry  "  the  Northern 
Homer/' 

Ludovico  Scapinclli,  the  Italian  Philologist  and  Poet. 

The  distinguished  man  of  letters  whose  name  heads 
this  article  was  born  at  Modena,  in  1585,  and  was 
either  blind  from  birth,  or  became  so  when  quite  an 
infant.  He  early  exhibited  great  intellectual  powers, 
and,  having  attracted  the  notice  of  his  sovereign,  the 
Duke  of  Modena,  that  prince  entertained  such  a  high 
opinion  of  his  abilities  that  he  entrusted  him  with  the 
education  of  his  own  son,  which  is  the  more  remark- 


192  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

able  as  the  blind  tutor  was  then  under  twenty-four 
years  of  age.  So  well,  indeed,  was  the  Duke  satisfied 
with  Scapinelli's  instruction  of  the  royal  prince,  that 
he  procured  his  election  as  one  of  the  professors  of 
eloquence  at  the  University  of  Bologna,  where  it  is 
said  he  took  the  degree  of  Doctor.  In  1617,  being 
annoyed  at  something  that  took  place  at  Bologna,  he- 
left  that  city,  and  successively  filled  the  Chair  of  Lite- 
rature at  the  Universities  of  Modena  and  Pisa.  Ill- 
health,  however,  obliged  him,  in  1621,  to  retire  from 
active  pursuits,  but  in  privacy  he  devoted  himself  so 
ardently  to  study  that  the  fame  of  his  acquirements 
spread  throughout  Italy,  and  in  1628  he  was  recalled 
to  Bologna,  and  installed  as  the  chief  professor  of 
eloquence.  This  crowning  event  of  his  life  Scapinelli 
was  not  permitted  long  to  enjoy,  as  he  died  suddenly 
at  Modena,  Jan.  3,  1634,  when  only  forty-eight  years 
old. 

Living  in  an  age  when  purity  of  style  was  lost  by 
the  abuse  of  reason,  Scapinelli  yet  had  sufficient 
strength  of  mind  and  love  of  truth  to  avoid  the  gross 
falsehoods  and  the  greater  number  of  the  ingenious 
subtleties  of  the  so-called  learned  men  of  his  day,  and, 
if  he  did  not  succeed  in  entirely  avoiding  their  errors, 
it  was  because  it  is  almost  impossible  to  remain  alto- 
gether uninfluenced  by  the  times  and  circumstances 
in  which  we  live. 

The  edition  of  his  works  published  at  Parma  under 
the  title  of '  Opere  del  Lettore  Lodovico  Scapinelli/  2 
vols.  8vo,  contains  several  Italian  and  Latin  poems, 
and  also  some  pieces  in  prose,  and  fifteen  dissertations 
on  Titus  Livius.  He  also  wrote  Commentaries  on  the 
works  of  Horace,  Justin,  and  Seneca,  and  translated 
part  of  Virgil's  JEneid,  but  these  have  not  appeared 
in  print. 

Speaking  of  Scapinelli,  a  judicious  author  says,  "All 
his  works  are  distinguished,  not  only  by  their  learning, 
but  by  a  purity  and  elegance  of  diction,  rare  at  the 


BIOGRAPHY.  193 

time  when  lie  flourished.     He  was  accounted,  indeed, 
one  of  the  most  finished  scholars  of  that  day." 

Field  Marshal  Count  de  Pagan. 

Blaise  Fra^ois  de  Pagan  was  descended  from  a 
Neapolitan  family,  and  was  born  at  Avignon,  in  France, 
in  1604.  He  entered  the  army  when  twelve  or  fourteen 
years  old,  and  rose  to  great  distinction.  When  quite 
young  he  lost  the  sight  of  one  eye  by  a  musket 
ball,  at  the  siege  of  Montaubon,  1621,  and  became 
totally  blind  at  the  age  of  thirty-eight,  from  a  distem- 
per that  attacked  him  in  Portugal,  where  he  had  been 
sent  with  the  rank  of  Marshal  to  command  the  French 
troops.  In  the  case  of  Pagan  it  happened,  as  in  that 
of  many  others,  that  his  usefulnesss  was  greater  after 
his  affliction  than  before  the  calamity  of  blindness  came 
upon  him  :  and  to  this  day  the  Count  is  known  far 
more  widely  for  what  he  did  when  blind,  than  for  his 
achievements  while  he  had  sight.  On  being  cut  off 
from  participation  in  the  dangers  of  the  field,  Pagan 
(who  had  ever  been  fond  of  mathematics)  devoted  him- 
self with  all  the  force  of  a  great  mind  to  the  investiga- 
tion of  the  laws  of  attack  and  defence.  These  labours  re- 
sulted, three  years  after,  in  the  publication  of  '  A  Trea- 
tise on  the  Art  of  Fortification/  which  work  entitles 
him  to  be  considered  as  the  founder  of  that  science. 

In  1651  appeared  his  "Geometrical  Theorems/' 
which  show  that  he  possessed  a  perfect  mastery  of 
every  branch  of  the  mathematics,  and  four  years  later 
he  printed  a  translation  from  the  Spanish  of  an  account 
of  the  river  Amazon,  by  the  Jesuit  Father  De  Ranez, 
accompanied  by  a  chart,  which,  it  is  said,  was  drawn 
by  Pagan  himself.  Critics  aver  that  this  chart  con- 
tains many  defects ;  but  the  same  remark  applies  to 
nearly  all  similar  productions  of  that  period,  still,  that 
the  Count  should  have  accomplished  such  a  task,  how- 
ever imperfectly,  in  his  sightless  condition,  is  truly  a, 
matter  of  surprise.  o 


194  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

In  1657  he  published  the  theory  of  the  planets, 
cleared  from  the  multiplicity  of  eccentric  circles  and 
epicycles  which  astronomers  had  invented  in  their  en- 
deavours to  explain  the  motions  of  the  heavenly  bodies. 
This  work  proved  him  to  be  as  great  an  astronomer  as 
he  had  previously  shown  himself  an  engineer. 

In  the  next  year  were  issued  his  Astronomical 
Tables,  which,  although  prepared  by  a  blind  man,  are 
pronounced  on  all  hands  to  be  very  succinct  and  clear. 
His  great  knowledge,  however,  did  not  save  him  from 
the  special  error  of  his  day,  viz.  a  belief  in  astrology, 
and  of  course  what  he  wrote  on  this  subject  was  like 
everything  else  of  the  kind,  mere  trash. 

Pagan  was  never  married,  but  his  character  is  de- 
scribed as  having  been  most  estimable.  He  was  be- 
loved by  all  who  knew  him,  and  his  house  was  the 
rendezvous  of  the  bravest,  the  most  learned,  and  the 
best  of  the  court  and  city  of  Paris.  He  died  at  the 
age  of  sixty-one,  in  1665. 

Before  leaving  this  brief  notice  of  Pagan's  life,  we 
cannot  forbear  adding  that  it  was  he  who  first  enunci- 
ated the  proposition  of  vertical  firing,  which  is  at 
present  one  of  the  leading  features  of  the  art  of  war. 
This  principle,  although  neglected  for  two  centuries,  is 
now  undoubtedly  the  most  potent  in  the  science  of  at- 
tack ;  without  it  casemates,  with  an  indefinite  supply 
of  food,  would  be  impregnable,  but  by  its  aid  access  is 
gained  to  the  strongest  and  most  subtilely  devised 
fortress,  and  we  have  the  satisfaction  of  claiming  this 
discovery  as  having  been  effected  by  a  blind  man. 

John  Milton. 

This  greatest  of  English  poets,  and  probably  the 
greatest  the  world  ever  saw,  was  descended  from  a 
family,  whose  seat  was  at  Milton,  near  Thame,  in  Ox- 
fordshire. 

His  father,  also  named  John,  being  disinherited  on 


BIOGRAPHY.  195 

account  of  his  becoming  a  Protestant,  was  obliged, 
although  educated  at  Christ  Church,  Oxford,  to  enter 
into  trade  for  his  support.  The  profession  selected 
was  that  of  a  scrivener,  or  a  drawer  up  of  agreements, 
which  for  some  time  he  carried  on  in  Bread  Street, 
Cheapside,  London,  then  one  of  the  most  respectable 
thoroughfares,  his  place  of  business  being  designated 
by  the  sign  of  a  spread  eagle,  in  accordance  with  a 
custom  then  prevalent  of  having  houses  of  business  of 
all  kinds  indicated  by  signs.  The  spread-eagle  may 
have  been  in  this  instance  taken  from  the  arms  of  the 
Milton  family,  or  it  may  have  been  common  to  all  the 
members  of  the  Scriveners'  Company;  but  however 
this  may  be,  the  subject  of  these  pages  was  born  at  the 
Spread-eagle,  Bread  Street,  Cheapside,  London,  on  Fri- 
day, December  9,  1608,  at  six  in  the  morning,  in  the 
fifth  year  of  the  reign  of  James  the  First, — the  birth  of 
Milton  occurring  six  years  after  the  death  of  Shake- 
speare, and  in  the  register  of  the  church  of  Allhallows, 
Bread  Street,  is  the  following  entry  :  "  The  20th  daye 
of  December,  1608,  was  baptized  John  the  Sonne  of 
John  Mylton,  Scrivener." 

It  is  matter  of  congratulation  that  the  registers  were 
saved  when  the  church  fell  a  prey  to  the  great  fire. 
The  present  edifice,  like  so  many  other  city  churches, 
was  erected  from  a  design  of  Sir  Christopher  Wren. 
By  the  Watling  Street  door  of  the  church  of  Allhallows 
may  still  be  seen  on  the  wall  this  inscription  in  me- 
mory of  Milton,  viz. : — 

"  Three  poets,  in  three  distant  ages  born, 
Greece,  Italy,  and  England  did  adorn. 
The  first  in  loftiness  of  thought  snrpass'd, 
The  next  in  majesty ;  in  both  the  last. 
The  force  of  Nature  could  no  further  go, — 
To  make  a  third  she  joined  the  former  two." 

"  Jonx  MILTON 

\f  as  born  in  Bread  Street  the  9th  day  of  December,  1608,  and  was  bap- 
tized in  the  parish  church  of  Allhallows,  Bread  Street,  on  Tuesday,  the 
20th  of  December,  1608." 

02 


196  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

The  poetical  lines  commencing  the  above  quotation- 
are  by  Dryden,  the  contemporary  of  Milton,  and  they 
are  of  great  value  as  showing  the  estimate  formed  of 
him  in  his  lifetime  by  the  writer,  who  was  poet-laureate 
to  Charles  the  Second.  It  is  worthy  of  remark  that 
Milton's  father  possessed  great  musical  abilities,  as 
may  be  seen  by  the  specimens  of  his  compositions 
given  in  Burney's  '  History  of  Music/  and  in  the 
works  of  Sir  John  Hawkins,  and  also  by  the  psalm- 
tune  named  "York,"  now  so  commonly  used  in  English 
churches  and  chapels.  The  maiden  name  of  the  poet's 
mother  was  long  supposed  to  have  been  either  Sarah 
Bradshaw  or  Sarah  Caston,  and  it  was  imagined  that 
she  was  of  Welsh  descent ;  but  a  paragraph  appeared 
in  a  newspaper  in  November,  1868,  stating  that  T.  L. 
Chester  had  discovered  among  the  marriage  allega- 
tions in  the  Bishop  of  London's  Registry  that  the 
mother  of  John  Milton  was  Margaret,  the  daughter  of 
Paul  Jeffrey,  of  the  parish  of  St.  Swithin's.  Milton's 
mother  was  a  woman  possessing  a  very  estimable  cha- 
racter, and  was  much  beloved  by  the  poor  of  her  neigh- 
bourhood. Mr.  and  Mrs.  Milton  had  several  chil- 
dren, but  only  three  reached  maturity;  these  were: 
Anne,  who  became  the  wife  of  Edward  Philips,  of  the 
Crown  Office,  London ;  John,  the  poet,  and  Christo- 
pher, who  joined  the  Romish  Church  some  time  before 
his  death.  The  parents  seem  to  have  formed  high 
hopes  of  the  capacity  of  their  son  John,  even  from 
his  tenderest  years,  and  a  portrait  of  the  boy,  which 
is  still  extant,  fully  justifies  their  predilection.  No 
trouble  or  expense  was  spared  in  the  training  of 
the  child;  all  that  motherly  affection  and  fatherly 
judgment  and  generosity  could  do  was  brought  to  the 
cultivation  of  his  head  and  heart. 

The  parents  themselves  superintended  his  earliest 
studies,  and  at  the  proper  time  a  tutor  was  obtained, 
who  was  taken  to  live  with  the  family,  in  order  that 
he  might  devote  his  whole  attention  to  his  young 


BIOGRAPHY.  197 

charge.  With  what  care  this  preceptor  was  selected, 
and  with  what  faithful  assiduity  he  performed  his  task, 
is  abundantly  shown  by  the  history  of  his  illustrious 
pupil.  This  tutor's  name  was  Thomas  Young,  said  to  be 
•a  Scotchman.  In  after  years  Milton  treated  him  with 
the  greatest  respect,  and  spoke  of  his  care  of  him  as 
equalling  that  of  a  father.  Mr.  Young  some  time  after 
became  a  Puritan  minister,  and  was  chaplain  to  the 
English  merchants  at  Hamburg  ;  it  is  also  said 
that  he  was  Master  of  Jesus  College,  Cambridge, 
during  Cromwell's  protectorate.  It  was  not  long  be- 
fore Milton's  poetic  bias  showed  itself,  for  we  have  it 
on  his  brother's  authority  that  he  wrote  good  verses 
in  his  eleventh  year ;  and  perhaps  we  may  here  be 
allowed  to  gaze  on  a  pleasing  picture,  which  a  saga- 
cious writer  has  prepared  for  us.  He  says :  "  We 
have  now  before  us  a  boy  of  about  twelve  years  old, 
with  auburn  hair,  clear  brown  eyes,  a  bright  com- 
plexion, and  a  small,  almost  girlish  mouth.  He  is 
sitting  at  a  table,  and  seems  engaged  in  putting  some 
passages  of  English  poetry  (perhaps  some  lines  from 
the  '  Fairy  Queen')  into  Latin  verse.  His  forehead  is 
slightly  contracted,  as  though  he  were  resolved  to  be 
very  earnest  about  his  work;  but  he  is  glancing  a 
little  wistfully  towards  the  volume  of  poetry  at  his 
side.  Opposite  sits  a  man  who  is  dressed  as  a  clergy- 
man, and  has  a  gentle,  intellectual  face ;  he  has  looked 
up  from  the  large  folio  open  before  him,  to  smile  en- 
couragingly at  the  boy — sympathizing,  no  doubt,  with 
those  longing  glances  at  the  volume  of  poetry;  for  his 
face  is  not  that  of  a  narrow-minded  pedant  who  thinks 
Greek  and  Latin  the  only  languages  in  which  the 
rarest  gems  of  literature  can  be  set.  These  are  John 
Milton  and  his  tutor  Young."  The  lovers  of  anti- 
quarian research  cannot  now  have  the  pleasure  of 
visiting  the  house  of  Milton's  birth,  as  it  was  involved 
in  the  wide-spread  ruin  of  the  great  fire  of  1666.  It 
is,  however,  supposed  that  it  occupied  the  site  where 


198  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

now  stand  the  third  and  fourth  houses  on  the  left  from 
Cheapside. 

At  the  age  of  twelve  Milton  entered  St.  Paul's 
School,  then  under  the  management  of  Alexander  Gill, 
with  whom  was  associated  his  son  as  usher ;  here  he 
applied  himself  with  great  assiduity  to  his  studies,  and 
was  soon  distinguished  for  his  success  in  the  ancient 
languages.  While,  however,  he  followed  scholastic 
studies  by  day,  he  applied  himself  with  no  less  ardour 
to  the  reading  of  poetical  and  other  works  by  night. 
This  eagerness  in  the  pursuit  of  information  laid  tha 
foundation  of  the  vast  amount  of  knowledge  for  which 
he  was  distinguished  in  after-life,  but  at  the  same 
time  it  also,  even  at  that  early  period,  caused  him  to 
suffer  from  weak  eyes  and  frequent  attacks  of  head- 
ache. While  here  he  made  the  acquaintance  of 
Charles  Diodati,  the  son  of  an  Italian  Protestant.  This 
connection  ripened  into  sincere  friendship,  which 
not  even  the  separation  of  many  years  could  lessen. 
On  leaving  St.  Paul's  School,  Diodati  proceeded  to 
Oxford  University,  but  his  correspondence  and  meet- 
ings with  Milton  were  as  frequent  as  circumstances 
would  permit.  Milton  also  made  the  friendship  of  the 
younger  Gill,  but  separation  and  other  causes  in  a  few 
years  produced  an  estrangement.  When  at  the  age  of 
fifteen,  our  poet  wrote  paraphrases  of  the  114th  and 
the  136th  psalms.  These  compositions  are  still  ex- 
tant, and  are  spoken  of  with  applause.  We  must  not 
omit  to  state  that  at  this  time  Milton  alleviated  the 
severity  of  his  more  arduous  studies  by  the  cultivation 
of  his  musical  abilities,  which  were  considered  above 
mediocrity.  When  sixteen  years  old  he  quitted  St. 
Paul's  School,  which  by  the  way  was  a  different  build- 
ing from  that  which  now  occupies  its  place,  and  in  the 
same  year  he  was  entered  at  Christ's  College,  Cam- 
bridge, and  placed  under  the  care  of  a  tutor  named 
Chappell,  and  it  may  give  some  idea  of  contempora- 
neous events  to  notice  that  Charles  the  First  ascended! 


BIOGRAPHY.  199 

the  throne  the  year  following  Milton's  entrance  at 
Cambridge.  The  success  of  our  student  at  the  Uni- 
versity was  no  less  marked  than  it  had  hitherto  been ; 
he  was  distinguished  for  the  excellence  of  his  Latin 
poems,  and  the  elegies  and  epitaphs  written  at  this 
time  have  induced  the  best  critics  to  decide  that  he 
was  the  first  Englishman,  after  the  revival  of  letters, 
who  wrote  Latin  verses  with  taste.  While  at  college, 
Milton  exhibited  the  high  spirit  which  always  distin- 
guished him. 

Disgusted  with  much  that  he  saw  around  him,  his 
love  of  truth  and  justice  found  vent  in  words,  and  on 
one  occasion,  at  least,  it  also  manifested  itself  in  a 
way  which  neaily  led  to  very  serious  consequences. 
His  tutor  Chappell  and  he,  having  had  some  personal 
altercation,  the  exercise  of  tongues  led  to  the  use  of 
hands,  which  caused  a  tussle  to  take  place,  and  led  to 
the  interference  of  the  principal  of  the  college.  This, 
or  some  other  circumstance,  produced  Milton's  tempo- 
rary suspension,  but  after  a  short  time  he  was  re- 
admitted to  the  University,  and  studied  under  another 
tutor,  named  Tovey.  Some  writers  affirm  that  he  re- 
ceived corporal  punishment  by  the  whip,  which  was 
then  permitted  at  the  national  seats  of  learning,  but 
there  is  no  good  evidence  of  the  truth  of  this  assertion. 
Notwithstanding  every  difficulty,  Milton  increased  in 
learning.  When  twenty  years  old  he  became  Bachelor 
of  Arts,  and  at  twenty-three  took  the  degree  of  Master 
of  Arts  with  great  applause.  But  he  had  the  mortifi- 
cation of  seeing  a  Fellowship  which  he  much  desired  be- 
stowed on  an  inferior.  While  at  Cambridge,  he  wrote 
his  epitaph  on  Shakespeare,  which  was  the  first  of  his 
works  that  appeared  in  print ;  he  also  wrote,  it  is  said, 
the  "Ode  on  the  Nativity/'  one  of  the  noblest  of  all 
his  works,  and  perhaps  the  finest  lyric  in  the  English 
language. 

Doubtless  we  shall  be  excused  if  we  mention  here  the 
London  and  Cambridge  Carrier,  who  flourished  at  this 


200  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

time,  especially  as  it  is  no  less  a  personage  than  Hob- 
son,  the  horse-keeper,  who  gave  rise  to  the  well-known 
aphorism,  "  Hobson's  choice,  that  or  none."  He  was  the 
originator  of  livery-stables,  and  practised  his  occupation 
with  such  success  at  Cambridge  that  he  often  had  forty 
horses  in  his  stables  at  a  time;  but  although  the 
profits  from  this  source  were  great,  nothing  would  in- 
duce him  to  cease  from  driving  his  waggon  himself,  to 
and  from  the  metropolis,  which  he  did  regularly  for 
sixty  years;  and  when  the  plague  that  broke  out  at  the 
commencement  of  the  reign  of  Charles  the  First  caused 
laws  to  be  enacted  prohibiting  intercourse  between 
various  towns,  old  Hobson  pined  for  want  of  his  usual 
occupation,  and  died  of  ennui  at  the  age  of  86.  Hob- 
son  was  a  great  benefactor  of  Cambridge,  and  the  ex- 
cellent water-supply  now  enjoyed  by  that  town  is  due 
to  his  liberality.  Milton  appears  to  have  taken  a  hu- 
morous interest  in  him,  which  he  manifested  by  writ- 
ing two  elegies  in  his  commemoration.  During  his 
university  career  Milton  had  friends  as  well  as  ene- 
mies, for  he  himself  says  that  at  Cambridge  he  met 
with  more  than  ordinary  favour  and  respect.  Having 
at  the  age  of  twenty-three  accomplished  all  that  ap- 
peared practicable  at  the  University,  our  poet  left 
Cambridge,  after  a  residence  there  of  about  seven 
years,  and  went  to  live  with  his  parents,  who  had  re- 
tired to  Horton,  Bucks,  17£  miles  from  London.  It 
had  originally  been  intended  that  he  should  become  a 
clergyman  of  the  Established  Church,  but  religious  and 
political  scruples  long  made  him  hesitate,  and  at  length 
caused  him  to  decide  on  not  taking  that  step.  His 
friends  then  urged  him  to  embrace  the  legal  profes- 
sion; this,  however,  he  summarily  rejected.  But  al- 
though without  regular  occupation,  the  sequel  of  his 
life  sufficiently  shows  that  he  had  no  idea  of  being 
useless  in  his  day  and  generation. 

And  now,  before  pursuing  this  biography  further,  let 
us  endeavour  to  form  some  idea  of  Milton's  appearance 


EIOGRAPHY.  201 

when  a  young  man.  We  gather  from  statements  by 
himself  and  others,  that  he  was  a  little  under  the  mid- 
dle height,  had  light  brown  hair,  a  complexion  ex- 
ceedingly fair,  an  oval  face,  and  dark  grey  eyes.  He 
was  called  in  his  college  "the  lady,"  but  there  was 
nothing  weak  or  effeminate  in  his  demeanour.  An 
eminent  writer  says,  "  His  voice  was  delicate  and 
tunable ;  it  could  be  firm  in  the  low  tenor  notes,  and 
carry  tolerably  sonorous  matter."  "  His  deportment," 
says  Wood,  "was  affable,  his  gait  erect  and  manly, 
bespeaking  courage  and  undauntedness."  Here  Wood 
apparently  follows  Milton's  own  account  of  himself, 
where  he  tells  us  that  in  his  youth  he  did  not  neglect 
"  daily"  practice  with  his  sword,  and  that  he  was  not 
so  "very  slight,"  but  that,  "armed  with  it,  as  he 
generally  was,  he  was  in  the  habit  of  thinking  himself 
quite  a  match  for  any  one,  even  were  he  much  the  more 
robust,  and  of  being  perfectly  at  ease  as  to  any  injury 
that  any  one  could  offer  him,  man  to  man." 

At  Hortoii,  Milton  lived  from  the  age  of  twenty-three 
to  thirty,  a  period  which  was  not  onlv  very  important 
in  the  development  of  his  mind,  but  also  fertile  in  the 
fruits  of  his  genius.  He  read  the  Greek  and  Boman 
classics,  bestowing  particular  attention  on  history. 
Not  long  after  his  retirement  to  the  country  must  have 
been  produced  the  verses  which  he  contributed  to  the 
masque  of  '  Arcades ;'  his  exquisite  masque  of  '  Comus/ 
one  of  the  masterpieces  of  English  poetry,  was  acted 
by  the  Earl  of  Bridgewater's  sons  and  daughter  in 
person,  at  Ludlow  Castle,  Michaelmas,  1634;  and  in 
1638,  was  printed  the  monody  of  (  Lycidas/  a  refined 
embodiment  of  classical  fancies  in  the  interwoven 
melodies  of  the  Italian  lyrists.  '  L' Allegro  '  and  c  II 
Penseroso '  likewise,  the  most  beautiful  of  all  descrip- 
tive poems,  had  their  birth  almost  certainly  in  these 
few  years  of  calm  and  pleasant  seclusion.  The  most 
poetical  style  of  the  ancients  was  adopted  and  enno- 
bled by  Milton  in  his  early  efforts,  and  there  are  extant, 


202     f  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

in  his  own  handwriting,  memoranda  of  a  hundred 
stories  from  Scriptural  and  British  history,  which 
presented  themselves  to  him  when  a  young  man  as 
fit  themes  for  tragedies,  and  the  treatment  of  which, 
in  several  instances,  he  laid  down  in  outline ;  and  the 
same  paper  contains  a  plan  for  working  into  a  tragedy 
or  mystery,  the  incidents  which  eventually  took  au 
epic  shape  in  '  Paradise  Lost !' 

His  residence  in  Buckinghamshire  did  not  prevent 
Milton  from  making  frequent  visits  to  London,  where 
he  sometimes  received  lessons  from  the  most  distin- 
guished masters  in  mathematics  and  music.  We 
visited  Horton  in  May,  1871,  and  found  that  the  house 
in  which  Milton  lived  seven  years,  and  produced  some 
of  the  best  of  his  works,  had  been  pulled  down  about 
twenty-two  years,  and  a  handsome  modern  residence 
built  in  its  place.  We  were  informed  that  this  was 
done  by  the  present  owner  and  occupier  of  the  pro- 
perty, who,  it  is  said,  not  only  pulled  down  the  house 
but  also  destroyed  every  vestige  of  England's  greatest 
poet.  The  village  is  very  small,  is  almost  modern  in 
its  appearance,  and  contains  more  than  the  usual  pro- 
portion of  gentlemen's  residences.  The  church,  however, 
is  decidedly  old,  and  is  covered  with  remarkably  fine 
ivy ;  in  the  churchyard  are  two  yew-trees  which, 
doubtless,  gave  shade  to  Milton,  during  the  production 
of  his  immortal  lays.  The  larger  of  the  trees  is  13£ 
feet  round,  and  its  branches  extend  to  a  distance  of 
33  feet  from  the  trunk.  Wooden  planks  are  in  many 
instances  used  instead  of  tombstones,  some  of  them 
being  seven  feet  long. 

Horton  is  not  connected  with  the  metropolis — by 
railway  or  coach — but  it  is  only  two  miles  from  the 
Datchet  Station  of  the  South-Western  line,  and  three 
from  Langley  Broom  (sometimes  called  Langley  Marsh) 
on  the  Great  Western. 

In  1638,  soon  after  the  death  of  his  mother,  who 
was  probably  buried  at  Horton,  although  her  grave- 


BIOGRAPHY.  ,      203 

cannot  now  be  traced,  Milton  obtained  permission  of 
his  father  to  travel  on  the  Continent  and  accordingly 
set  out,  accompanied  by  a  man-servant,  and  provided 
with  several  introductions  to  influential  persons. 

On  arriving  at  Paris  he  was  introduced  by  the  minister 
of  England,  Lord  Scuddimore,  to  the  eminent  Grotius. 
This  distinguished  scholar,  although  a  native  and  citi- 
zen of  Holland,  was  then  the  Ambassador  of  Queen 
Christina  of  Sweden  at  the  court  of  France ;  and  it 
is  to  him  that  the  world  is  indebted  for  the  book  which 
has  been  taken  by  common  consent  as  the  basis  of  in- 
ternational law.  Milton  did  not  stay  long  in  Paris  ; 
one  week  there  was  quite  enough  for  him,  as  he  neither 
liked  the  manners  nor  the  genius  of  the  people.  After 
passing  through  France  by  short  stages  he  visited 
Genoa  and  Florence.  In  the  latter  place  he  stayed  two 
months,  and  formed  the  acquaintance  of  several  emi- 
nent men,  among  whom  was  the  great  Galileo.  This- 
renowned  astronomer  was  then  about  seventy-four  years 
old,  and  had  just  become  totally  blind,  in  which  state 
he  continued  until  his  death,  which  took  place  four 
years  later.  Neither  scientific  attainments,  nor  phy- 
sical affliction,  could  shield  Galileo  from  the  persecu- 
tions of  fanatical  bigots,  and  accordingly  we  find  that 
at  the  time  of  Milton's  visit  he  was  a  prisoner  in  his 
own  house,  under  the  charge  of  the  Inquisition.  The- 
impression  made  on  Milton's  mind  by  the  deplor- 
able position  of  the  sightless  philosopher  was  deep 
and  lasting,  as  is  shown  by  several  allusions  to  it  in 
his  works,  and  we  may  be  sure  that  the  feeling  was 
increased  tenfold,  when  "  light,  the  prime  work  of 
God,"  was  denied  to  himself.  While  in  Florence,  it  is 
said,  that  Milton  fell  in  love  with  a  young  lady  of  great 
beauty  and  merit,  to  whom  he  addressed  the  following 
verses  in  Italian,  with  which  language  he  was  then 
imperfectly  acquainted : — 

"  When  in  your  language,  I  unskill'd,  address 
The  short-pac'd  efforts  of  a  trauirael'd  muse ; 


204  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

Soft  Italy's  fair  critics  round  me  press, 
And  my  mistaking  passion  thus  accuse. 

"  Why,  to  our  tongue's  disgrace,  does  thy  dumb  love 
Strive  in  rough  sounds,  soft  meanings  to  impart  ? 
He  must  select  his  words,  who  speaks,  to  move : 
And  points  his  purpose  at  the  hearer's  heart. 

"  Then,  laughing,  they  repeat  my  languid  lays — 
Nymphs  of  thy  native  clime,  perhaps  they  cry, 
For  whom  tliou  hast  a  tongue — may  feel  thy  praise  : 
But  we  must  understand  ere  we  comply. 

"  Do  thou,  my  soul's  soft  hope !  these  trifles  awe ; 
Tell  them,  'tis  nothing  how,  or  what  I  writ  ; 
Since  Love,  from  silent  looks,  can  language  draw, 
And  scorns  the  lame  impertinence  of  wit." 

Milton  next  went  to  Rome,  where  he  was  courteously 
received  by  the  most  influential  persons,  amongst  whom 
was  Cardinal  Barberini,  afterwards  Pope  Urban  the 
Eighth.  He  thence  proceeded  to  Naples  in  company 
with  a  hermit,  who  was  the  cause  of  his  being  intro- 
duced to  Manso,  Marquis  of  Villa,  the  patron  of 
Tasso.  The  marquis  treated  Milton  with  distinguished 
kindness,  and  like  many  other  learned  Italians  com- 
posed verses  in  his  honour.  This  courtesy  Milton 
was  not  slow  to  reciprocate,  and  it  is  universally  ad- 
mitted that  in  these  friendly  competitions  our  coun- 
tryman invariably  carried  off  the  palm.  While  in 
Naples  Milton  heard  from  England  of  the  growing 
misunderstanding  between  the  king  and  Parliament, 
and  having  too  much  principle  to  be  indifferent  to 
politics,  and  too  much  courage  to  be  absent  from  the 
post  of  danger,  he  determined  to  relinquish  his  plan  of 
travelling  in  Greece  and  other  countries,  and  to  repair 
at  once  to  London.  He,  therefore,  immediately  com- 
menced his  homeward  journey,  and  having  passed 
through  Rome,  and  paid  a  flying  visit  to  Venice,  he 
arrived  at  Geneva,  where  he  stayed  a  short  time. 
Although  his  reception  in  Italy  was  most  flatter- 
ing, his  homeward  journey  was  not  without  danger; 
his  honesty  of  speech  had  offended  the  ultra  ecclesias- 


BIOGRAPHY.  205 

tics,  and  lie  was  warned  that  the  Jesuits  were  plotting 
some  mischief  against  him.  As,  however,  he  never 
courted  controversy,  although  his  convictions  obliged 
him  not  to  shrink  from  it  when  pressed,  his  prudence 
prevented  the  ripening  of  their  machinations,  and  no 
harm  befell  him.  On  quitting  Geneva  he  hastened  to 
England,  through  France,  as  fast  as  the  travelling  ap- 
pliances of  those  days  would  permit,  and  now,  on  wel- 
coming Milton  again  to  his  native  shore,  after  an  absence 
of  fifteen  months,  we  cannot  do  better  than  transcribe 
what  he  says  himself  as  to  his  conduct  while  abroad : 
"  I  again  take  God  to  witness,"  he  writes,  "that  in  all 
those  places,  where  so  many  things  are  considered  law- 
ful, I  lived  sound  and  untouched  from  all  profligacy 
and  vice,  having  the  thought  perpetually  with  me, 
that  though  I  might  escape  the  eyes  of  men,  I  cer- 
tainly could  not  the  eyes  of  God."  We  behold  our 
man  of  genius,  at  the  age  of  thirty-two,  in  the  city 
of  London,  in  lodgings  for  a  time  at  the  house  of 
one  Eussell,  a  tailor,  in  St.  Bride's  Churchyard,  Fleet 
Street,  attending  to  the  education  of  his  nephews, 
John  and  Edward  Philips,  and  diligently  watching  the 
political  horizon.  Here  he  formed  the  acquaintance  of 
Patrick  Young,  librarian  to  Charles  I.,  and  although 
Milton  and  Young  differed  widely  on  matters  of  State- 
policy,  yet  they  were  united  in  a  common  love  of  lite- 
rature. Soon  after  his  return  to  England  he  heard  of 
the  death  of  his  friend  Charles  Diodati,  of  whom  we 
have  already  had  occasion  to  speak,  and  whose  loss 
Milton  deplores  in  his  elegant  'Epitaphium  Da- 
mornas.J  Finding  his  apartments  too  small,  Milton 
took  a  house,  which  is  described  as  being  "  a  pretty 
garden-house  in  Aldersgate  Street,  at  the  end  of  an 
entry,  and  therefore  the  fitter  for  his  turn,  by  reason  of 
his  privacy ;  besides  that  there  are  few  streets  in  Lou- 
don  more  free  from  noise."  Here  he  increased  the 
number  of  his  pupils,  and  seems  to  have  carried  out 
with  success  some  of  the  principles  afterwards  commu- 


206  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

nicated  to  the  world  in  his  '  Tractate  of  Education.' 
These  principles  seem  to  consist  in  the  development  of 
thought  in  preference  to  the  cultivation  of  memory. 
His  aim  was  to  make  really  God-fearing  citizens,  with 
sound  heads  and  healthy  bodies. 

In  3  641  Milton  began  his  prose  writings  by  the  pub- 
lication of  his  first  controversial  work,  entitled  '  A 
Tractate  of  Reformation/  which  was  immediately  fol- 
lowed by  e  Prelatical  Episcopacy/  the  reason  of  church- 
government  urged  against  prelacy ;  and  some  animad- 
versions on  a  tract  by  Bishop  Hall.  In  the  next  year 
appeared  his  '  Apology  for  Smectymnuus/  the  cogno- 
men of  certain  writers  of  the  puritan  party.  All  these 
works  were  decidedly  in  favour  of  the  puritans,  to 
whose  cause  he  was  ardently  attached.  Amid  his  varied 
occupations,  however,  Milton  managed  to  find  time  to 
pay  his  addresses  to  a  lady,  to  whom  he  was  married 
about  the  year  1643,  when  he  was  thirty-five  years  old. 
The  fair  one  of  his  choice  was  Mary,  the  daughter  of 
Richard  Powell,  Esq.,  a  justice  of  the  peace,  of  Forrest 
Hill,  about  three  miles  from  the  city  of  Oxford.  The 
members  of  this  lady's  family  were  staunch  royalists, 
which  makes  Milton's  choice  appear  somewhat  strange, 
especially  as  we  find  that  his  wife  had  scarcely  lived  with 
him  a  month  when  she  left,  and  returned  to  her  father's 
house,  utterly  refusing  to  live  with  him,  though  strongly 
urged  by  her  husband  to  do  so.  This  conduct  greatly  in- 
censed Milton,  and  caused  him  to  devote  special  atten- 
tion to  the  consideration  of  the  law  of  divorce,  and  the 
result  of  his  thoughts  we  have  in  four  treatises,  in  which 
he  maintains  the  lawfulness  of  divorce  for  disobedience, 
and  for  other  causes  short  of  matrimonial  unfaithful- 
ness. Whatever  may  have  been  thought  of  these  books 
at  the  time,  it  is  certain  that  they  have  exercised  con- 
siderable influence,  especially  of  late  years,  on  the 
legislation  of  this  and  other  countries.  Milton  was  not 
a  man  to  be  content  with  mere  theories,  and  therefore, 
having  publicly  disowned  his  wife,  and  justified  him- 


BIOGRAPHY.  207 

self  in  print,  lie  proceeded  to  pay  his  addresses  to 
another  lady,  who  was  the  daughter  of  Dr.  Davis.  This 
step  had  a  most  unlocked  for  effect  on  his  wife,  who, 
being  seized  with  remorse,  or  some  other  feeling, 
managed  to  obtain  access  to  her  husband  at  the  house 
of  a  friend  in  St.  Martin' s-le-Grand,  and  throwing  her- 
self at  his  feet  passionately  implored  his  forgiveness. 
This  was  too  much  for  Milton;  his  head  was  strong 
enough  to  contend  with  the  whole  world  united,  but 
his  heart  was  as  soft  as  a  child's ;  he  therefore  lovingly 
received  back  his  erring  spouse,  and  we  hear  no  more 
of  any  breach  in  their  domestic  peace.  It  may,  how- 
ever, be  remarked,  that  he  never  received  the  whole  of 
the  dowry  promised  at  the  marriage.  About  this  time 
appeared  the  greatest  of  Milton's  prose  works,  being 
an  appeal  to  all  parties  for  the  freedom  of  the  press. 
It  was  entitled  '  Areopatica,  a  Speech  for  the  Liberty 
of  Unlicensed  Printing  to  the  Parliament  of  England  / 
a  work  which  contains  in  the  same  space  more  passages 
of  surpassing  eloquence  than  any  other  which  pro- 
ceeded from  his  pen,  or  from  that  of  any  other  writer, 
ancient  or  modern.  He  now  removed  with  his  father, 
who  had  been  living  with  him  for  some  time,  to  a  larger 
house  in  Barbican,  where  once  stood  the  city  watch- 
tower.  Here  he  generously  afforded  shelter  to  his 
wife's  parents  and  brothers,  who  were  hiding  for  fear 
of  punishment  from  the  Parliament,  which  was  now 
triumphant.  Milton  not  only  gave  them  an  asylum, 
but  eventually  obtained  a  pardon  for  them,  as  he  did 
also  for  his  own  brother,  and  many  others.  It  is  be- 
lieved that  both  his  father  and  step-father  died  at  this 
residence. 

The  house  in  Barbican,  pointed  out  by  tradition  as 
that  in  which  the  poet  resided,  was  No.  1 7.  For  many 
years  it  was  occupied  by  a  dyer,  until  1864,  when  it 
was  purchased  by  the  Metropolitan  Eailway  Company 
for  £3250. 

We  visited  this  house  ;n  May,  1867,  and  found  it  in 


208  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

course  of  demolition,  but  many  of  the  apartments  still 
existed.  What  our  feelings  were,  when  sitting  in  the 
room  where  this  great  and  good  man  wrote  some  of  his 
works,  and  where  he  afforded  the  shield  of  his  protec- 
tion to  those  who  had  so  grievously  wronged  him,  can 
be  more  easily  imagined  by  the  reader  than  described. 
We  cut  a  small  piece  of  wood  from  the  oldest  part  of 
the  house,  which  will  ever  be  preserved  as  a  sacred 
relic.  The  house  was  pulled  down  in  1869,  it  being 
condemned  as  unsafe  by  the  district  surveyor,  owing  to 
the  foundation  having  been  weakened  by  the  works  of 
the  Metropolitan  Eailway. 

A  humorous  incident  is  connected  with  the  demoli- 
tion of  this  building.  The  name  of  the  dyer  who  last 
occupied  it  was  Heaven.  On  quitting  he  posted  a  notice 
to  inform  the  public  that  his  business  was  removed. 
The  two  most  prominent  words  in  the  notice  were  his 
name  and  the  word  "removed,"  so  that  the  only  words 
that  caught  the  attention  of  the  ordinary  passer-by 
were  "  Heaven  removed."  This,  as  may  be  imagined, 
caused  no  little  merriment,  for  the  most  grave  persons 
were  struck  with  the  circumstance  that  the  house  of 
the  author  of  'Paradise  Lost'  should  have  the  an- 
nouncement upon  it  of  "  Heaven  removed  ! " 

In  1643,  Milton  removed  from  Barbican  to  a  smaller 
house  in  High  Holborn,  the  back  of  which  looked  into 
Lincoln's  Inn  Fields.  Here  he  devoted  himself  to  study, 
and  nothing  for  some  time  appeared  from  his  pen. 
About  this  period  his  sight  began  to  fail,  and  in 
1644,  when  thirty-six  years  old,  his  left  eye  was 
almost  entirely  useless.  Strong  feeling,  however, 
made  him,  instead  of  sparing  himself,  enlarge  his 
sphere  of  action,  and  in  February,  1649,  a  few  weeks 
after  the  execution  of  Charles  I.,  he  published,  in  de- 
fence of  that  act,  a  work  entitled  '  The  Tenure  of 
Kings  and  Magistrates/  In  the  following  month  he 
accepted  from  the  Parliament  an  appointment  as  Secre- 
tary for  Foreign  Tongues  to  the  Council  of  State,  which 


BIOGEAPHY.  209 

post  was  created  in  consequence  of  the  Government 
having  decided  that  all  treaties  with  foreign  powers 
should  henceforth  be  made  in  Latin  instead  of  French, 
and  it  may  be  observed  that  Latin  continued  to  be  the 
treaty  language  of  England  until  the  beginning  of  the 
present  century,  when  French  was  again  employed. 
For  the  position  in  which  we  now  find  our  author  he 
was  pre-eminently  qualified,  for  besides  having  a 
thorough  knowledge  of  Latin,  Italian,  Spanish,  and 
French,  he  was  well  acquainted  with  Greek,  Syriac, 
and  Hebrew,  and  it  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  Milton 
was  the  best  English  and  Latin  scholar  of  his  time. 

By  desire  of  the  Council  of  State,  Milton,  without  re- 
ceiving any  payment,  other  than  his  salary  (which  was 
only  £280  per  annum),  composed  his  '  Eikonoclastes/ 
being  an  answer  to  the  'Eikon  Basilike/  which  had  been 
published  as  the  work  of  the  unfortunate  King  Charles 
I.  The  Prince  of  Wales,  afterwards  Charles  II.,  having 
taken  refuge  in  Holland,  was  anxious  that  a  book 
should  appear  in  defence  of  his  father  and  the  prin- 
ciples of  monarchy.  He  therefore  engaged  the  services 
of  Salmasius,  who  was  considered  the  most  learned 
author  and  critic  of  the  day.  Salmasius,  or  Claude 
Saumaise,  was  a  Protestant  native  of  Burgundy,  who 
had  fled  to  Holland  to  avoid  the  persecutions  of  the 
French  king.  He  eventually  became  Professor  of 
Literature  and  History  at  the  University  of  Leyden, 
and  acquired  a  European  reputation  as  "  the  monarch 
of  learning."  To  him,  as  we  have  seen,  the  young 
prince  applied,  to  vindicate  with  the  pen,  what  the 
sword  had  failed  to  effect  in  the  field.  To  stimulate 
his  ardour  Charles  presented  him  with  a  hundred 
jacobuses,  viz.  £105  sterling,  and  in  consequence  soon 
appeared  the  work  of  Salmasius,  which  was  fondly  ex- 
pected to  silence  Cromwell,  and  all  his  adherents.  But 
the  Eoundheads  had  men  among  them  with  brains, 
who  could  use  the  pen  as  well  as  the  sword,  and  no 
sooner  had  the  book  '  Defensio  Regis '  appeared,  than 


210  BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 

Milton  resolved  to  answer  it.  At  this  time  he  was 
weak  in  body,  and  dim  of  sight,  but  his  heart  was  in 
the  cause,  and  what  was  wanting  in  physical  power  he 
supplied  by  zeal. 

Soon  was  issued  Milton's  '  Defence  of  the  People  of 
England/  and  its  praises  rang  through  Europe.  Those 
who  opposed  its  principles  admired  its  style,  and  even 
the  sovereign  then  reigning  in  Sweden,  Queen  Chris- 
tina, praised  Milton's  production  in  the  presence  of 
Salmasius  himself.  Although  much  learning  was  em- 
ployed in  this  controversy,  it  was  marred  by  the 
presence  of  a  large  admixture  of  personal  scurrility. 

As  Salmasius  had  received  a  gift  of  money  from 
Charles  before  writing  his  book,  the  Parliament  of 
England  were  not  slow  to  reward  Milton  after  he  had 
so  successfully  disposed  of  his  antagonist.  They  accord- 
ingly voted  him  £1000,  equal  to  £3000  of  the  present 
day.  But  although  prosperity  smiled  on  our  author 
from  without,  personal  and  domestic  trials  gathered 
thickly  around  him. 

After  residing  a  short  time  at  Whitehall,  he  went  to 
live  in  Petty-France,  now  York  Street,  Westminster, 
where  his  wife  died,  leaving  him  with  three  children,  the 
eldest  not  more  than  eight  years  old,  and,  as  though  that 
were  not  enough,  his  sight  that  had  long  been  failing, 
was  so  overtaxed  during  the  production  of  the  '  Defence 
of  the  People  of  England/  that  at  length  it  refused  its 
office  altogether,  and  left  its  former  possessor  with 
"  during  dark  surrounding ; "  and  here  we  may  re- 
mark, that  according  to  Aubrey  the  sight  of  Milton's 
.  mother  was  so  weak  that  she  had  to  wear  spectacles 
before  the  age  of  thirty.  Salmasius,  in  a  second 
work,  exulted  at  Milton's  misfortunes ;  but  ere  his 
book  was  in  print  he  himself  was  summoned  from  the 
arena  of  strife,  it  being  generally  said  that  he  died  of 
a  broken  heart,  caused  by  the  wounds  given  to  his 
pride  by  Milton's  caustic  quill.  Milton,  after  his 
blindness,  replied  to  Salmasius's  second  book,  and 


BIOGRAPHY.  '211 

fully  maintained  his  former  reputation.  We  thus  find 
our  author  blind  at  the  age  of  forty-four,  a  widower  with 
three  small  children,  with  the  welfare  of  a  great  nation 
depending,  to  a  large  extent,  on  his  exertions,  and 
with  his  health  thoroughly  broken.  But  his  soul  sank 
not  at  this  accumulation  of  sorrow ;  his  faith  in  God  was 
strong,  and  he  set  about  contending  with  the  various 
evils  as  best  he  might.  His  first  care  was  for  the  State, 
he  therefore  obtained  the  appointment  of  an  assistant- 
secretary  to  help  him  in  his  official  duties.  This  post 
was  held  for  a  short  time  by  the  trusty  Andrew  Marvel. 
He  next  procured  a  second  mother  for  his  children, 
by  marrying  an  amiable  lady,  Catherine  Woodcock, 
the  daughter  of  Captain  Woodcock,  of  Hackney ;  and 
although  his  family  was  soon  deprived  of  her  loving 
care,  yet  her  influence  for  the  time  seems  to  have  been 
most  salutary.  It  is  remarkable  that  Milton's  first  two 
wives  died  in  childbed,  and  it  may  here  be  named  that 
his  third  wife,  whom  he  married  in  1660,  survived  him 
for  several  years.  Her  name  was  Elizabeth  Minshall, 
the  daughter  of  a  Cheshire  gentleman.  The  descrip- 
tion of  the  circumstances  connected  with  his  becoming 
blind,  and  the  feelings  which  actuated  him  under  his 
calamity,  are  thus  given,  i-n  a  letter  written,  about 
two  years  after  his  total  loss  of  sight,  to  a  foreign 
friend,  who  had  advised  him  not  to  give  up  all  hope  of 
recovery,  and  who  had  offered  to  lay  his  case  before  an 
eminent  Continental  ophthalmic  surgeon.  Addressing 
his  friend  he  thus  speaks  : — 

"  Known  to  you  only  by  my  writings,  and  widely 
separated  in  our  abodes,  I  was  first  honoured  by  your 
kind  correspondence,  and  afterwards,  when  an  unex- 
pected occasion  brought  you  to  London,  with  the  same 
kindness  you  came  to  see  me,  who  could  see  nobody ; 
one  labouring  under  an  affliction  which  can  entitle 
him  to  little  observation,  and  may  perhaps  expose  him 
to  -  some  disregard.  As,  however,  you  entreat  me  not 
to  abandon  all  hopes  of  recovering  my  sight,  and  state 

p  2 


212  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

that  you  have  a  medical  friend  at  Paris  (M.  Thevenot),. 
particularly  eminent  as  an  oculist,  whom  you  would 
consult  upon  the  subject,  if  I  would  transmit  to  you 
the  causes  and  symptoms  of  the  disease,  that  I  may 
not  neglect  any  means  (perhaps  divinely  suggested)  of 
relief,  I  will  hasten  to  comply  with  your  requisition. 

"  It  is  now,  I  think,  about  ten  years  since  I  first  per- 
ceived my  sight  to  grow  weak  and  dim,  and  at  the 
same  time  my  spleen  and  other  viscera  heavy  and  flatu- 
lent. When  I  sat  down  to  read  as  usual,  in  the  morn- 
ing, my  eyes  gave  me  considerable  pain,  and  refused 
their  office  till  fortified  by  moderate  exercise  of  body. 
If  I  looked  at  a  candle  it  appeared  surrounded  with  an 
iris.  In  a  little  time  a  darkness  covering  the  left  side 
of  the  eye  (which  was  partially  clouded  some  years, 
before  the  other)  intercepted  the  view  of  all  things  in 
that  direction.  Objects,  also,  in  front,  seemed  to  dwin- 
dle in  size  whenever  I  closed  my  right  eye.  This  eye, 
too,  for  three  years  gradually  failing,  a  few  months 
previous  to  my  total  blindness,  while  I  was  perfectly 
stationary,  everything  seemed  to  swim  backward  and 
forward ;  and  now  thick  vapours  appear  to  settle  on 
my  forehead  and  temples,  which  weigh  down  my  eye- 
lids with  an  oppressive  sense  of  drowsiness. 

"I  ought  not,  however,  to  omit  mentioning  that, 
before  I  wholly  lost  my  sight,  as  soon  as  I  lay  down  in 
bed,  and  turned  on  either  side,  brilliant  flashes  of  light 
used  to  issue  from  my  closed  eyes ;  and  afterwards,  on 
the  gradual  failure  of  my  powers  of  vision,  colours  pro- 
portionally dim  and  faint  seemed  to  rush  out  with  a 
degree  of  vehemence  and  a  kind  of  noise.  These  have 
now  faded  into  uniform  blackness,  such  as  ensues  on 
the  extinction  of  a  candle;  or  blackness,  only  varied 
and  intermingled  with  dimmish  grey.  The  constant 
darkness,  however,  in  which  I  live  day  and  night, 
inclines  more  to  a  whitish  than  a  blackish  tinge ;  and 
the  eye  turning  round,  admits,  as  through  a  narrow 
chink,  a  very  small  portion  of  light.  But  this,  though 


BIOGRAPHY.  213 

perhaps  it  may  offer  a  small  glimpse  of  hope  to  the 
physician,  does  not  prevent  me  from  making  up  my 
mind  to  my  case,  as  one  evidently  beyond  the  hope  of 
cure ;  and  I  often  reflect  that,  as  many  days  of  dark- 
ness, according  to  the  wise  man,  are  allotted  to  us  all, 
mine  (which,  by  the  favour  of  the  Deity,  are  divided 
between  leisure  and  study)  are  recreated  by  the  con- 
versation and  intercourse  of  my  friends,  and  far  more 
agreeable  than  those  deadly  shades  of  which  Solomon 
is  speaking.  But  if,  as  it  is  written,  '  Man  shall  not 
live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
out  of  the  mouth  of  God/  why  should  not  each  of  us 
likewise  acquiesce  in  the  reflection,  that  he  derives  the 
benefit  of  sight,  not  from  his  eyes  alone,  but  from  the 
guidance  and  providence  of  the  same  Supreme  Being  ? 
Whilst  he  looks  out,  and  provides  for  me  as  he  does, 
and  leads  me  about,  as  it  were,  with  his  hand,  through 
the  paths  of  life,  I  willingly  surrender  my  own  faculty 
of  vision,  in  conformity  to  his  good  pleasure;  and  with 
a  heart  as  strong  and  steadfast  as  if  I  were  a  Lynceus, 
I  bid  you,  my  Phalaris,  farewell." 

It  is  curious  to  observe  in  the  preceding  letter  how 
keenly  Milton  appreciates  the  neglect  to  which  blind- 
ness often  subjects  its  victims,  and  from  which  the 
greatness  of  his  talents  and  reputation  could  not  shield 
him.  It  has  been  well  said  that  we  cannot  expect  too 
little  from  man,  nor  too  much  from  God,  within  the 
bounds  of  his  promises,  and  Milton  seems  to  have  been 
quite  of  this  opinion.  The  cause  of  the  loss  of  vision  in 
this  case  is  usually  stated  to  have  been '  gutta  serena/  but 
we  are  inclined  to  believe  from  the  foregoing  descrip- 
tion that  c  gout/  from  which  Milton  greatly  suffered, 
was  the  most  potent  agent.  Many  persons  who  only 
possess  a  ray  of  light  fondly  delude  themselves  with  a 
hope  of  obtaining  full  restoration,  and  frequently  im- 
pair their  health  and  waste  their  means  by  undergoing 
fruitless  medical  experiments.  Milton  would  not  thus 
deceive  himself;  for  we  find  that,  although  he  could 


214  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

perceive  light,  lie  would  not  buoy  himself  up  with 
false  hopes,  but  would  face  the  danger  firmly  at  once. 
The  strong  comfort  and  entire  dependence  on  the  will 
of  God,  expressed  in  this  letter,  are  too  beautifully 
stated  by  the  writer  to  need  comment.  Lynceus  was 
a  hunter  of  the  Calydonian  wild  boar ;  he  was  also  one 
of  the  Argonauts,  and  is  said  in  classic  fable  to  have 
been  able  to  see  nine  miles  through  the  solid  earth. 
Milton's  allusion  to  him  seems  to  indicate  that  he 
wished  to  convey  the  idea  that  he,  though  blind,  could, 
like  Lynceus,  see  beneath  the  surface  of  worldly  things. 
The  following  lines  were  probably  written  about  the 
same  time  as  the  foregoing  letter,  and  they  show  still 
further  the  mind  of  the  author : — 

"  When  I  consider  how  my  light  is  spent 
Ere  half  my  days,  in  this  dark  world  and  wide, 
And  that  one  talent  which  is  death  to  hide 
Lodged  with  me  useless,  though  my  soul  more  bent 
To  serve  therewitli  my  Maker,  and  present 
My  true  account,  lest  he,  returning,  chide. 
'  Doth  God  exact  day-labour,  light  denied  ?  ' 
I  fondly  ask ;  but  Patience,  to  prevent 
That  murmur,  soon  replies,  '  God  doth  not  need 
Either  man's  work,  or  his  own  gifts ;  who  best 
Bear  his  mild  yoke,  they  serve  him  best :  his  state 
Is  kingly  ;  thousands  at  his  bidding  speed, 
And  post  o'er  land  and  ocean  without  rest ; 
They  also  serve  who  only  stand  and  wait.'  " 

Three  years  after  his  affliction  Milton  thus  writes  to- 
his  friend  Cyriack  Skinner,  a  merchant  of  London : — 

"  Cyriack,  this  three  years'  day  these  eyes,  though  clear, 
To  outward  view,  of  blemish  or  of  spot, 
Bereft  of  light,  their  seeing  have  forgot ; 
Nor  to  their  idle  orbs  doth  sight  appear 
Of  sun,  or  moon,  or  star,  throughout  the  year, 
Or  man  or  woman.     Yet  I  argue  not 
Against  Heaven's  hand  or  will,  nor  bate  a  jot 
Of  heart  or  hope  ;  bub  still  bear  up  and  steer 
Eight  onward.    What  supports  me,  dost  thou  ask  ? 
The  conscience,  friend,  to  have  lost  them  overplied 
In  liberty's  defence,  my  noble  task, 
Of  which  all  Europe  rings  from  side  to  side. 
This  thought  might  lead  me  through  the  world's  vain  mask, 
Content,  though  blind,  had  I  no  better  guide." 


BIOGRAPHY.  215 

Milton  although  exhibiting  resignation  to  the  will  of 
his  heavenly  Father,  and  manifesting  a  firm  resolve  to 
"  still  bear  up  and  steer  right  onward,"  was  not  in- 
sensible of  the  greatness  of  the  evils  imposed  on  him 
by  blindness.  This  is  shown  by  some  observations  in 
the  preceding  extracts,  and  also  by  many  passages 
in  '  Paradise  Lost/  '  Samson  Agonistes/  etc.,  and 
some  of  these  references  to  his  own  feelings  it  is 
deemed  advisable  to  transcribe  here  : — 

"  O  loss  of  sight,  of  thee  I  most  complain ! 
Blind  among  enemies,  O  worse  than  chains, 
Dungeon,  or  beggary,  or  decrepit  age ! 
Light,  the  prime  work  of  God,  to  me  is  extinct, 
And  all  her  various  objects  of  delight 
Annull'd,  which  might  in  part  my  grief  have  eased. 
Inferior  to  the  vilest  now  become 
Of  man  or  worm ;  the  vilest  here  excel  me; 
They  creep,  yet  see  ;  I,  dark  in  light,  exposed 
To  daily  fraud,  contempt,  abuse,  and  wrong, 
Within  doors,  or  without,  still  as  a  fool, 
In  power  of  others,  never  in  my  own  ; 
Scarce  half  I  seem  to  live,  dead  more  than  half, 
O  dark,  dark,  dark,  amid  the  blaze  of  noon, 
Irrevocably  dark,  total  eclipse 
Without  all  hope  of  day  ! 
O  first-created  beam,  and  thou  great  Word, 
'  Let  there  be  light,  and  light  was  over  all ; ' 
Why  am  I  thus  bereaved  thy  prime  decree  ? 
The  sun  to  me  is  dark 
And  silent  as  the  moon, 
When  she  deserts  the  night, 
Hid  in  her  vacant  interlunar  cave. 
Since  light  so  necessary  is  to  life, 
And  almost  life  itself,  if  it  be  true 
That  light  is  in  the  soul, 
She  all  in  every  part ;  why  was  this  sight 
To  such  a  tender  ball  as  the  eye  confined 
So  obvious  and  so  easy  to  be  quench'd  ? 
And  not,  as  feeling,  through  all  parts  diffused, 
That  she  might  look  at  will  through  every  pore. 
Then  had  I  not  been  thus  exiled  from  light, 
As  in  the  land  of  darkness,  yet  in  light, 
To  live  a  life  half  dead,  a  living  death, 
And  buried ;  but,  O  yet  more  miserable ! 
Myself  my  sepulchre,  a  moving  grave ; 
Buried,  yet  not  exempt', 


216  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

By  privilege  of  death  and  burial, 

From  worst  of  other  evils,  pains,  and  wrongs  ; 

But  made  hereby  obnoxious  more 

To  all  the  miseries  of  life." 

Samson  Agonistes. 

"  Thus  with  the  year 
Seasons  return  ;  but  not  to  me  returns 
Day,  or  the  sweet  approach  of  even  or  morn, 
Or  sight  of  vernal  bloom,  or  summer's  rose, 
Or  flocks,  or  herds,  or  human  face  divine ; 
But  cloud  instead,  and  ever-during  dark 
Surrounds  me,  from  the  cheerful  ways  of  men 
Cut  off,  and,  for  the  book  of  knowledge  fair, 
Presented  with  a  universal  blank 
Of  nature's  works,  to  me  expunged  and  rased, 
And  wisdom  at  one  entrance  quite  shut  out : 
So  much  the  rather  thou,  celestial  light, 
Shine  inward,  and  the  mind  through  all  her  powers 
Irradiate  ;  there  plant  eyes,  all  mist  from  thence 
Purge  and  disperse,  that  I  may  see  and  tell 
Of  things  invisible  to  mortal  sight." 

Paradise  Lost,  book  iii. 

There  are  also  two  other  poems  on  this  subject 
written  by  Milton  in  his  old  age,  which  seem  to  be 
connected  with  a  singular  incident  in  the  author's  life. 
It  is  said  that  the  Duke  of  York,  afterwards  James 
the  Second,  having  heard  much  of  Milton,  said  to  his 
brother,  Charles  the  Second,  that  he  should  like  to  see 
him.  Charles  advised  him  to  do  so,  and  accordingly 
the  Duke  went  with  his  attendants  to  Milton's  house 
in  Artillery  Walk,  now  that  part  of  Bunhill  Row 
called  Artillery  Place  West,  Chiswell  Street,  E.G. 
Milton  was  then  advanced  in  years,  and  suffering 
much  from  gout.  The  Duke  asked  him  whether 
he  did  not  consider  his  blindness  to  be  a  judgment, 
inflicted  on  him  for  writing  against  the  late  king. 
11  If  your  highness  thinks/'  he  replied,  "  that  the 
calamities  which  befall  us  here  are  indications  of 
the  wrath  of  heaven,  in  what  manner  are  we  to  ac- 
count for  the  fate  of  the  king,  your  father  ?  The  dis- 
pleasure of  heaven  must  have  been  much  greater  against 
him  than  against  me,  for  I  hare  ou]y  lost  my  eyes, 


BIOGRAPHY.  217 

but  he  lost  his  head !  "  The  Duke,  disconcerted  by 
the  answer,  went  his  way,  and  exclaimed  on  reaching 
the  palace :  "  Brother,  you  are  greatly  to  blame  that 
you  don't  have  that  old  rogue,  Milton,  hanged." 
"  Why,  what  is  the  matter,  James  ?  "  said  the  king ; 
"  you  seem  in  a  heat.  What !  have  you  seen  Milton  ?  " 
"  Yes,"  answered  James,  "  I  have  seen  him."—"  Well," 
said  the  king,  "  in  what  condition  did  you  find  him  ?  " 
"  Why,  he  is  very  old  and  poor." — ' '  And  blind  too,  is 
he  not  ?  "— "  Yes ;  blind  as  a  beetle."— "  Why  then," 
observed  the  merry  monarch,  "  you  are  a  fool,  James, 
to  have  him  hanged  as  a  punishment;  to  hang  him 
would  be  doing  him  a  service,  it  would  be  taking  him 
out  of  his  miseries ;  if  he  is  old,  poor,  and  blind,  he  is 
miserable  enough  in  all  conscience.  Let  him  live ! "  The 
two  poems  that  seem  connected  with  this  incident,  we 
shall  proceed  to  insert.  The  first,  entitled  '  The  Sacred- 
ness  of  the  Blind/  was  not  published  until  the  second 
lialf  of  the  nineteenth  century;  it  is  taken  from  a  manu- 
script copy,  as  rendered  in  the  newspapers  of  the  day, 
but  which  it  is  believed  has  not  yet  appeared  in  any 
edition  of  Milton's  writings ;  and  the  second  entitled 
'  Lines  by  Milton  in  his  Old  Age/  was  discovered 
about  the  same  time,  and  published  in  an  Oxford  edition 
of  the  poet's  works. 

The  Sacredness  of  the  Blind. 

"  And  surely  we,  the  blind,  are  not  the  least  care  of 
God.  Woe,  woe  to  him  who  mocks — to  him  who 
harms  us.  Us,  whom  the  Divine  law,  the  Divine 
power,  has  not  only  shielded  from  injury,  but  has 
almost  rendered  sacred !  He  seems,  indeed,  to  have 
brought  this  darkness  upon  us,  not  so  much  by  the 
bedimining  of  our  eyes,  as  by  the  overshadowing  of  His 
heavenly  wings ;  a  darkness  which  He  not  seldom 
illumines  with  interior  and  far  more  gracious  light. 
So  may  I  be  consummated,  by  this  infirmity  !  So  may 
I  thus  be  irradiated  by  obscurity  !  " 


218  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 


« Lines  ly  Milton  in  his  Old  Age.' 

"  I  am  old  and  blind ; 

Men  point  to  me  as  smitten  by  God's  frown 
Afflicted  and  deserted  of  my  mind, 
Yet  I  am  not  cast  down. 

"  I  am  weak,  yet  strong  : 
I  murmur  not  that  I  no  longer  see  : 
Poor,  old,  and  helpless,  I  the  more  belong, 

Father  supreme !  to  Thee. 
"  O  merciful  One, 

When  men  are  farthest,  then  Thou  art  most  near 
When  friends  pass  by,  my  weakness  shun, 
Thy  chariot  I  hear. 

"  Thy  glorious  face 

Is  leaning  towards  me,  and  its  holy  light 
Shines  in  upon  my  lonely  dwelling  place, 
And  there  is  no  more  night. 

"  On  my  bended  knee 
I  recognise  Thy  purpose  clearly  shown 
My  vision  Thou  hast  dimmed  that  I  may  see 
Thyself,  Thyself  alone 

"  I  have  nought  to  fear ; 
This  darkness  is  the  shadow  of  Thy  wing, 
Beneath  it  I  am  almost  sacred — here 
Can  come  no  evil  thing. 

"  Oh  !  I  seem  to  stand 

Trembling  where  foot  of  mortal  ne'er  hath  been, 
Wrapped  in  the  radiance  of  Thy  sinless  land, 
Which  eye  hath  never  seen. 

"  Visions  come  and  go ; 

Shapes  of  resplendent  beauty  round  me  throng: 
From  angels'  lips  I  seem  to  hear  the  flow 
Of  soft  and  holy  song. 

"  It  is  nothing  now, 

When  heaven  is  opening  on  my  sightless  eyes, 
When  airs  from  Paradise  refresh  my  brow, 
The  earth  in  darkness  lies. 

"  In  a  purer  clime 

My  being  fills  with  rapture  ;  waves  of  thought 
Roll  in  upon  my  spirit ;  strains  sublime 
Break  over  me  unsought. 

"  Give  rae  now  my  lyre ! 
I  feel  the  stirrings  of  a  gift  divine ; 
Within  my  bosom  glows  unearthly  fire, 
Lit  by  no  skill  of  mine." 


BIOGRAPHY.  219 

Should  these  verses  have  been  written,  as  we  suppose, 
in  connection  with  the  insult  offered  by  James  to 
Milton,  then  it  is  remarkable  that  the  woe  denounced 
by  the  blind  poet  should  have  actually  fallen  on  James, 
for  no  greater  punishment  could  have  happened  to  a 
king  and  a  father,  than  to  see  himself  driven  from  his 
throne  by  his  own  daughter ;  (see  the  reign  of  William 
and  Mary ;)  and,  also  to  have  had  another  daughter, 
Queen  Anne,  so  undutiful  as  to  accept  the  throne  from 
which  her  parent  had  been  exiled,  and  to  repossess 
himself  of  which  he  was  then  straining  every  nerve. 

Having  somewhat  digressed  from  the  thread  of  our 
narrative,  we  must  now  return  to  the  house  in  Petty 
France,  where  we  left  the  great  politician  and  man  of 
letters.  The  house  named  was,  when  Milton  inhabited 
it,  next  to  Lord  Scuddamore's.  It  was  ten  years  ago  a 
small  cutlery  shop,  and  is  marked  in  the  London  hand- 
books as  No.  19,  York  Street,  Westminster.  The  fol- 
lowing inscription  may  still  be  found  at  the  back  of  the 
premises  :  "  Sacred  to  Milton,  Prince  of  Poets."  There 
was  until  a  recent  period  in  the  garden  a  cotton- willow- 
tree,  said  to  have  been  planted  by  Milton  himself,  who, 
it  is  well  known,  was  no  mean  adept  in  horticulture,  but 
this  interesting  relic  was  blown  down  in  1868.  At  the 
time  of  our  visit,  May,  1871,  the  house  was  in  a  most 
wretched  condition,  being  inhabited  by  the  very 
poorest  persons.  It  was  four  storeys  high,  and  the 
basement  was  used  for  the  sale  of  fried  fish  and  ginger 
beer.  Why  should  not  these  premises  be  made  avail- 
able for  the  use  of  some  charitable  institution,  and 
thus  be  kept  in  decent  order  and  preserved  from  decay  ? 
If  the  house  were  purchased  by  subscription,  and  given 
in  trust  to  the  Association  for  Promoting  the  General 
Welfare  of  the  Blind,  to  be  let  out  in  tenements  to> 
blind  workmen  at  a  very  cheap  rate,  its  use  for  such 
a  purpose  would  be  most  appropriate,  at  the  same  time 
that  it  would  be  secured  to  the  nation  as  a  historical 
memento. 


220  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

In  1653,  Cromwell  having  dismissed  the  parliament 
and  taken  the  reins  of  government  into  his  own  hands, 
still  retained  Milton  as  Latin  Secretary,  and  some  time 
after  employed  him  to  draw  up  '  A  Defence  of  the  War 
with  Spain/ 

That  the  secretaryship  was  no  sinecure,  is  shown  by 
the  circumstance  that  a  delay  having  occurred  in  the 
completion  of  a  treaty  with  Sweden,  the  cause  as- 
signed was,  that  Mr.  Milton  was  indisposed.  On  this 
the  Swedish  ambassador  is  said  to  have  remarked 
that  it  was  strange  there  was  "  only  one  man  in  Eng- 
land who  could  write  Latin,  and  that  he  was  blind." 
Among  the  pieces  written  by  our  author,  about  this 
time,  were  :  '  A  Treatise  of  Civil  Power  in  Ecclesias- 
tical Causes/  '  The  Likeliest  Means  to  remove  Hire- 
lings out  of  the  Church/  and  '  The  Present  Means  and 
Brief  Delineation  of  a  Commonwealth/  It  may  not 
be  out  of  place  here  to  remark,  that  Milton  seems  to 
have  entertained  the  opinion  that  his  blindness,  heavy 
though  he  felt  it  to  be,  added  new  vigour  to  his 
genius,  which  certainly  appears  to  have  been  the  case, 
as  his  greatest  poetical  works  and  many  of  his  political 
contributions  were  produced  after  loss  of  sight.  Mil- 
ton's labours  as  foreign  secretary,  after  he  became  blind, 
were  of  the  most  ardous  character,  and  his  '  State 
Papers '  comprised  dispatches  to  almost  every  European 
court.  These  productions  are  now  very  little  known ; 
but  as  the  reader  may  be  interested  in  learning  some 
particulars  regarding  them,  we  insert  two  specimens 
taken  from  a  little  work,  published  in  1694,  entitled 
'Letters  of  State,  written  by  John  Milton  to  most 
of  the  Sovereign  Princes  and  Republicks  of  Europe. 
From  the  year  1649,  till  the  year  1659/  The  first 
is  a  dispatch  to  the  Duke  of  Savoy,  strongly  re- 
monstrating against  the  cruelties  practised  by  him 
on  the  Waldenses,  and  the  second  is  an  invitation 
to  Charles  Gustavus  Adolphus,  King  of  Sweden,  to 
enter  into  an  alliance,  offensive  and  defensive,  with 


BIOGRAPHY.  221 

the  English  government,  for  the  protection  of  the  same 
oppressed  people.  Both  these  dispatches  were  written 
in  the  name  of  Cromwell,  although  they  emanated  from 
Milton's  pen. 

The  dispatches  are  as  follow,  and  we  give  the  English 
translation,  verbatim  et  literatim,  as  published  in  the 
volume  above  named  : — 

Oliver  the  Protector,  etc.  To  the  most  Serene  Prince 
Immanuel,  Duke  of  Savoy ;  Prince  of  Piemont, 
Greeting. 

"  Most  Serene  Prince, 

"  Letters  have  bin  sent  us  from  Geneva,  as 
also  from  the  Dauphinate,  and  many  other  Places  bor- 
dering upon  your  Territories,  wherein  we  are  given  to 
understand,  That  such  of  your  Eoyal  Highnesses  Sub- 
jects as  profess  the  Reformed  Religion,  are  Commanded 
by  your  Edict,  and  by  your  Authority,  within  threo 
days  after  the  Promulgation  of  your  Edict,  to  depart 
their  Native  Seats  and  Habitations,  upon  pain  of  capi- 
tal Punishment,  and  Forfeiture  of  all  their  Fortunes 
and  Estates,  unless  they  will  give  security  to  relinquish 
their  Religion  within  Twenty  days,  and  embrace  the 
Roman  Catholic  Faith.  And  that  when  they  appli'd 
themselves  to  your  Royal  Highness  in  a  most  Suppliant 
manner,  imploring  a  Revocation  of  the  said  Edict,  and 
that  being  received  into  pristin  favour,  they  might  be 
restored  to  the  Liberty  granted  'em  by  your  prede- 
cessors, a  part  of  your  army  fell  upon  'em,  most  cruelly 
Slew  several,  put  others  in  Chains,  and  compel!' d  the 
rest  to  Flye  into  Desert  places  and  to  the  Mountains 
cover'd  with  snow,  where  some  Hundreds  of  Families 
are  reduc'd  to  such  Distress,  that  'tis  greatly  to  be 
fear'd,  they  will  in  a  short  time  all  miserably  Perish 
through  Cold  and  Hunger.  These  things,  when  they 
were  related  to  us,  we  could  not  chuse  but  be  touched 
with  extream  Grief  and  Compassion  for  the  Sufferings 
and  Calamities  of  this  Afflicted  People.  Now  in  regard 


222  ,.  BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 

we  must  acknowledge  ourselves  link' d  together  not  onely 
by  the  same  tye  of  Humanity,  but  by  joynt  Communion 
of  the  same  Religion,  we  thought  it  impossible  for  us 
to  satisfie  our  Duty  to  God,  to  Brotherly  Charity,  or 
our  Profession  of  the  same  Religion,  if  we  should 
onely  be  affected  with  a  bare  sorrow  for  the  Misery  and 
Calamity  of  our  Brethren,  and  not  contribute  all  our 
endeavours  to  Relieve  and  Succour  'em  in  their  unex- 
pected Adversity,  as  much  as  in  us  lies.  Therefore  in 
a  greater  measure  we  most  earnestly  Beseech  and  Con- 
jure your  Royal  Highness,  that  you  would  call  back 
to  your  thoughts,  the  moderation  of  your  most  Serene 
Predecessors,  and  the  Liberty  by  them  Granted  and 
Confirmed  from  time  to  time  to  their  Subjects  the 
Vaudois.  In  Granting  and  Confirming  which,  as 
they  did  that,  which  without  all  question  was  most 
grateful  to  God,  who  has  bin  pleas'd  to  reserve  the 
Jurisdiction  and  Power  over  the  Conscience  to  himself 
alone,  so  there  is  no  doubt  but  that  they  had  a  due  con- 
sideration of  their  Subjects  also,  whom  they  found 
Stout,  and  most  Faithful  in  War,  and  always  Obedient 
in  Peace  :  And  as  your  Royal  Serenity  in  other  things 
most  laudably  follows  the  footsteps  of  your  Immortal 
Ancestors,  so  we  again  and  again  beseech  your  Royal 
Highness  not  to  swerve  from  the  path  wherein  they 
trod  in  this  particular ;  but  that  you  would  vouchsafe 
to  Abrogate  both  this  Edict,  and  whatsoever  else  may 
be  Decreed  to  the  Disturbance  of  your  Subjects  upon 
the  account  of  the  Reformed  Religion  ;  that  you  would 
ratifie  to  'em  their  conceded  Privileges  and  pristin 
Liberty,  and  command  their  Losses  to  be  repair'd  and 
that  an  end  be  put  to  their  Oppressions.  Which  if 
your  Royal  Highness  shall  be  pleas'd  to  see  perform'd, 
you  will  do  a  thing  most  acceptable  to  God,  revive  and 
comfort  the  miserable  in  dire  Calamity,  and  most 
highly  oblige  all  your  Neighbours  that  profess  the 
Reformed  Religion,  but  more  especially  our  selves,  who 
shall  be  bound  to  look  upon  your  Clemency  and  Be- 


BIOGRAPHY.  223 

nignity  toward  your  Subjects  as  the  fruit  of  our  earnest 
Solicitation.  Which  will  both  engage  us  to  a  reciprocal 
return  of  all  good  Offices,  and  lay  the  solid  foundations 
not  only  of  establishing,  but  encreasing  Alliance  and 
Friendship  between  this  Kepublick  and  your  Dominions. 
Nor  do  we  less  promise  this  to  our  selves  from  your 
Justice  and  Moderation ;  to  which  we  Beseech  Al- 
mighty God  to  encline  your  Mind  and  Thoughts.  And 
so  we  cordially  Implore  Just  Heaven  to  bestow  upon 
your  Highness  and  your  People  the  Blessings  of  Peace 
and  Truth,  and  prosperous  Success  in  all  your  Affairs. 
"Whitehall,  May,  1655." 

"  Oliver  Protector,  to  the  most  Serene  Prince,  Charles 
Gustavus  Adolphus,  King  of  the  Swedes,  Greeting. 

"  We  make  no  question  but  that  the  fame  of 
that  most  rigid  Edict  has  reached  your  Dominions, 
whereby  the  Duke  of  Savoy  has  totally  Ruined  his  Pro- 
testant Subjects  inhabiting  the  Alpine  valleys,  and  com- 
manded 'em  to  be  exterminated  from  their  Native 
Seats  and  Habitations,  unless  they  will  give  security 
to  renounce  their  Eeligion  received  from  their  Fore- 
fathers, in  exchange  for  the  Eoman  Catholick  Super- 
stition, and  that  within  Twenty  days  at  farthest ;  so 
that  many  being  knTd,  the  rest  Strip  to  their  Skins 
and  exposed  to  most  certain  destruction,  are  now  forced 
to  wander  over  desert  Mountains,  and  through  per- 
petual Winter,  together  with  their  Wives  and  Children, 
half  dead  with  Cold  and  Hunger ;  and  that  your  Ma- 
jesty has  laid  it  to  heart  with  a  Pious  sorrow  and  com- 
passionate consideration  we  as  little  doubt.  For  that 
the  Protestant  Name  and  Cause,  although  they  differ 
among  themselves  in  some  things  of  little  consequence, 
is  nevertheless  the  same  in  general,  and  united  in  one 
common  interest,  the  hatred  of  our  Adversaries,  alike 
insenc'd  against  Protestants,  very  easily  demonstrates. 
Now  there  is  no  body  can  be  ignorant,  that  the 


224  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

Kings  of  the  Swedes  have  always  joyn'd  with  the  Re- 
formed, carrying  their  Victorious  Arms  into  Germany 
in  Defence  of  the  Protestants  without  distinction. 
Therefore  we  make  it  our  chief  request,  and  that  in  a 
more  especial  manner  to  your  Majesty,  that  you  would 
solicit  the  Duke  of  Savoy  by  Letters,  and  by  interpos- 
ing your  intermediating  Authority,  endeavour  to  avert 
the  horrid  Cruelty  of  this  Edict,  if  possibly,  from 
People  no  less  Innocent  then  Religious.  For  we  think 
it  superfluous  to  admonish  your  Majesty,  whither  these 
rigorous  beginnings  tend,  and  what  they  threaten  to 
all  the  Protestants  in  general.  But  if  he  rather  chuse 
to  listen  to  his  Anger  then  to  our  joynt  Intreaties  and 
Intercessions,  if  there  be  any  Tye,  any  Charity  or 
Communion  of  Religion  to  be  Belie v'd  and  Worshipped, 
upon  Consultations  duly  first  communicated  to  your 
Majesty  and  the  Chief  of  the  Protestant  Princes,  some 
other  course  is  to  be  speedily  taken,  that  such  a  nu- 
merous multitude  of  our  Innocent  Brethren  may  not 
miserably  Perish  for  want  of  Succour  and  Assistance. 
Which  in  regard  we  make  no  question  but  that  it  is 
your  Majesty's  Opinion  and  Determination,  there  can 
be  nothing  in  our  opinion  more  prudently  resolved,  then 
to  joyn  our  Reputation,  Authority,  Councels,  Forces, 
and  whatever  else  is  needful,  with  all  the  speed  that 
may  be,  in  pursuance  of  so  Pious  a  design.  In  the 
mean  time  we  beseech  Almighty  God  to  Bless  your 
Majesty/' 

After  the  death  of  the  great  Protector,  Milton 
still  held  office  under  the  weak  but  amiable  Richard 
Cromwell,  and  during  the  anarchy  that  ensued,  he 
exerted  all  his  powers  to  prevent  the  return  of  the 
Stuarts.  For  that  purpose  he  wrote  several  pamphlets, 
to  one  of  which  an  answer  was  published  by  some  one, 
now  unknown,  under  the  offensive  title  of  '  No  Blind 
Guide/  The  good  fortune  of  Charles  II.,  and  the 
destiny  of  these  islands  eventually  prevailing  against 
Milton's  utmost  efforts,  he  abandoned  the  post  of  Latin 


BIOGRAPHY.  225 

Secretary  (after  having  held  it  ten  years,  during  seven 
of  which  he  was  totally  blind),  and  concealed  him- 
self in  the  house  of  a  friend  in  Bartholomew  Close, 
Smithfield,  which  place,  even  at  the  present  day,  seems 
well  suited  for  such  a  purpose.  A  special  indictment 
was  framed  against  him  by  the  triumphant  party; 
but  by  some  means  never  explained,  it  was  with- 
drawn, and  Milton  received  a  full  pardon.  It  is,  how- 
ever, probable,  that  the  influence  of  Sir  William 
Davenant,  and  other  royalists  whom  Milton  had 
formerly  protected,  coupled  with  the  poet's  great  fame, 
may  have  produced  this  result.  It  has  been  stated 
that  his  friends  gave  out  he  was  dead,  and  that 
they  held  a  sham  funeral  to  distract  attention  from 
his  hiding-place  until  his  pardon  could  be  procured. 
Milton  did  not,  however,  altogether  escape,  for  on 
some  pretext  he  was  taken  into  the  custody  of  the 
Sergeant-at-Arms,  and,  on  his  liberation,  refusing  to 
pay  the  customary  fees,  he  and  the  Sergeant  appeared 
at  the  bar  of  the  House  of  Commons,  where  the  matter 
was  settled,  doubtless  to  Milton's  satisfaction,  as  we 
hear  no  more  about  it.  But  if  our  author  escaped,  so 
did  not  one  of  his  works,  for  '  The  Defence  of  the 
People  of  England '  was  ordered  to  be  burnt  by  the 
common  hangman.  It  is  said  that  the  Government  of 
Charles  offered  to  reinstate  Milton  as  Foreign  Secre- 
tary, but  that  he  pertinaciously  refused;  and  that 
being  urged  by  his  wife  to  yield,  on  the  ground  that 
if  they  wished  to  live  they  must  go  with  the  times, 
"  You  are  right,  my  dear,"  said  Milton,  "like  all  other 
women,  your  ambition  is  to  ride  in  your  coach,  while 
mine  is  to  live  and  die  an  honest  man."  Our  author, 
soon  after  these  events,  removed  to  Holborn,  near 
Red  Lion  Square,  and  thence  to  Jewin  Street,  Alders- 
gate  Street,  which  takes  its  name  from  a  Jews'  burial 
ground  that  occupied  the  site  as  early  as  the  twelfth 
century.  He  was  now  reduced  to  great  poverty, 
so  that  it  was  with  much  thankfulness  he  accepted  the 

Q 


226  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

offer  of  Mr.  Ellwood,  a  Quaker,  to  attend  upon  him 
daily  to  read  Latin,  his  reward  being  the  advantage 
of  Milton's  conversation.  Ellwood  was  induced  to  read 
with  an  Italian  accent,  as  the  ear  of  the  sage  was 
annoyed  whenever  Latin  was  spoken  with  an  En- 
glish pronunciation.  He  could  also  tell  when  his 
reader  did  not  understand  a  passage,  and  would  stop 
him  to  give  copious  explanations.  Moving  from  Jewin 
Street,  he  went  to  Grub  Street,  well  known  in  the  last 
century  as  the  abode  of  poor  authors ;  and  it  is  remark- 
able that  even  before  the  introduction  of  printing, 
writers  of  A,  B,  C,  books  lived  there.  It  is  a  very 
humble  thoroughfare,  and  is  now  named  Milton  Street. 
The  house  in  which  he  is  said  to  have  lived  is  the  second 
on  the  right  side  of  the  way  from  Fore  Street,  and  is 
at  present  a  small  shop  for  the  sale  of  sweetmeats. 
The  house  is  very  mean,  and  never  could  have  been 
much  better,  so  that  the  distress  of  our  author,  when  he 
lived  there,  must  have  been  great  indeed ;  especially  as 
there  is  evidence  for  believing  that  he  was  only  in  lodg- 
ings. This  poverty  was  caused  by  heavy  pecuniary 
losses,  and  by  his  house  having  been  accidentally  burnt. 
But  from  some  unexplained  cause  a  partial  revival  of 
his  affairs  suddenly  occurred,  which  enabled  him  to 
take  a  house  in  Artillery  "Walk,  now  Artillery  Place 
West,  which  is  the  half  of  the  eastern  side  of  Bunhill 
Eow,  nearest  Chiswell  Street,  E.G.  Here  he  settled  for 
the  remainder  of  his  life,  and  devoted  all  the  energies  of 
his  great  mind  to  the  production  of  a  work  that  he  had 
long  had  in  contemplation.  In  1642,  about  twenty 
years  before  the  date  of  which  we  are  now  treating,  he 
thus  speaks  in  a  volume  entitled  '  The  Reason  of  Church 
Government  urged  against  Prelacy/  After  having 
promised  to  undertake  something,  he  "  yet  knows  not 
what,  that  may  be  of  use  and  an  honour  to  his  country." 
"This,"  says  he,  "is  not  to  be  obtained  but  by  devout 
prayer  to  that  Eternal  Spirit  that  can  enrich  with  all 
utterance  and  knowledge,  and  sends  out  his  seraphim 


BIOGRAPHY.  227 

•with  the  hallowed  fire  of  his  altar,  to  touch  and  purify 
the  lips  of  whom  he  pleases."  "To  this  must  be  added/' 
he  continues,  f '  industrious  and  select  reading,  steady 
observation,  an  insight  into  all  seemingly  and  generous 
arts  and  affairs ;  till  which,  in  some  measure  be  com- 
pass'd,  I  refuse  not  to  sustain  this  expectation." 

We  thus  see  how  Milton  prepared  himself  during 
twenty  years  for  his  great  task,  and  having  at  length 
resolved  on  an  epic  poem  consecrated  to  the  service  of 
Christianity,  he  settled  down,  in  1662,  to  the  comple- 
tion of  his  stupendous  undertaking.  This  work  spe- 
cially occupied  him  for  three  years,  and  resulted  in  the 
production,  in  1665,  of  '  Paradise  Lost/  a  poem  never 
equalled  by  any  composition  in  ancient  or  modern  times. 
To  attempt  to  praise  such  a  book  would  be  vain  and 
superfluous,  and  such  an  effort  might  fairly  expose  us  to 
the  charge  of  wishing  to  commend  ourselves  while  pro- 
fessing to  applaud  Milton.  All  that  we  can  say  is,  that 
if  any  one  has  not  read  '  Paradise  Lost,'  the  sooner  he 
does  so  the  better  for  himself. 

Not  being  sufficiently  well-to-do  in  the  world  to  bear 
the  expense  of  a  secretary,  Milton  had  to  trust  to  his 
daughters,  and  to  the  chance  assistance  of  friends,  to 
get  his  thoughts  transferred  to  paper.  Whenever  an 
idea  occurred  to  him,  he  immediately  pressed  into  his 
service  whoever  might  be  near,  to  write  it  down.  His 
daughters  read  to  him  in  various  languages,  but  as  they 
could  not  understand  what  they  were  reading,  they 
found  the  continuous  application  very  irksome  which, 
it  is  said,  greatly  grieved  their  father,  who  seems  not 
to  have  entered  sufficiently  into  the  position  of  the 
young  women,  but  to  have  had  his  whole  soul  entirely 
engrossed  in  sublime  contemplations.  This  family 
difference  the  stepmother  was  far  from  appeasing, 
and  it  eventually  resulted -in  the  daughters  being  sent 
from  their  home  to  learn  the  art  of  embroidery.  It  is 
stated  that  if  Milton  had  an  idea  in  the  night,  he  had 
one  of  his  daughters  awoke  to  record  it,  from  which  it 

Q  2 


228  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

may  be  gathered  that  his  wife  was  unable  to  render  him 
any  assistance  in  his  literary  pursuits.  The  names  of 
Milton's  children  who  reached  maturity  were  Anne, 
Mary,  and  Deborah.  With  his  insatiable  thirst  for 
knowledge,  and  for  the  prosecution  of  his  work,  it  can 
easily  be  imagined  that  the  poet  would  hail  with  joy  the 
acquisition  of  a  disciple  who  would  sympathize  with 
him  in  his  toils,  and  be  thankful  to  place  his  eyes  and 
hands  at  the  disposal  of  the  philosopher  in  return  for 
his  unequalled  instruction.  Such  an  one  was  found  in 
Mr.  Ellwood,  a  Quaker,  and  the  sequel  proves  how  fully 
Milton  appreciated  his  services.  In  1665,  the  plague 
having  broken  out  in  London,  Milton  accepted  the  invi- 
tation of  Ellwood  to  visit  some  of  his  friends  in  Bucking- 
hamshire, where  he  finished  '  Paradise  Lost,'  and  on 
putting  it  into  the  hands  of  Ellwood,  the  latter  re- 
marked, "  Thou  hast  said  a  great  deal  upon  t  Paradise 
Lost/  what  hast  thou  to  say  upon  Paradise  found  ?" 
Fully  appreciating  the  force  of  this  suggestion,  Milton 
at  once  set  to  work,  and  produced  e  Paradise  Regained/ 
which  composition  would  be  the  greatest  in  the  world,  if 
'  Paradise  Lost '  did  not  exist.  Such,  at  least,  is  the 
opinion  of  critics  generally,  but  it  was  not  entertained 
by  Milton  himself,  for  he  constantly  gave  the  prefer- 
ence to  '  Paradise  Regained/  The  house  where  '  Para- 
dise Lost'  was  completed,  and  ' Paradise  Regained' 
begun,  still  exists  at  Chalfont  St.  Giles,  Bucks ; 
it  is  known  in  the  neighbourhood  as  Milton  Cot- 
tage. It  stands  at  one  end  of  a  quaint  little  village, 
the  most  conspicuous  object  of  which  is  an  immense 
elm-tree  in  the  centre  of  the  road.  The  cottage  is 
double  fronted,  having  an  apartment  on  each  side  of 
the  doorway,  and  consists  of  five  rooms,  viz.  two  on 
the  basement  and  three  on  the  floor  above,  the  largest 
room  on  the  basement  is  seventeen  feet  long,  eleven 
wide,  and  six  feet  three  inches  high  j  the  floor  is  still 
paved  with  red  bricks,  but  the  adjoining  room  and  pas- 
sage have  recently  been  boarded.  There  is  a  small  front 


BIOGEAPHY.  229 

and  side  garden,  containing  a  well  which,  doubtless,  sup- 
plied the  poet  with  water,  and  there  was  formerly  at- 
tached to  the  house  an  orchard,  which  is  now  separated 
and  let  by  itself.  At  the  date  of  our  visit,  April  29th, 
1871,  the  cottage  was  occupied  by  an  army  pensioner, 
named  Thomas  Bell,  who,  although  eighty-five  years  old, 
still  works  at  his  trade  as  a  tailor ;  he  was  a  native  of  the 
county  of  Durham,  was  present  at  the  battle  of  Vimeira, 
August  21st,  1808,  and  fought  at  Corunna  under  Sir 
John  Moore,  January  16th,  1809,  and  received  two 
wounds  at  Salamanca,  July22ud,  1812,  which  disabled 
him  from  further  service  ;  the  veteran  with  pardonable 
pride  showed  us  medals  for  these  engagements  and 
also  the  flattened  bullet  extracted  from  his  elbow.  T. 
Bell  informed  us  that  although  he  had  lived  in  the 
house  forty  years,  there  had  not  been  one  blind  person 
to  visit  the  place.  The  aged  tenant  paid  a  rental  of 
seven  guineas  per  annum  for  the  cottage,  and  stated  that 
the  average  number  of  visitors  (chiefly  Americans  and 
Quakers)  was  forty  a  year.  No  book  was  kept  for  the 
names  of  visitors,  but  very  good  photographs  of  the 
house  were  for  sale.  In  all  illustrations  the  cottage 
looks  larger  than  it  really  is,  the  breadth  of  the  front 
giving  an  idea  of  corresponding  depth  which  is  not  the 
case,  as  there  are  no  back  premises.  Chalfont  St. 
Giles  must  not  be  confounded  with  Chalfont  St.  Peter, 
which  is  two  miles  distant.  The  former  place  is 
twenty-two  miles  from  London  by  road,  three  miles 
from  Amersham,  Bucks,  and  eight  miles  from  Pinner, 
Middlesex,  which  is  the  nearest  railway  station,  and  is 
on  the  London  and  North-Western  line.  On  return- 
ing to  London,  Milton  published,  in  1667,  his  '  Paradise 
Lost/  not,  however,  before  it  had  undergone  the  se- 
vere ordeal  of  the  censorship  of  the  Archbishop  of  Can- 
terbury's chaplain,  in  accordance  with  the  law  then 
prevalent,  which  obliged  all  matter,  before  being 
printed,  to  be  licensed.  Among  the  passages  to  which 
objection  was  made  by  the  functionary,  and  that  were 
expunged,  was  the  following  : — 


230  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

"  As  when  the  sun  new  risen 
Looks  through  the  horizontal  misty  air 
Shorn  of  his  heams  ;  or  from  behind  the  moon 
In  dim  eclipse  disastrous  silence  sheds 
On  half  the  nations,  and  with  fear  of  change 
Perplexes  monarchs." 

Being  thus  obliged  to  submit  to  the  mutilation  of  his 
great  work,  Milton  proceeded  to  publication,  and  sold 
the  copyright  to  Samuel  Simmonds,  a  bookseller,  for  an 
immediate  payment  of  five  pounds,  with  a  stipulation  to 
receive  five  pounds  more  when  1500  copies  should  be  sold 
of  the  first  edition,  and  again  five  pounds  after  the  sale 
of  the  same  number  of  the  second  edition,  and  another 
five  pounds  after  the  same  sale  of  the  third  edition.  In 
1669  he  received  his  second  five  pounds,  and  an  addi- 
tional five  pounds  some  time  before  his  death ;  after 
which  his  widow,  in  1678  sold  the  whole  of  her  interest 
in  the  work  for  eight  pounds.  From  this  we  see  that 
the  whole  pecuniary  advantage  reaped  by  Milton  and 
his  family  from  '  Paradise  Lost '  is  represented  by  the 
paltry  sum  of  twenty-three  pounds  !  Truly,  writers  of 
the  present  day  should  not  be  discouraged  at  the  small 
monetaiy  returns  they  may  derive  from  their  works, 
when  they  see  a  production  of  such  transcendent  merit 
realize  so  little  to  its  great  author.  It  is  interesting  to 
find  that  the  original  receipt  given  to  Simmonds  for 
five  pounds  for  the  copyright  of  '  Paradise  Lost '  still 
exists  with  Milton's  own  signature.  A  few  years  ago 
it  was  in  the  possession  of  Samuel  Rogers,  the  poet ; 
who  suspended  it  in  his  library,  side  by  side  with  a 
Bank  of  England  note  for  one  million  pounds,  thus 
forcibly  showing  his  high  appreciation  of  the  auto- 
graph of  the  inimitable  blind  bard. 

In  1671  were  issued  ' Paradise  Regained'  and 
.'  Samson  Agonistes,'  and  in  the  same  year  ap- 
peared Milton's  '  History  of  England/  up  to  the  Nor- 
man Conquest.  Here  also  the  awful  licenser  interfered 
and  cut  out  several  leaves,  some  of  which,  however, 
were  preserved,  and  have  since  been  inserted.  On  the 


BIOGRAPHY.  231 

'  History  of  England '  Milton  bestowed  great  labour, 
but  owing  to  the  difficulty  lie  experienced  in  consulting 
a  variety  of  authors  with  the  sighted  assistance  at  his 
disposal,  he  never  went  beyond  the  first  volume.  To  the 
same  cause  may  also  be  ascribed  the  non-appearance  of 
his  Latin  Dictionary,  three  manuscript  folios  of  which 
were  made  use  of  in  the  '  Cambridge  Dictionary/  pub- 
lished 1693,  some  years  after  Milton's  death.  And 
here  it  may  be  observed  that  if  Milton  had  possessed  a 
method  of  making  tangible  memoranda,  his  difficulty 
in  taking  notes  from  various  authors  and  recording 
his  own  ideas  would  have  been  greatly  lessened.  It 
seems  clear  that  while  Milton  was  at  work  on  his  great 
poetical  compositions  he  varied  his  employment  by 
taking  in  hand  the  history  of  England  and  his  gram- 
mar, and  it  is  instructive  to  find  how  successfully  he 
prosecuted  a  number  of  widely  different  objects  at  the 
same  time. 

In  1673  our  author  published  a  '  Summary  of  Logic,' 
and  also  a  tract  entitled  e  A  Treatise  of  True  Eeligion, 
Heresy,  Schism,  Toleration,  and  the  Best  Means  to 

grevent  the  Growth  of  Popery/  In  this  tract  the 
hurch  of  England  is  mentioned  with  respect,  and  an 
appeal  is  made  to  the  Thirty -nine  Articles  for  the  con- 
firmation of  his  views.  The  principle  of  toleration 
Milton  holds  to  be  a  common  agreement  in  the  suffi- 
ciency of  the  Holy  Scriptures,  and  he  includes  within 
this  pale  all  Christian  sects  then  known,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Eome,  whom 
he  excludes  on  the  ground  that  they  appeal  to  testimo- 
nies other  than  those  of  the  sacred  books.  Under  these 
circumstances  he  argues  that  Eoman  Catholics  should 
not  be  permitted  the  liberty  of  public  or  private  wor- 
ship. Without  having  the  least  sympathy  with  the 
peculiar  views  of  the  Roman  Catholics,  yet  we  are 
bound  to  say  that,  however  plausible  the  foregoing 
argument  may  appear,  it  cannot  induce  us  to  prefer 
Milton's  principle  of  toleration  to  that  laid  down  by 


232  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

Christ  himself,  viz.  "  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as 
thyself ;"  and  it  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  any  one 
endowed  with  such  high  powers,  and  who  contended 
so  well  for  the  all-sufficiency  of  the  Scriptures,  should 
have  overlooked  such  an  important  part  of  their  con- 
tents as  that  which  lays  down  in  language  so  explicit 
and  unmistakable  our  duty  to  our  neighbour.  Milton's 
'  Latin  Letters  and  Juvenile  Exercises,'  written  while 
at  college,  were  published  in  1674,  in  which  year  also 
appeared  his  last  work ;  viz.  '  A  Translation  of  the 
Polish  Declaration  in  Favour  of  John  III.'  (the  famous 
John  Sobieski),  who  had  just  been  called  to  the  throne 
of  Poland  after  inflicting  a  signal  defeat  on  the 
Turks. 

By  the  help  of  Richardson,  and  other  biographers, 
we  are  enabled  to  obtain  a  glimpse  of  Milton's  every- 
day life,  during  his  latter  years,  while  residing  at 
Artillery  Walk.  We  find  that  he  rose  at  five  o'clock 
in  summer,  and  six  in  winter;  had  a  chapter  of  the 
Hebrew  Bible  read,  then  meditated  till  seven ;  listened 
to  reading  till  twelve,  then  took  exercise,  and  some- 
times a  swing  in  a  particular  kind  of  chair  in  his  little 
garden.  After  a  frugal  meal  he  enjoyed  some  music, 
playing  himself  on  the  organ.  At  six  Milton  received 
friends,  among  whom  were  frequently  seen  men  re- 
markable for  birth  and  talent.  He  took  supper  at 
eight,  and  then,  having  smoked  a  pipe  and  taken  a  glass 
of  water,  retired  to  rest  at  nine.  In  addition  to  avail- 
ing himself  of  the  help  of  friends,  Milton  sometimes 
hired  boys  to  read  to  him. 

Foreigners  of  eminence  often  sought  the  poet  out, 
and  before  the  house  in  Bread  Street  was  destroyed  by 
the  fire  of  London,  they  frequently  gratified  their 
curiosity  by  visiting  his  birthplace.  Milton  was  often 
seen  sitting  at  the  door  of  his  small  house  in  Artillery 
Walk,  clothed  in  a  grey  coat  of  coarse  cloth  in  warm 
sultry  weather,  to  enjoy  the  fresh  air,  looking  pale  but 
not  cadaverous.  When  receiving  visitors  he  was 


BIOGRAPHY.  233 

dressed  in  black  neatly  enough,  and  conversed  cheer- 
fully with  seriousness  and  point.  It  is  said  that 
the  walls  of  his  room  were  covered  with  rusty  green, 
which  gives  some  idea  of  the  apartment  in  which  he 
usually  sat.  Milton  suffered  exceedingly  from  gout, 
his  hands  being  covered  with  chalk-stones,  and  it  is 
affirmed  that  he  sometimes  said,  "  if  it  were  not  for 
the  gout  his  blindness  would  be  tolerable."  Among 
his  distinguished  visitors  Dryden  was  frequently  to  be 
numbered,  and  on  one  occasion  he  asked  to  be  allowed 
to  put  '  Paradise  Lost '  into  dramatic  rhyme,  when 
Milton  with  much  civility  told  him  that  he  would  give 
him  leave  "  to  tag  his  verses/'  And  now  we  approach 
the  end.  It  must  be, — but  yet  we  are  loth  to  come  to 
the  close  of  our  hero's  mortal  career.  We  must,  how- 
ever, write  that  Milton  died  on  Sunday,  November  the 
8th,  1674,  being  in  his  sixty-sixth  year.  It  does  not 
appear  that  his  departure  was  foreshadowed  by  more 
than  his  usual  pain,  but  it  seems  that  he  sank  from 
gradual  exhaustion,  and  that  his  spirit  passed  quietly 
away  to  the  presence  of  his  heavenly  Father,  where  all 
darkness  is  made  light,  and  where  doubt  and  suffering 
are  unknown.  . 

If  the  registers  are  correct,  Milton  was  buried  four 
days  after  his  death,  the  interment  taking  place  in  the 
chancel  of  Cripplegate  Church,  where  his  father  was 
laid;  the  daughter  of  his  uncle,  Henry  Milton,  was  also 
buried  in  this  church.  Although  often  neglected  in  life, 
yet  many  persons  of  eminence  attended  the  poet's 
funeral  in  their  carriages.  Aubrey  says  that  a  stone 
marked  the  place  of  his  burial,  but  that  it  was  removed 
when  the  two  steps  of  the  altar  were  raised.  Although 
for  a  long  time  poor,  yet  Milton  left  at  his  death  £1500 
in  money.  He  left  no  will,  but  his  wife  sought  to  esta- 
blish the  validity  of  a  nuncupative  will  (that  is,  one 
made  by  word  of  mouth),  which  would  have  had  the 
effect  of  disinheriting  his  daughters.  This  attempt, 
however,  failed,  as  it  deserved. 


234  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

For  some  time  before  his  death  Milton  was  not  on 
good  terms  with  his  children,  and  spoke  to  his  brother 
of  disinheriting  them ;  what  reason  existed  for  this 
estrangement  it  is  now  impossible  to  say.  It  is  much 
to  be  regretted  that  the  house  in  Artillery  Walk,  where 
the  poet  resided  for  so  many  of  the  later  years  of  his 
life,  cannot  now  be  traced;  in  fact,  it  seems  almost 
certain  that  it  was  pulled  down  in  the  carrying  out  of 
the  extensive  alterations  that  have  evidently  been 
made  in  the  neighbourhood.  It  has  been  frequently 
stated,  without  contradiction,  that  about  the  year  1787, 
Milton's  grave  in  Cripplegate  Church  was  ruthlessly 
violated,  his  corpse  made  a  show  for  several  days,  and 
his  hair,  and  even  his  teeth  sold  for  profit ;  it  is  even 
said  that  so  far  from  preventing  or  punishing  the 
evil-doers,  the  parish  authorities  shared  in  the  plunder ; 
we  cannot,  however,  but  think  the  statement  exagger- 
ated. It  could  be  wished  for  the  character  of  hu- 
manity, and  for  the  good  name  of  London,  that  there 
were  no  truth  in  the  matter,  but  the  fact  has  been  so 
persistently  maintained,  that  it  is  much  to  be  feared 
the  tomb  has  suffered  some  violence,  more  or  less. 

For  many  years  no  memorial  was  raised  in  Milton's 
commemoration.  At  length,  in  1737,  one  was  placed 
in  Westminster  Abbey,  at  the  expense  of  Mr.  Benson, 
of  the  Imprest  or  Recruiting  office.  In  1773  a  monu- 
mental bust  by  Bacon  was  placed  near  the  grave  in 
Cripplegate  Church,  at  the  cost  of  the  first  Samuel 
Whitbread,  the  eminent  brewer;  and  about  the  year 
1868,  a  brass  and  a  bas-relief  was  put  by  Mr.  Bassing- 
ham  in  the  same  church.  It  may  be  interesting  to  name 
that  the  same  edifice  that  holds  Milton's  body,  contains 
also  the  ashes  of  Foxe,  the  author  of  the  '  Book  of  Mar- 
tyrs/ and  Speed  the  historian,  with  a  tablet  to  the  me- 
mory of  the  former,  and  an  effigy  of  the  latter.  It  was  in 
this  church  also,  which  escaped  the  great  fire  of  Lon- 
don, that  Oliver  Cromwell  was  married  to  Elizabeth 
Boucher,  and  the  churchyard  contains  the  most  per- 


BIOGRAPHY.  235- 

feet  specimen  that  exists  of  a  bastion,  and  a  fragment 
of  the  old  wall  of  London.  In  1868,  a  poem  was  dis- 
covered by  Professor  Henry  Morley,  written  on  the- 
fly-leaf  of  a  book  of  Milton' s  Poems  in  the  British 
Museum.  The  poem  was  dated  1647,  and  signed 
J.  M.,  which,  together  with  the  character  of  the  hand- 
writing, induced  the  belief  that  it  was  a  veritable  un- 
published production  of  the  great  Milton,  and  that  he 
had  written  it  for  his  own  epitaph.  The  learned  at 
the  time  of  the  discovery  were  much  troubled  about  it, 
and  although  savans  are  still  divided  in  opinion,  we- 
yet  think  it  desirable  to  give  the  composition  a  place 
here.  The  poem  referred  to  is  as  follows  : — 

"  An  Epitaph. 

He  whom  heaven  did  call  away 
Out  of  this  hermitage  of  clay, 
Has  left  some  reliques  in  this  urn, 
As  a  pledge  of  his  return. 

Meanwhile  the  Muses  do  deplore 
The  loss  of  this,  their  paramour, 
With  whom  he  sported  ere  the  day 
Budded  forth  its  tender  ray. 
And  now  Apollo  leaves  his  lays 
And  puts  on  cypress  for  his  bays  ; 
The  sacred  sisters  tune  their  quills 
Only  to  the  blubbering  rills, 
And  while  his  doom  they  think  upon, 
Make  their  own  tears  their  Helicon ; 
Leaving  the  two-topt  Mount  divine 
To  turn  votaries  to  his  shrine. 
Think  not,  reader,  me  less  blest, 
Sleeping  in  this  narrow  chest, 
Than  if  my  ashes  did  lie  hid 
Under  some  stately  pyramid. 
If  a  rich  tomb  makes  happy,  then 
That  bee  was  happier  far  than  men, 
Who,  busy  in  the  thymy  wood, 
Was  fettered  by  the  golden  flood, 
Which  from  the  amber- weeping  tree 
Distilleth  down  so  plenteously ; 
For  so  this  little  wanton  elf 
Most  gloriously  enshrined  itself. 
A  tomb  whose  beauty  might  compare 
With  Cleopatra's  sepulchre. 


236  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

In  this  little  bed  my  dust 

Incurtained  round  I  here  intrust ; 

While  my  more  pure  and  noble  part 

Lies  entomb'd  in  every  heart. 

Then  pass  on  gently,  ye  that  mourn, 

Touch  not  this,  my'hallowed  urn ; 

These  ashes  which  do  here  remain 

A  vital  tincture  still  retain  ; 

A  seminal  form  within  the  deeps 

Of  this  little  chaos  sleeps ; 

The  thread  of  life  untwisted  is 

Into  its  first  existences  ; 

Infant  nature  cradled  here 

In  its  principles  appear. 

This  plant,  though  entered  into  dust, 

In  its  ashes  rest  it  must 

Until  sweet  Psyche  shall  inspire 

A  softening  and  setific  fire, 

And  in  her  fostering  arms  enfold 

This  heavy  and  this  earthly  mould. 

Then  as  I  am  I'll  be  no  more 

But  bloom  and  blossom  (as)  (before) 

When  this  cold  numbness  shall  retreat, 

By  a  more  than  chymick  heat. 

J.  3L,  Ober.  1647." 

We  cannot  quit  this  biography  without  referring  to 
a  subject  of  considerable  importance:  Arians,  and 
those  of  various  shades  of  opinion,  who  dissent  from 
the  Christian  tenet  of  the  Unity  in  Trinity  of  the  God- 
head, have  been  much  elated  by  the  discovery  of  a 
document,  supposed  to  have  been  written  by  Milton, 
entitled  '  A  Treatise  on  Christian  Doctrine/  This 
manuscript,  written  in  Latin,  was  found  in  1823,  by 
Mr.  Leman,  in  the  State  Paper  Office,  together  with 
corrected  copies  of  some  of  Milton's  foreign  dispatches, 
and  several  papers  relating  to  the  Popish  trials  and 
the  Rye  House  Plot,  the  whole  wrapped  in  an  envelope 
addressed  '  to  Mr.  Skinner,  Merchant/  the  well-known 
friend  of  Milton. 

The  first  question  that  suggests  itself  in  connection 
with  this  matter  is,  how  the  parcel  came  to  be  in 
the  State  Paper  Office,  as  Milton  had  no  connec- 
tion with  that  establishment  for  more  than  thirteen 
years  before  the  time  when  the  '  Treatise  on  Christian 
Doctrine '  is  supposed  to  have  been  written. 


BIOGRAPHY.  237 

We  imagine,  however,  that  the  answer  to  this  query 
must  be  taken  to  be  that  Cyriack  Skinner,  thinking  the 
papers  of  national  importance,  felt  it  right  to  transmit 
them  after  Milton's  death  to  the  public  archives.  But 
we  are  still  at  a  loss  to  know  how  any  government 
official  could  be  brought  to  think  a  manuscript  of  a 
purely  theological  nature  to  be  a  diplomatic  document, 
and  as  such  to  admit  it  to  a  place  among  the  public 
records.  The  only  evidence  for  the  genuineness  of  the 
book  is  its  resemblance  to  Milton's  well-known  style ; 
and  although  we  cannot  see  that  this  is  a  sufficient 
ground  for  the  conclusion,  yet  as  it  is  generally  re- 
ceived by  the  learned  as  an  emanation  of  the  poet's 
brain  during  the  last  years  of  his  life,  we  must  accept 
it  as  such,  although  with  considerable  doubt. 

The  e  Treatise  on  Christian  Doctrine '  was  published 
in  1825,  by  command  of  George  the  Fourth,  the  trans- 
lation being  entrusted  to  Charles  Richard  Sumner, 
D.D.,  then  his  Majesty's  librarian,  one  of  the  Royal 
chaplains,  and  a  Canon  of  Canterbury  Cathedral,  and 
subsequently  Bishop  of  Winchester.  Both  the  Latin 
and  the  English  copies  were  included  in  the  volume. 
The  treatise,  in  the  opinion  of  most  critics,  attests  the 
Arianism  of  its  author,  defends  the  sentiments  Milton  is 
well  known  to  have  adopted  on  the  subject  of  divorce ; 
advocates  polygamy  and  anthropomorphism,  or  the 
belief  of  Deity  in  human  form,  after  the  manner  of  the 
Greek  mythologists.  It  also  supports  the  theory  of  the 
eternity  of  matter,  and  contends  for  the  abrogation  of 
the  Sabbath.  On  the  whole,  the  work  has  disappointed 
the  admirers  of  Milton.  It  has  few  claims  to  originality 
either  of  thought  or  expression ;  it  was  looked  for  with 
avidity,  but  it  will  ever  be  read,  we  are  persuaded, 
with  doubt,  by  those  who  are  at  all  acquainted  with 
the  subjects  of  which  it.  treats.  Altogether  the  book 
presents  to  our  view  the  melancholy  exhibition  of  a  great 
prostrate  intellect  struggling  in  the  fetters  of  various 
and  contradictory  systems  of  theology,  in  an  ambitious 


•238  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

endeavour  to  make  a  new  religion,  but  if  at  all  accom- 
plishing the  object,  only  succeeding  in  making  one 
worse  than  any  of  those  it  is  intended  to  supplant. 

That  Milton,  who  had  ever  contended  so  firmly  for 
the  essential  doctrines  of  evangelical  truth,  should  have 
had  his  vast  intellect  so  overcome  by  disease  as  to  have 
been  capable  of  producing  such  absurdities  as  those 
just  named,  is  pitiable  indeed,  and  it  is  another  warn- 
ing to  mankind  not  to  trust  their  happiness  in  this 
world,  or  their  salvation  in  the  next,  to  the  direction  of 
any  human  being,  however  lofty  his  powers.  But  we 
gladly  turn  from  what  Milton  is  supposed  to  have 
written  when  his  whole  system  was  racked  with  pain, 
and  prostrated  with  weakness,  to  his  productions  under 
more  happy  auspices ;  and  as  a  great  deal  has  been 
made  of  what  he  is  imagined  to  have  said  against  the 
Trinity,  attention  is  now  especially  directed  to  what  he 
wrote  on  the  same  subject  in  '  Paradise  Lost'  and 
1  Paradise  Regained/  a  few  of  which  passages  are  sub- 
joined : — 

"  On  his  right 

The  radiant  image  of  his  glory  sat, 
His  only  Son ;" — Paradise  Lost,  book  iii.  1.  62-64. 

"  Thus  to  his  only  Son  foreseeing  spake  : 

'  Only  begotten  Son,  seest  thou  what  rage 
Transports  our  adversary  ? '  "— Ib.  1.  79-81. 

"  Beyond  compare  the  Son  of  God  was  seen 
Most  glorious  :  in  him  all  his  Father  shone 
Substantially  express'd ;"— Ib.  1.  138-140. 

"  By  merit  more  than  birthright  Son  of  God ;" — Ib.  1.  309. 

"  Hail,  Son  of  God,  Saviour  of  men  !     Thy  name 
Shall '     - 


Henceforth,  and  never  shall  my  harp  thy  praise 

Forget,  nor  from  thy  Father's  praise  disjoin." — Ib.  1. 412-415. 

"  This  day  I  have  begot  whom  I  declare 
My  only  Son."— Ib.  book  v.  1.  603-604. 

" '  Son,  thou  in  whom  my  glory  I  behold 
In  full  resplendence,  heir  of  all  my  might/' — Ib.  1.  719,  720. 


BIOGRAPHY.  239 

"  Canst  thou  with  impious  obloquy  condemn 
The  just  decree  of  God,  pronounced  and  sworn, 
That  to  his  only  Son,  by  right  indued 
With  regal  sceptre,  every  soul  in  heaven 
Shall  bend  the  knee,  and  in  that  honour  due 
Confess  him  rightful  king  ?"— Ib.  1.  813-818. 

"  Dost  thou  count, 
Or  all  angelic  natures  join'd  in  one, 
Equal  to  Him  begotten  Son  ?  by  whom, 
As  by  His  word,  the  Mighty  Father  made 
All  things,  even  thee :  and  all  the  spirits  of  heaven." — Ib.  1. 
833-837. 

"  Thou  Spirit,  who  ledst  this  glorious  eremite 
Into  the  desert,  his  victorious  field, 
Against  the  spiritual  foe,  and  brought'st  him  thence 
By  proof  the  undoubted  Son  of  God,  inspire, 
As  thou  are  wont,  my  prompted  song,  else  mute." — Paradise 

Regained,  book  i.  1.  8-12. 

"Gabriel,  this  day  by  proof  thou  shalt  behold, 
Thou  and  all  angels  conversant  on  earth 
With  man  or  men's  affairs,  how  I  begin 
To  verify  that  solemn  message,  late 
On  which  I  sent  thee  to  the  virgin  pure 
In  Galilee,  that  she  should  bear  a  Son 
Great  in  renown,  and  call'd  the  Son  of  God  ; 
Thou  toldst  her,  doubting  how  these  things  could  be 
To  her  a  virgin,  that  on  her  should  come 
The  Holy  Ghost,  and  the  power  of  the  Highest 
O'ershadow  her."— Ib.  1.  129-139. 

"  By  voice  from  heaven 

Heard  thee  pronounced  the  Son  of  God  beloved." — Ib.  book 
iv.  1.  512,  513. 

Any  comparison  of  the  foregoing  extracts  with  the 
doubtful  treatise  ascribed  to  Milton  would  be  quite  out 
of  place.  We  must,  nevertheless,  say  that  whoever  can 
prefer  the  absurdities  about  polygamy,  the  destruction 
of  the  Sabbath,  the  heathen  mythology,  and  the  Arian 
creed  contained  in  the  so-called  '  Treatise  on  Christian 
Doctrine/  to  the  sublime  observations  here  quoted,  is  to 
be  pitied  indeed.  The  last  known  survivor  of  Milton's 
family  was  his  granddaughter,  named  Elizabeth  Foster, 
who  in  1750  kept  a  chandler's  shop  at  Holloway,  and  for 
whose  benefit  the  '  Mask  of  Comus '  was  performed  at 


240  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

Drury  Lane  Theatre,  at  the  instigation  of  Dr.  Johnson, 
who  not  only  wrote  a  prologue  for  the  occasion,  but 
also  sent  the  following  letter  to  the  f  General  Adver- 
tizer/  viz. : — 

"  Sir, — That  a  certain  degree  of  reputation  is  ac- 
quired merely  by  appro ving  the  works  of  genius,  and 
testifying  a  regard  to  the  memory  of  authors,  is  a  truth 
too  evident  to  be  denied ;  and,  therefore,  to  ensure  a 
participation  of  fame  with  a  celebrated  poet,  many  who 
would,  perhaps,  have  contributed  to  starve  him  when 
alive,  have  heaped  expensive  pageants  upon  his  grave. 
It  must,  indeed,  be  confessed  that  this  method  of  becom- 
ing known  to  posterity  with  honour  is  peculiar  to  the 
great,  or  at  least  to  the  wealthy;  but  an  opportunity 
now  offers  for  almost  every  individual  to  secure  the 
praise  of  paying  a  just  regard  to  the  illustrious  dead, 
united  with  the  pleasure  of  doing  good  to  the  living. 
To  assist  industrious  indigence,  struggling  with  dis- 
tress, and  debilitated  by  age,  is  a  display  of  virtue,  and 
an  acquisition  of  happiness  and  honour. 

"  Whoever,  then,  would  be  thought  capable  of  plea- 
sure in  reading  the  works  of  our  incomparable  Milton, 
and  not  so  destitute  of  gratitude  as  to  refuse  to  lay  out 
a  trifle  in  rational  and  elegant  entertainment,  for  the 
benefit  of  his  living  remains,  for  the  exercise  of  their 
own  virtue,  the  increase  of  their  reputation,  and  the 
pleasing  consciousness  of  doing  good,  should  appear  at 
Drury  Lane  Theatre  to-morrow,  April  5,  when  '  Comus* 
will  be  performed,  for  the  benefit  of  Mrs.  Elizabeth 
Foster,  granddaughter  to  the  author,  and  the  only  sur- 
viving branch  of  his  family. 

"  N.B.  There  will  be  a  new  prologue  on  the  occasion, 
written  by  the  author  of  '  Irene,'  and  spoken  by  Mr. 
Garrick ;  and,  by  particular  desire,  there  will  be  added 
to  the  Masque  a  dramatick  satire,  called  '  Lethe/  in 
which  Mr.  Garrick  will  perform." 

It  is  remarkable  that  Milton  produced  his  greatest 
works  after  having  been  blind  for  several  years.  Some 


BIOGRAPHY.  241 

writers,  indeed,  have  tried  to  make  it  appear  that  he 
wrote  the  greater  part  of  '  Paradise  Lost '  while  yet 
possessing  sight,  but  for  this  assumption  there  is  not 
the  smallest  ground,  and  its  being  advanced  is  not  at 
all  creditable  to  its  authors. 

Milton,  having  possessed  vision  for  more  than  forty- 
four  years,  was  enabled  to  collect  a  mass  of  informa- 
tion of  a  kind  that  never  could  have  been  obtained 
by  any  one  blind  from  infancy ;  but  there  is  every  reason 
to  believe  that  if  he  had  not  lived  for  the  last  twenty- 
two  years  of  his  life  in  a  darkened  state,  the  best  fruits 
of  his  labours  would  have  been  lost  to  mankind. 
If  he  had  been  able  to  see,  it  is  probable  he  might 
not  have  been  pardoned  by  the  king;  or  his  ardent 
spirit  might  have  induced  him  to  follow  the  ex- 
ample of  so  many  of  his  compeers,  and  seek  a  home 
in  New  England.  He  might,  again,  have  had  the  oppor- 
tunity, and  have  been  content,  to  have  remained  in  the 
land  of  his  forefathers,  but  his  love  of  political  life 
would  certainly  have  been  a  snare  to  him.  If  bent  on 
retiring  from  public  view,  and  devoting  himself  exclu- 
sively to  the  peaceful  walks  of  literature,  the  desire  to 
carry  out  his  dictionary  and  history  of  England  would 
have  interfered  greatly  with  his  poetical  genius.  As  a 
sighted  man,  he  would  not  have  possessed  the  powers 
of  concentration  necessary  to  enable  him  to  produce  the 
inimitable  '  Paradise  Lost '  and  '  Paradise  Regained/ 
In  a  word,  Milton  would  never  have  been  what  he  was 
unless  he  had  possessed  the  advantages  arising  from 
the  possession  of  sight,  and  also  those  which  spring 
from  blindness,  and  it  must  be  generally  admitted  that 
the  world  has  only  seen  one  other  author  at  all  equal  to 
Milton,  viz.  Homer;  and  he,  too,  was  without  sight. 
Under  these  circumstances,  the  blind  in  all  ages  have 
a  right  to  expect  to  receive  from  their  seeing  brethren 
a  fair  opportunity  for  the  development  of  the  abilities 
which  God,  in  his  infinite  mercy,  has  vouchsafed  to 
them. 


242  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

De  Valbonais,  the  Historian. 

Bourchenu  de  Valbonais  was  born  at  Grenoble,  in 
the  south  of  France,  in  1651,  and  was  present  when 
twenty-one  years  of  age  at  the  indecisive  naval  en- 
gagement of  Solbaye,  fought  between  the  English  and 
French  on  the  one  side,  and  the  Dutch  on  the  other, 
soon  after  which  battle  he  lost  his  sight.  This  cala- 
mity, however,  while  it  cut  him  off  from  warlike  pur- 
suits, did  not  prevent  his  embarking  in  literary  under- 
takings. He  published  a  history  of  Dauphiuay  in  two 
volumes  folio,  and  also  a  compilation  of  the  genealogies 
of  the  nobility  of  that  province.  It  is  to  be  regretted 
that  more  is  not  known  of  his  life ;  but  the  above  cir- 
cumstances are  deemed  of  sufficient  importance  to  be 
recorded  here. 

Nicholas  Saunderson,  LL.D.,  F.R.8. 

This  eminent  mathematician  and  natural  philoso- 
pher, was  born  at  Thurlston,  in  Yorkshire,  in  1682, 
eight  years  after  the  death  of  Milton.  Before  the  age 
of  one  year  Nicholas  was  attacked  with  small-pox, 
which  not  only  deprived  him  of  sight,  but  also  de- 
stroyed his  eye-balls.  His  father  was  in  comfortable 
circumstances,  being  in  the  excise  and  having  a  small 
private  property.  A  large  family,  however,  pre- 
vented his  incurring  any  considerable  expense  on 
account  of  his  son  Nicholas ;  he  nevertheless  did  all 
that  he  could  for  him,  and  finding  that  he  had  a  taste 
for  figures,  he  early  initiated  him  into  the  details  of 
mental  arithmetic,  in  which  the  blind  son  made  such 
progress  that  he  soon  excelled  his  father. 

When  quite  young,  he  was  sent  to  the  free  school  of 
Penniston,  in  which  parish  Thurlstone  is  situated. 
Here  he  acquired  the  knowledge  of  the  Greek  and 
Latin  authors,  and  obtained  that  familiarity  with 

r*  ';ed  persons  of  his  own  age,  which  fitted  him  in 
life  to  pass  through  society  without  diffidence  or 


BIOGRAPHY.  243 

embarrassment,  and  to  conduct  himself  with  that  easy 
self-reliance  which  tends  so  much  to  procure  success 
in  life.  At  the  age  of  eighteen  he  had  the  good  for- 
tune to  attract  the  notice  of  a  gentleman  of  property, 
R.  "West,  Esq.,  of  Underbank,  who  was  so  much  in- 
terested in  young  Saunderson  that  he  himself  gave 
him  lessons  in  algebra  and  geometry.  Dr.  Nettleton 
also  devoted  much  time  to  the  development  of  the 
faculties  of  the  blind  student ;  and  by  the  kindness  of 
these  two  gentlemen  in  reading  to  him,  Saunder- 
son became  acquainted  with  the  writings  of  the  best 
authors  on  mathematics  and  natural  philosophy.  He 
went  for  a  short  time  to  a  private  academy  at  Atter- 
cliff,  near  Sheffield,  to  study  logic  and  metaphysics ; 
but  these  subjects  not  suiting  his  taste,  he  left  that 
establishment,  and  had  as  many  of  his  favourite 
works  read  at  home  as  circumstances  would  permit. 
Some  friends  having  noticed  the  felicitous  way  in 
which  Saunderson  was  accustomed  to  illustrate  the 
subjects  on  which  he  conversed,  proposed  that  he 
should  go  to  Cambridge,  and  give  lectures  to  the 
students  in  mathematics  and  philosophy.  This  plan 
was  eventually  carried  out,  and  at  the  age  of  twenty- 
five  we  find  Saunderson  in  company  with  his  friend 
Joshua  Dunn  (a  fellow  commoner  of  Christ's  Col- 
lege) at  the  ancient  seat  of  learning,  offering  him- 
self as  a  preceptor  to  the  candidates  for  university 
honours.  Whiston  was  at  that  time  the  Professor  of 
Mathematics,  and  it  might  well  have  been  thought 
that  any  interference  with  the  privileges  connected 
with  his  office  would  have  met  with  some  resentment, 
but  no  sooner  was  Saunderson's  object  made  known  to 
him,  than  he  with  great  generosity  expressed  his  ap- 
proval of  the  plan.  Saunderson,  although  not  admitted 
as  a  member  of  any  educational  establishment,  was 
treated  with  great  respect ;  he  was  allowed  a  chamber 
in  Christ's  College  and  granted  free  access  to  the 
library. 

E  2 


244  BLINDNESS  AND   THE   BLIND. 

It  can  be  well  imagined  what  effect  the  announce- 
ment that  a  blind  man  was  about  to  lecture  on  optics 
would  have  on  Cambridge  students,  and  accordingly 
we  find  that  from  the  first,  Saunderson' s  lectures  were 
attended  by  crowds  of  eager  listeners.  The  subject 
of  his  discourses  was  the  'Principia  Mathematica — 
Arithmetica  Universalis'  of  Sir  Isaac  Newton.  It 
may  appear  impossible  that  any  one  blind  from  infancy 
should  be  able  to  give  an  accurate  description  of  the 
science  of  optics  (or  the  laws  which  govern  the  sense 
of  sight),  as  a  knowledge  of  light  and  colour  seems 
to  be  essential  for  the  performance  of  such  a  task ;  but 
when  it  is  remembered  that  optics  is  entirely  based 
on  mathematics,  and  that  it  is  taught  by  the  theory 
of  lines,  it  can  be  easily  understood  how  any  one 
without  vision,  possessed  of  the  necessary  mental 
qualifications,  may  understand  the  principles  and 
demonstrate  to  others  the  laws  of  this  science. 

While  thus  employed  in  explaining  the  Newtonian 
philosophy,  Saunderson  had  the  honour  of  being  intro- 
duced to  its  illustrious  founder.  He  was  also  inti- 
mately acquainted  with  the  other  eminent  mathemati- 
cians, Halley,  Cotes,  and  De  Moivre.  On  the  expulsion 
of  Whiston  from  Cambridge,  on  a  charge  of  Arianism, 
the  influential  members  of  the  university  endeavoured 
to  obtain  the  appointment  of  Saunderson  to  the  va- 
cant chair,  but  as  the  professorship  could  not  be  held 
by  any  one  who  had  not  obtained  a  degree,  a  pe- 
tition was  presented  to  the  Crown  supported  by  the 
influence  of  Sir  Isaac  Newton,  praying  that  a  degree 
might  be  conferred  on  Saunderson  by  royal  prero- 
gative, which  led  to  his  being  created  a  Master  of 
Arts,  by  Queen  Anne,  in  1711,  and  to  his  installation 
as  Lucasian  Professor  of  Mathematics  in  the  Univer- 
sity of  Cambridge,  which  important  event  occurred 
when  he  was  twenty-nine  years  of  age.  His  inaugural 
speech  was  in  classical  Latin,  after  the  style  of  Cicero, 
of  whose  works  he  possessed  considerable  knowledge. 


BIOGRAPHY.  245 

In  1723,  Saunderson  entered  into  the  marriage  state, 
by  being  united  to  a  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Dickens, 
rector  of  Boxworth,  seven  miles  from  Cambridge,  and 
the  fruit  of  this  marriage  were  a  son  and  daughter,  both 
of  whom  survived  their  father. 

When  George  II.  visited  Cambridge,  in  1728,  the 
year  after  his  accession  to  the  throne,  he  sent  for 
Saunderson  to  the  senate  house,  and  created  him 
Doctor  in  Laws.  This  honourable  title  our  blind  pro- 
fessor adorned  by  his  labours,  his  time  and  thoughts 
being  wholly  absorbed  in  the  discharge  of  his  duties 
at  the  university ;  and  it  may  be  mentioned  that  he  was 
admitted  a  Fellow  of  the  Eoyal  Society  in  1736.  There 
were  many  things  said  of  Saunderson,  such  as  his  being 
able  to  perceive  objects  at  a  distance,  and  to  tell  when 
a  cloud  overshadowed  the  horizon,  which  appeared 
miraculous  to  the  narrators,  but  which  were  in  reality 
only  such  powers  as  are  exercised  by  many  intelligent 
blind  persons,  for  an  inquiry  into  which  subject  the 
reader  is  referred  to  the  part  of  this  work  that  treats 
of  the  corporeal  senses. 

Saunderson  played  well  on  the  flute  and  had  a  very 
correct  musical  ear,  being  able  to  distinguish  a  varia- 
tion as  small  as  the  fifth  of  a  tone.  Among  the  re- 
sults of  his  life  may  be  mentioned  a  tangible  arith- 
metical apparatus,  which,  although  invented  simply 
for  his  own  use,  has  proved  the  germ  from  which  have 
been  formed  the  various  appliances  for  arithmetic  now 
used  by  the  blind.  He  wrote  a  work  on  algebra, 
which  was  published  in  1740.  In  1756,  was  printed 
his  book  on  fluxions  and  Newton's  '  Principia/  by  the 
University  of  Cambridge,  and  to  him  also  belongs  the 
discovery  of  the  division  of  the  cube  into  six  equal 
pyramids,  having  their  apices  at  the  centre  of  the 
cube,  and  their  bases  at  the  surface,  which  serves  to 
demonstrate  very  simply  that  every  pyramid  is  the 
third  of  a  prism  of  the  same  base  and  height.  It  is 
to  be  regretted  that  Saunderson' s  studies  should 


246  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

have  led  him  exclusively  to  the  consideration  of 
material  things,  and  thus  (although  his  powers  of  cal- 
culation were  wonderfully  great)  he  does  not  appear  to 
have  possessed  sufficient  intelligence  to  induce  him  to 
raise  his  thoughts  from  the  contemplation  of  nature  to 
nature's  God.  The  theory  of  numbers  was  his  deity, 
and  he  worshipped  it  with  all  his  soul.  Under  these  cir- 
cumstances it  is  not  surprising  to  find  it  recorded  that 
he  was  "  rather  to  be  admired  as  a  man  of  genius  and 
assiduity  than  to  be  esteemed  for  his  amiable  qualities. " 
He  was  imperious  in  temper,  and  given  to  violent 
bursts  of  passion.  So  little  indeed  did  he  value  the 
great  blessings  vouchsafed  to  him,  that  on  his  death- 
bed he  challenged  the  justice  of  God  in  having  de- 
prived him  of  sight.  Had  his  parents  and  friends 
paid  more  attention  to  his  spiritual  welfare,  or  had 
Saunderson  possessed  a  Bible  in  relief  print,  it  is  pro- 
bable that  the  great  mathematician  would  also  have- 
been  an  humble  and  a  sincere  Christian,  but  as  it  was, 
he  was  a  poor  materialist,  an  eminent  one  it  is  true, 
but  still  only — a  materialist. 

Saunderson's  constitution  was  naturally  vigorous, 
but  sedentary  pursuits  brought  on  numbness  in  his 
limbs,  from  which  he  suffered  for  several  years ;  at 
length,  in  1739,  mortification  attacked  one  of  his 
feet,  and  his  blood  was  so  vitiated  by  scurvy,  that  no 
aid  could  be  obtained  from  medicine.  On  being  in- 
formed of  the  near  approach  of  death,  he  was  silent 
for  a  time,  but  soon  resumed  his  accustomed  manner, 
His  friends  feeling  that  his  days  in  this  world  would 
be  very  few,  requested  the  Rev.  Dr.  Holmes  to  have 
some  conversation  with  him  on  religion,  which  he  gladly 
consented  to  do,  and  in  consequence  Saunderson 
and  the  doctor  entered  into  a  discussion  upon 
the  existence  of  God,  the  clergyman  beginning 
by  an  allusion  to  the  wonders  of  nature,  when  the 
mathematician  replied :  —  "0  Sir !  do  not  talk  of 
that  magnificent  scene  which  was  never  presented  to 


BIOGRAPHY.  247 

me.  I  have  been  condemned  to  pass  all  my  life  in 
darkness,  and  you  talk  to  me  of  marvels  which  I  do  not 
understand,  and  which  prove  nothing  except  to  you, 
and  to  those  who,  like  you,  can  see  them.  If  you 
wish  that  I  should  believe  in  a  God,  you  must  make 
me  touch  him/' — "  Sir,"  replied  the  minister,  "  place 
your  hand  upon  your  own  body,  and  you  will  feel  the 
divinity  of  God  in  the  wonderful  mechanism  of  your 
organs."  On  Saunderson  still  further  expressing  his 
disbelief,  the  clergyman  reminded  him  of  the  Chris- 
tianity of  Newton,  Leibnitz,  Clarke,  and  other  men  of 
high  genius,  when  Saunderson  acknowledged  that  it 
was  indeed  presumptuous  to  deny  what  Newton  ad- 
mitted ;  he,  however,  represented  to  the  minister  that 
the  evidence  of  Newton  could  not  be  so  convincing  to 
him  as  that  of  all  nature  was  to  Newton.  Having  over- 
exerted himself  in  this  interview,  Saunderson  sank 
into  a  delirium  for  several  hours,  and  he  aroused  only 
enough  to  cry  with  a  dying  voice :  "  Oh,  God  of 
Clarke  and  Newton,  have  mercy  upon  me  ! " 

It  is  refreshing  to  turn  from  this  picture,  and  re- 
flect that  the  temporal  and  eternal  happiness  which 
this  philosopher  failed  to  obtain,  is  within  the  reach  of 
the  poorest  and  most  afflicted  of  our  countrymen,  and 
that  while  the  blind  of  the  present  day  have  Saunder- 
son for  an  example  of  patient  perseverance  and  un- 
daunted courage,  they  have  him  also  as  a  great  warn- 
ing of  how  little  worldly  success  can  do  to  promote 
happiness  here,  or  hope  of  bliss  hereafter.  Surely  he 
who  reproaches  his  Maker  is  sunk  in  deep  depravity, 
whatever  his  secular  attainments  may  be.  Saunder- 
son died  in  the  fifty-seventh  year  of  his  age,  and  was 
buried  by  his  own  request  in  the  chancel  of  Boxworth 
Church,  of  which  parish  it  may  be  remembered  his 
step-father  was  rector. 


248  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

Leonard  Euler,  Professor  of  Mathematics,  Member  of 
the  Imperial  Academy  of  St.  Petersburg,  Director  of 
the  Royal  Academy  of  Berlin,  Fellow  of  the  Royal 
Society  of  London,  and  Corresponding  Member  of 
the  Academy  of  Sciences,  Paris. 

This  celebrated  analyst  was  tlie  son  of  a  Protestant 
minister,  and  was  born  near  Basle  in  Switzerland  in 
1707,  the  same  year  as  that  in  which  Saunderson  com- 
menced lecturing  at  Cambridge. 

Euler  did  not  lose  his  sight  until  comparatively  late 
in  life ;  he  however,  showed  so  much  Christian  resig- 
nation, and  indomitable  perseverance  during  the 
seventeen  years  of  his  blindness,  that  his  memory 
should  not  be  forgotten  by  those  interested  in  the 
subject  of  which  this  work  treats.  After  having 
obtained  many  literary  honours,  Euler,  when  twenty- 
eight  years  of  age,  lost  the  sight  of  one  eye  from 
having  devoted  himself  too  ardently  to  study  in 
solving  a  problem  in  three  days,  which  eminent  ma- 
thematicians maintained  could  not  be  done  under 
several  months.  In  1766,  when  in  his  fifty -ninth  year, 
he  lost  the  use  of  the  other  eye,  and  became  totally 
blind;  after  the  lapse  of  twelve  years,  however,  he 
regained  his  sight  in  consequence  of  a  skilful  opera- 
tion by  Wentzell.  But  this  advantage  was  of  short 
duration,  as  owing  to  want  of  care  in  using  the  newly 
acquired  sense,  the  malady  returned,  and  he  soon 
became  hopelessly  blind.  Notwithstanding  this  heavy 
calamity  and  his  advanced  age,  Euler  did  not  despair 
of  still  being  useful  in  the  world.  He  set  about  writing 
a  book  on  algebra,  which,  by  the  aid  of  a  tailor's 
apprentice  for  an  amanuensis,  he  completed  with  entire 
success ;  and  it  is  said  that  about  this  time  his  memory 
became  stronger. 

In  1771,  our  blind  philosopher  nearly  fell  a  victim  to 
a  fire  which  destroyed  his  house,  but  his  life  was  saved 
by  the  courage  of  his  countryman  M.  Grimm,  who  bore 


BIOGRAPHY.  249 

him  from  the  premises.  Euler  after  his  blindness  wrote 
several  works  on  the  moon,  and  other  subjects  con- 
nected with  astronomical  and  mathematical  science.  He 
also  furnished  to  the  Academy  of  St.  Petersburg  for 
their  annual  memoirs,  papers  sufficiently  numerous  to 
extend  over  a  period  of  twenty  years.  In  these  labours 
he  had  the  assistance  of  his  son  and  of  Messrs.  Kraft  and 
Lexell,  without  the  use  of  whose  eyes  the  observance  of 
the  heavenly  bodies  of  which  he  wrote  would  have  been 
impossible.  The  accuracy  of  the  minute  calculations, 
and  the  soundness  of  the  deductions  made  by  Euler 
during  his  blindness,  have  won  the  admiration  of  the 
learned  of  his  own  day,  and  of  succeeding  generations. 
We  have  confined  our  observations  in  this  notice 
chiefly  to  matters  connected  with  Euler' s  life  during 
his  want  of  sight,  as  anything  like  a  history  of  his 
entire  labours  in  the  cause  of  science  would  be  foreign 
to  the  object  of  this  work.  On  the  7th  of  September, 
1 783,  after  some  calculations  on  the  motions  of  balloons 
(then  just  invented  in  France  by  MM.  Montgolfier), 
Euler  dined  with  Lexell,  and  conversed  on  the  newly 
discovered  planet  Herschel,  and  while  playing  with 
his  grandchild,  who  was  taking  tea,  he  expired  sud- 
denly, and  without  pain,  at  the  age  of  seventy-six. 

Euler' s  habits  of  life  were  strictly  religious,  the 
labours  of  each  day  being  closed  by  a  chapter  from 
the  Bible,  and  family  prayer. 

Thomas  Blacklock,  D.D. 

This  widely-known  scholar  and  poet  was  a  native  of 
Scotland,  being  born  at  Annan  in  Dumfriesshire,  No- 
vember 10th,  1721. 

He  was  of  English  descent,  his  parents  being 
natives  of  Cumberland.  His  father  was  by  trade  a 
bricklayer,  but  possessed  more  than  the  average  edu- 
cation of  his  class. 

Before  the  age  of  six  months,  Blacklock  became 
blind  from  smallpox,  and  a  few  years  later  we  find  his 


250  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

father  and  friends  reading  to  him  the  works  of  Mil- 
ton, Spenser,  Pope,  Addison,  and  Ramsay.  He 
very  early  acquired  some  knowledge  of  Latin,  and 
about  the  age  of  twelve,  wrote  his  first  poem,  which 
was  addressed  to  a  little  girl.  When  he  was  about 
nineteen,  his  sister  was  united  in  marriage  to  a  per- 
son of  superior  social  position,  which  circumstance  was 
eventually  of  great  service  to  our  young  author  in  pro- 
curing for  him  introductions  to  the  learned  and  influ- 
ential, but  although  the  ultimate  results  of  the  mar- 
riage were  beneficial,  its  early  history  was  clouded  by 
a  disaster  which  our  blind  poet  never  ceased  to  lament. 
The  elder  Blacklock  being  informed  that  a  malt-kiln, 
belonging  to  his  daughter's  husband,  was  giving  way, 
and  being  animated  with  a  desire  to  preserve  his 
relative's  property,  he  ventured  into  the  kiln  below 
the  ribs  to  ascertain  the  nature  and  extent  of  the  evil, 
when  suddenly  the  principal  beam  and  eighty  bushels  of 
malt  fell  upon  him,  and  in  one  moment  he  was  crushed 
to  death.  This  sad  occurrence  made  a  lasting  impression 
on  the  blind  son's  mind ;  as  he  possessed  an  exceed- 
ingly sensitive  nature,  and  as  his  father  ever  evinced 
the  most  lively  anxiety  for  his  welfare,  that  such  a 
calamity  should  have  plunged  him  into  the  deepest 
gloom,  which  returned  at  intervals  during  his  whole 
life,  can  be  easily  imagined.  There  is  one  point,  how- 
ever, in  which  the  father's  care  was  injurious.  Black- 
lock  was  never  allowed  ,to  walk  abroad  without  a 
guide,  and  this  had  much  to  do  in  producing  that 
timidity  of  manner  and  bodily  weakness  which  charac- 
terized him  in  later  years.  The  fond  affection  that 
Blacklock  bore  through  life  for  his  father  is  beauti- 
fully shown  in  the  following  lines  : — 

"  Where  now,  ah !  where  is  that  supporting  arm 
Which  to  my  weak  unequal  infant  steps 
Its  kind  assistance  lent  ?     Ah !  where  that  love, 
That  strong  assiduous  tenderness,  which  watch'd 
My  wishes,  yet  scarce  formed,  and  to  my  view 
Unimportun'd,  like  kind  indulgent  heav'n, 
The ir  objects  brought  ?     Ah !  where  that  gentle  voice, 


BIOGEAPHY.  251 

Which,  with  instruction,  soft  as  summer  dews 
Or  fleecy  snows,  descending  on  my  soul, 
Distinguish'd  every  hour  with  new  delight  ? 
All !  where  that  virtue,  which,  amid  the  storms, 
The  mingled  horrors  of  tumultuous  life, 
Untainted,  unsubdu'd,  the  shock  sustain'd  ? 
So  firm,  the  oak,  which,  in  eternal  night, 
As  deep  its  root  extends,  as  high  to  heaven 
Its  top  majestic  rises  :  such  the  smile 
Of  some  benignant  angel,  from  the  throne 
Of  G-od  dispatch'd,  ambassador  of  peace  ; 
Who,  on  his  look  impress'd,  his  message  bears, 
And,  pleas' d,  from  earth  averts  impending  ill." 

Soon  after  the  loss  of  his  father,  our  poet  at- 
tracted the  notice  of  Dr.  Stevenson,  of  Edinburgh, 
then  visiting  at  Dumfries.  This  kind-hearted  physician 
took  young  Blacklock  to  the  Scottish  capital,  and  in 
1741  placed  him  in  a  grammar  school,  where  he  pro- 
secuted his  studies  in  the  learned  languages  with  zeal 
and  success.  By  the  kindness  of  some  of  his  newly- 
made  friends,  the  blind  student  was  introduced  to  the 
family  of  the  Lord  Provost  Alexander.  The  wife  of 
this  chief  magistrate  was  a  native  of  France,  and  it 
was  Blacklock's  good  fortune  to  obtain  a  knowledge 
of  the  French  language  from  the  instruction  given  to- 
him  by  that  lady. 

When  in  1745  the  temporary  success  of  Charles 
Stuart  spread  alarm  through  the  kingdom,  Blacklock, 
in  common  with  his  fellow-students,  forsook  the  halls 
of  learning  and  returned  to  his  home.  Here,  however, 
he  was  not  idle,  for  in  addition  to  reading  various  au- 
thors he  wrote  several  pieces  and  made  a  collection  of 
his  poems,  which  was  published  at  Glasgow  in  1746. 
When  the  battle  of  Culloden  had  trailed  the  Stuart 
flag  in  the  dust,  and  blasted  for  ever  the  hopes  of  des- 
potism in  Britain,  our  poet  returned  to  Edinburgh, 
and  for  six  years  pursued  his  studies  with  unwearied 
assiduity  in  the  celebrated  university  of  that  city.  He 
made  himself  master  of  the  Greek,  Latin,  and  Italian 
languages,  and  was  also  thoroughly  skilled  in  divinity,, 
philosophy,  and  music.  A  second  edition  of  his. 


252  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

poems  was  published  in  Edinburgh,  in  1754,  and  an 
•edition  appeared  in  London  in  the  same  year,  with  a 
biographical  notice  of  the  author,  by  Mr.  Spence,  the 
Oxford  professor  of  poetry,  who  also  published  further 
editions  in  1756  and  1796.  An  edition  was  also 
issued,  edited  by  Mackenzie,  in  1793. 

The  Presbytery  of  Dumfries  in  1 759  licensed  Black- 
lock  as  a  preacher  of  the  Gospel  in  the  national  church 
of  Scotland,  and  many  sermons  were  preached  by  him 
which  received  great  commendation.  In  1762,  he 
married  Sarah,  the  daughter  of  Joseph  Johnson,  a 
surgeon  of  Dumfries,  and  a  short  time  after  he  was 
ordained  minister  at  Kirkcudbright,  to  which  benefice 
he  was  presented  by  the  Crown,  at  the  instance  of  the 
Earl  of  Selkirk.  This  nomination,  which  appeared  so 
promising,  was  attended  with  unfortunate  results.  The 
parishioners  disliked  Crown  nominations ;  they  had 
also  an  aversion  to  Lord  Selkirk,  and  they  vented  all 
their  indignation  on  the  nominee,  poor  Blacklock. 
They  complained  of  his  preaching,  tried  to  show  that 
blindness  disqualified  him  for  his  office,  and  carried  on 
the  contest  so  bitterly,  that  at  the  end  of  two  years 
our  poet  was  glad  to  compromise  the  matter  by  con- 
senting to  receive  a  small  annuity  in  consideration  of 
his  resigning  all  claim  with  regard  to  the  parish. 
Blacklock  now  returned  to  Edinburgh,  and  opened  his 
house  for  the  reception  of  a  few  young  gentlemen  as 
scholars  and  boarders.  The  success  which  attended 
him  as  an  instructor  of  youth  is  shown  by  the  circum- 
stance that  he  continued  the  management  of  his  aca- 
demy for  upwards  of  twenty-three  years.  By  the  in- 
terest of  Dr.  Beattie,  Blacklock  received,  in  1766  or 
1767,  the  degree  ofj  D.D.  from  Marischal  College, 
Aberdeen ;  and  here  it  may  be  observed  that  our  poet 
seems  to  have  been  very  fortunate  in  making  friends, 
who  were  able  and  willing  to  promote  his  interests,  and 
that  to  the  names  belonging  to  this  category  must  be 
added  the  important  one  of  Hume,  the  historian  ;  but 


BIOGRAPHY.  253 

although  cultivating  the  friendship  of  the  powerful, 
he  was  not  unmindful  of  those  whose  fortunes  were 
under  a  cloud ;  and  it  is  interesting  to  mark  in 
connection  with  this  branch  of  our  subject  what  a 
close  intimacy  existed  between  Blacklock  and  the 
poet  Burns.  Yes !  Blacklock  the  learned,  the  philo- 
sophic, the  religious,  and  the  scrupulously  moral,  was 
the  close  friend  of  Burns,  the  untutored,  the  rambling, 
the  careless  liver,  and  the  thriftless.  If  we  inquire 
what  were  the  bonds  which  united  two  such  opposite 
characters,  the  reply  is  not  hard  to  find ;  the  links 
that  joined  them  together  were  genius  and  the  love  of 
truth ;  and  it  can  easily  be  imagined  that  the  vigorous 
and  far-seeing  effusions  of  Burns,  coupled  as  they 
were  with  a  hatred  of  all  kinds  of  hypocrisy,  and  a 
tone  which  hurled  defiance  at  those  who  wished 
to  bridle  his  imagination,  must  have  made  a  deep  and 
lasting  impression  on  the  feeling  heart  of  our  blind 
author.  The  connection  that  subsisted  between  these 
two  remarkable  men  is  well  shown  in  the  lines  ad- 
dressed by  Burns  to  Blacklock,  of  which  the  following 
are  extracts : — 

To  Dr.  BlacMock,  Ellisland,  October  2lst,  1780. 

"  Wow !  *  but  your  letter  made  me  vauntie ! 
And  are  ye  hale,  and  weel,  and  cantie  ? 
I  kenn'd'it  still  your  wee  bit  j  auntie 

Wad  bring  ye  to  : 
Lord  send  you  aye  as  weel's  I  want  ye, 

And  then  ye'll  do. 
####*# 

"  But  what  d'ye  think,  my  trusty  fier,t 
I'm  turn'd  a  ganger — peace  be  here ! 
Parnassian  queans,  I  fear,  I  fear 
Ye'll  now  disdain  me ! 
And  then  my  fifty  pounds  a  year, 

Will  little  gain  me. 
"  Ye  glaikit,  gleesome/  dainty  damies, 
Wha,  by  Castalia's  wimplin'  streamies, 

*  An  exclamation  of  pleasure.  t  Brother. 


254  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

Lowp,  sing,  and  lave  your  pretty  limbies, 

Ye  ten,  ye  ken, 
That  strang  necessity  supreme  is, 

'Mang  sons  o'  men. 
"  I  hae  a  wife  and  twa  wee  laddies, 
They  maun  hae  brose  and  brats*  o'  duddies ; 
Ye  ken  yoursels  my  heart  right  proud  is — 

I  need  na  Taunt, 
But  I'll  snedf  besoms — thraw  saugh  woodies,t 

Before  they  want. 

"  Lord  help  me  thro'  this  world  o'  care ! 
I'm  weary  sick  o't  late  and  air  ! 
Not  but  I  hae  a  richer  share, 

Than  monie  ithers ; 
But  why  should  ae  man  better  fare, 

And  a'  men  brithers  ? 
"  Come,  firm  resolve,  take  thou  the  van, 
Thou  stalk  o'  carl  hemp,  in  man ! 
And  let  us  mind,  faint  heart  ne'er  wan 

A  lady  fair ; 
Wha  does  the  utmost  that  he  can, 

Will  whyles  do  mair. 
"  But  to  conclude  my  silly  rhyme, 
(I'm  scant  o'  verse,  and  scant  o*  time), 
To  make  a  happy  fireside  clime 

To  weans  and  wife, 
That's  the  true  pathos  and  sublime 

Of  human  life. 

"  My  compliments  to  sister  Beckie  ; 
And  eke  the  same  to  honest  Lucky, 
I  wat  she  is  a  daintie  chuckie, 
As  e'er  tread  clay  ! " 

Blacklock  deeply  sympathized  with  the  privations 
of  the  blind  poor,  and  ardently  longed  to  see  some- 
thing done  for  the  improvement  of  their  condition. 
Besides  writing  on  the  blind  in  the  article  in  the  '  En- 
cyclopaedia Britannica/  he  translated  from  the  French 
a  work  on  the  education  of  the  blind  by  the  celebrated 
Valentine  Haiiy,  the  founder  of  the  Paris  blind 
school.  He  also  frequently  expressed  to  Mr.  David 
Miller,  himself  blind,  and  to  other  gentlemen  of  Edin- 
burgh, his  wish  to  see  an  institution  for  the  sightless 

*  Rags  of  clothes.  t  kop.  J  Twist  willow  ropes. 


BIOGRAPHY.  255 

founded  in  that  city ;  and  although  no  establish- 
ment was  commenced  during  his  life,  yet  those  to 
whom  he  had  mentioned  his  wishes  eventually  suc- 
ceeded in  forming  an  institution  based  on  his  plan. 
This  establishment  was  designated  the  "  Edinburgh 
Asylum  for  the  Relief  of  the  Indigent  and  Industrious 
Blind/'  and  the  governors  of  that  institution  would 
do  themselves  credit  by  erecting  at  the  asylum  a  com- 
memorative bust,  or  some  other  suitable  memorial  of 
Blacklock,  who  was  not  only  the  originator  of  their 
institution,  but  was  also  the  greatest  blind  philo- 
sopher, poet,  divine,  and  instructor  of  youth,  that 
Scotland  ever  produced.  In  1787,  Blacklock  with- 
drew from  the  scholastic  profession,  and  lived  pri- 
vately for  four  years,  during  which  his  advanced 
age  and  feeble  health  prevented  his  accomplishing 
anything  of  importance.  He  died  in  Edinburgh  in 
1791,  in  the  seventieth  year  of  his  age,  after  a  week's 
illness  from  low  fever,  and"  was  interred  in  the  burying- 
ground  of  the  chapel  of  ease  of  St.  Cuthbert's 
parish,  where  his  widow,  who  survived  him  for  several 
years,  placed  a  modest  stone  to  his  memory.  Of  the 
excellent  disposition  of  this  worthy  man  much  has 
been  said,  and  we  think  that  the  insertion  in  this 
place  of  the  following  passage,  from  the  pen  of  Mr. 
Heron,  which  appeared  in  the  '  Edinburgh  Magazine,' 
will  convey  a  succinct  and  truthful  idea  of  his  cha- 
ractert.  The  writer  says,  "  There  was  perhaps  never 
one  among  all  mankind  whom  you  might  more  truly 
have  called  an  angel  upon  earth  than  Dr.  Black- 
lock.  He  was  guileless  and  innocent  as  a  child,  yet 
endowed  with  manly  sagacity  and  penetration.  His 
heart  was  a  perpetual  spring  of  overflowing  benignity. 
His  feelings  were  all  tremblingly  alive  to  the  sense 
of  the  sublime,  the  beautiful,  the  tender,  the  pious, 
the  virtuous ;  poetry  was  to  him  the  dear  solace  of 
perpetual  blindness;  cheerfulness,  even  to  gaiety  was, 
notwithstanding  that  irremediable  misfortune,  long 


256  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

the  predominant  colour  of  his  mind.  In  his  latter 
days,  when  the  gloom  might  otherwise  have  thickened 
around  him,  hope,  faith,  devotion,  the  most  fervent  and 
sublime,  exalted  his  mind  to  heaven,  and  made  him 
maintain  his  wonted  cheerfulness,  in  the  expectation 
of  a  speedy  dissolution." 

With  regard  to  the  descriptions  of  nature  that  occur 
in  Blacklock's  works,  a  great  deal  of  nonsense  has 
been  written,  some  persons  even  maintaining  that  the 
writer  was  a  prodigy ;  Dr.  Johnson,  however,  deals  so 
well  with  this  class  of  dreamers,  that  we  leave  them 
to  the  tender  mercies  of  that  great  critic.  Bos- 
well  says  that  Johnson  talked  of  Dr.  Blacklock's 
poetry  so  far  as  it  was  descriptive  of  visible  objects ; 
and  observed  that,  "  as  its  author  had  the  misfortune 
to  be  blind,  we  may  be  absolutely  sure  that  such  pas- 
sages are  combinations  of  what  he  had  remembered  of 
other  writers  who  could  see."  Johnson  further  re- 
marked, "  That  foolish  fellow  Spence  has  laboured  to 
explain  philosophically  how  Blacklock  may  have  done, 
by  means  of  his  own  faculties,  what  it  is  impossible 
he  should  do.  The  solution  as  I  have  given  it,  is 
plain :  suppose  I  know  a  man  to  be  lame,  that  he  is 
absolutely  incapable  to  move  himself,  and  I  find  him 
in  a  different  room  from  that  in  which  I  left  him; 
shall  I  puzzle  myself  with  idle  conjectures,  that  per- 
haps his  nerves  have,  by  some  unknown  change,  all  at 
once  become  effective  ?  No  !  Sir !  It  is  clear  how  he 
got  into  a  different  room,  he  was  carried !  " 

As  a  specimen  of  Blacklock's  compositions,  we  think 
it  desirable  to  insert  the  following  beautiful  verses, 
which,  in  addition  to  showing  the  genius  of  the  poet, 
also  evince  the  goodness  of  his  heart : — 

A  Hymn  to  Benevolence. 

"  Hail !  source  of  transport,  ever  new ; 
Whilst  thy  kind  dictates  I  pursue, 

I  taste  a  joy  sincere ; 
Too  vast  for  little  minds  to  know, 


BIOGRAPHY.  257 


Who  on  themselves  alone  bestow 
Their  wishes  and  their  care. 

"  Daughter  of  God  !  delight  of  man ! 
From  thee  felicity  began ; 

Which  still  thy  hand  sustains : 
By  thee  sweet  Peace  her  empire  spread, 
Fair  Science  raised  her  laurel'd  head, 

And  Discord  gnash'd  in  chains. 

"  Far  as  the  pointed  sunbeam  flies, 
Through  peopled  earth  and  starry  skies, 

All  nature  owns  thy  nod  : 
We  see  thy  energy  prevail 
Through  Being's  ever  rising  scale, 
From  nothing  ev'n  to  God. 

"  Envy,  that  tortures  her  own  heart 
With  plagues  and  ever-burning  smart, 

Thy  charms  divine  expel : 
Aghast  she  shuts  her  livid  eyes, 
And  wing'd,  with  tenfold  fury,  flies 

To  native  night  and  hell. 

"  By  thee  inspired  the  gen'rous  breast, 
In  blessing  others  only  blest, 

With  goodness  large  and  free, 
Delights  the  widow's  tears  to  stay, 
To  teach  the  blind  their  smoothest  way, 

And  aid  the  feeble  knee. 

"  O  come !  and  o'er  my  bosom  reign, 
Expand  my  heart,  inflame  each  vein, 

Thro'  every  action  shine  ; 
Each  low,  each  selfish  wish  control, 
With  all  thy  essence  warm  my  soul, 

And  make  me  wholly  thine. 

"  Nor  let  fair  Virtue's  mortal  bane, 
The  soul -contracting  thirst  of  gain, 

My  faintest  wishes  sway  ; 
By  her  possess'd,  ere  hearts  refine, 
In  hell's  dark  depth  shall  mercy  shine 

And  kindle  endless  day. 

"  If  from  thy  sacred  paths  I  turn, 
Nor  feel  their  griefs,  while  others  mourn, 

Nor  with  their  pleasures  glow  : 
Banish'd  from  God,  from  bliss,  and  thee, 
My  own  tormentor  let  me  be, 

And  groan  in  hopeless  woe." 


258  BLINDNESS   AMD   THE    BLIND. 

Francis  Huber,  the  Naturalist. 

This  eminent  Swiss  was  born  at  Geneva,  A.D.  1 750, 
and  lost  his  sight  just  before  reaching  man's  estate,  the 
cause  being  attributed  to  over-study,  especially  at 
night.  Before  becoming  blind,  he  had  won  the  affec- 
tions of  an  amiable  young  lady,  Marie  Aimee  Lullin, 
the  daughter  of  a  Syndic  of  the  canton  of  Geneva,  and 
when  the  calamity  overtook  him,  her  father  wished 
to  break  off  the  engagement,  but  Marie  resolutely  per- 
sisted, saying,  that  as  she  loved  him  when  he  was 
universally  admired,  she  must  not  forsake  him  now  that 
he  was  in  real  need  of  her  help.  Accordingly,  when 
the  young  lady  reached  her  majority,  which  in  Geneva 
is  at  the  age  of  twenty-five,  she  was  married  without 
her  father's  consent,  but  a  reconciliation  with  her  parent 
was  soon  after  effected. 

Before  the  loss  of  sight,  Huber  had  evinced  great 
interest  in  natural  history  (which  taste  he  seems  to 
have  inherited  from  his  father,  T.  Huber,  who  wrote  a 
work  on  the  flight  of  birds),  and  now  in  his  blindness 
he  devoted  his  chief  attention  to  the  study  of  the 
economy  of  bees.  With  such  success,  indeed,  did  he 
pursue  this  intricate  subject,  that  later  investigators 
have  found  little  to  add  to  his  researches.  To  institute 
a  series  of  minute  inquiries  into  the  nature  and  habits 
of  a  class  of  insects  so  surrounded  with  mystery  as 
that  of  the  family  of  bees,  would  seem  to  require  not 
only  great  scientific  attainments,  but  also  the  highest 
perfection  of  the  visual  organs,  and  it  is  therefore  with 
great  satisfaction  we  record  that  what  sighted  philo- 
sophers during  many  centuries  failed  to  perceive,  was 
discovered  by  the  patient  investigations  of  a  blind 
man.  To  assist  him  in  his  inquiries,  Huber  trained 
his  servant  Francis  Burnens  accurately  to  observe  and 
to  state  facts,  and  with  such  zeal  was  this  faithful 
man  inspired,  that  he  willingly  braved  the  stings  of 
whole  swarms  of  bees,  wasps,  and  hornets,  to  as- 


BIOGRAPHY.  259 

certain  or  verify  circumstances  in  which  his  master 
took  an  interest;  and  here  we  may  remark  that  it 
is  somewhat  singular  that  glass  beehives  (now  in 
common  use)  should  have  been  invented  by  this  blind 
philosopher. 

Madame  Huber  was  not  only  an  affectionate  wife, 
but  also  a  patient  helper  in  the  intricate  details  of 
her  husband's  studies. 

To  give  in  extenso  an  account  of  the  discoveries 
made  by  Huber,  would  be  virtually  to  write  a  minute 
description  of  the  genus  of  insects  to  the  investigation 
of  whose  habits  he  specially  devoted  himself;  suffice 
it  to  say,  that  the  first  instalment  of  his  works  was 
written  in  1792,  in  the  form  of  letters  to  Charles 
Bonnet,  under  the  title  of  '  Nouvelles  Observations  sur 
les  Abeilles ;  '  the  second  and  enlarged  edition 
being  published  in  1814,  which  was  partly  edited  by 
his  son  Peter,  who  afterwards  wrote  on  ants  and 
other  insects.  The  esteem  in  which  Huber  was  held 
by  men  of  science  is  shown  by  the  circumstance  that 
the  celebrated  naturalist  De  Candolle  named  a  new 
genus  of  plants  after  him  '  Huberia/  The  many 
advantages  possessed  by  Huber,  had,  however,  one 
drawback,  for  they  caused  him  to  rely  on  others  for 
many  things  in  which  he  should  have  depended  en- 
tirely on  his  own  powers.  So  much  indeed  was  he 
dependent  on  extraneous  aid,  that  he  could  not  even 
walk  about  a  field  without  having  strings  to  guide 
him,  which  were  knotted  so  as  to  point  out  par- 
ticular places.  He,  however,  made  one  effort  for 
freedom  in  procuring  type  and  a  press,  by  which  he 
succeeded  in  printing  his  own  letters,  but  the  difficulty 
of  this  undertaking  was  too  much  for  him,  and  he  ere 
long  gave  it  up.  Huber  seems  to  have  led  a  very 
happy  life,  for  which  he  possessed  every  earthly  re- 
quisite. His  pecuniary  resources  were  ample,  the  affec- 
tionate devotion  of  his  family  and  friends  was  unceas- 
ing, and  his  intellectual  powers  and  reputation  were  of 

•  2 


260  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

no  ordinary  kind ;  but  even  with  all  these  blessings 
how  many  throw  away  solid  joys  to  seek  some  ephe- 
meral gratification  !  During  the  last  few  years  of  his 
life,  Huber  was  deprived  of  the  society  of  his  devoted 
wife,  who  died  at  Lausanne,  after  which  event  he  lived 
with  his  daughter  Madame  de  Molin.  At  the  age 
of  eighty-one,  only  two  days  before  his  death,  our 
philosopher  thus  wrote  to  one  of  his  friends  : — "  I  can 
only  say  to  you  that  resignation  and  serenity  are 
blessings  that  have  not  been  denied  to  me." 

John  Gough. 

This  instructor  of  youth,  and  writer  on  philosophical 
subjects,  was  a  native  of  Kendal,  in  Westmoreland. 
He  was  born  about  1757,  and  before  the  completion  of 
his  third  year  he  was  attacked  by  smallpox,  which  de- 
prived him  of  sight.  At  the  age  of  six  he  was  sent  to 
the  school  of  the  Society  of  Friends,  then  under  the 
management  of  Mr.  Eebanks,  who  seems  to  have  taken 
great  interest  in  his  blind  pupil,  and  to  have  taught  him 
all  that  could  be  communicated  to  a  student  without 
sight,  in  a  school  intended  for  those  who  could  see. 
Gough  subsequently  entered  on  the  study  of  the  mathe- 
matics, under  the  guidance  of  Mr.  John  Slee,  and 
having  reachedgreat  perfection  in  this  branch  of  science, 
he  gradually  investigated  the  various  departments  of 
natural  philosophy.  Having  at  length  satisfied  him- 
self and  his  friends  as  to  his  mastery  of  these  difiicult 
subjects,  he  turned  his  attention  to  the  education  of 
young  gentlemen,  and  among  those  also  who  had  the 
advantage  of  his  instruction  may  be  mentioned  Dr. 
Dalton  and  Dr.  Whewell,  and  also  Messrs.  King, 
Daws,  and  Gaskin,  all  of  whom  became  eminent  in 
learning.  But  it  was  not  alone  in  the  instruction  of 
youth  that  Gough  excelled,  he  was  also  a  distinguished 
writer  on  scientific  subjects ;  and  in  '  Nicholson's 
Journal/  and  in  the  Memoirs  of  the  Literary  and  Phi- 


BIOGRAPHY.  261 

losophical  Society  of  Manchester,  may  be  found  many 
papers  contributed  by  him  on  statics,  hydrostatics, 
botany,  pneumatics,  acoustics,  mechanics,  ornithology, 
entomology,  mathematics,  music,  scotography  (i.e. 
writing  in  the  dark),  electricity,  magnetism,  meteoro- 
logy, zoology,  etc.  etc. 

This  list  is  sufficient  evidence  of  Gough's  great 
philosophical  acquirements,  and  it  also  points  out  a 
variety  of  subjects  within  the  range  of  a  student  with- 
out sight.  It  may  be  as  well  to  mention  that  our 
author  is  the  greatest  known  example  of  a  blind 
schoolmaster  successfully  instructing  sighted  pupils  in 
the  higher  branches  of  learning. 

Gough  died  in  1825,  aged  sixty-eight,  and  was 
buried  in  Kendal  churchyard. 

In  connection  with  the  gentleman  who  is  the  sub- 
ject of  this  article,  an  anecdote  is  given,  in  Wilkin- 
son's '  Tour  to  the  British  Mountains/  of  a  blind  man 
who  fell  down  with  dizziness,  clung  to  the  earth,  and 
screamed  with  fear  on  being  at  the  top  of  a  moun- 
tain, and  having  the  surrounding  precipices  described 
to  him.  We  must,  however,  confess  that  we  think 
this  statement  greatly  exaggerated.  That  it  should 
have  taken  place  in  any  degree  is  to  be  ascribed  to 
the  relaxed  nervous  system  of  the  sufferer  in  con- 
nection with '  an  imagination  of  more  than  ordinary 
vigour,  and  it  may  be  taken  for  granted  that  such 
manifestations  are  not  at  all  common  to  the  blind  as  a 
class. 

James  Wilson. 

The  remarkable  man  whose  name  heads  this  article 
was  born  at  Richmond,  in  the  state  of  Virginia,  North 
America,  in  1779,  and  lost  his  sight  when  four  years 
old  from  smallpox.  At  the  time  of  the  occurrence  of 
the  affliction  he  was  on  a  voyage  to  England,  and  had 
just  lost  his  parents,  both  of  whom  died  on  the  passage. 


262  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

The  captain  of  the  ship  being  obliged  to  put  into  an 
Irish  port  for  repairs,  young  Wilson  was  landed  at 
Belfast  and  placed  under  the  protection  of  a  church- 
warden of  the  town,  who  entrusted  him  to  a  poor 
woman  as  a  nurse  child.  His  father  fought  in  the 
American  war  of  independence  for  the  royal  cause,  and 
on  the  triumph  of  the  republican  party,  he  was  reduced 
from  the  position  of  a  well-to-do  landowner  to  com- 
parative poverty;  a  sum  of  money,  however,  was 
placed  by  the  captain  of  the  vessel  in  the  hands  of  the 
Belfast  churchwarden,  which  sufficed  for  some  time 
for  the  maintenance  of  the  poor  blind  orphan,  and  pre- 
vented his  becoming  chargeable  to  the  parish. 

When  Wilson  was  placed  on  shore  at  Belfast  he  was 
still  suffering  from  smallpox,  and  at  one  time  his  life 
was  in  danger,  but  owing  to  the  kind  attention  of  his 
nurse,  he  was  shortly  raised  from  his  bed  of  pain, 
sound  in  health,  but  almost  totally  blind.  The  little 
sight  remaining  encouraged  the  hope  that  one  eye 
might  be  restored,  and  an  operation  nearly  produced 
the  longed-for  result;  but,  being  soon  after  knocked 
down  by  a  cow,  he  was  thereby  entirely  and  irrevo- 
cably deprived  of  sight.  The  preceding  facts  are  taken 
from  an  autobiography  of  James  Wilson,  published  in 
1842,  from  which  book  we  also  think  it  desirable  to 
make  the  following  extracts,  which  are  calculated  to 
afford  information  as  to  the  life  of  the  subject  of  this 
notice,  and  also  to  give  an  idea  of  his  style  : — 

"  When  I  was  about  eight  or  nine  years  of  age,"  says. 
Wilson,  "  I  was  not  only  projector,  but  workman,  for 
all  the  children  in  the  neighbourhood.  I  amused  myself 
occasionally  in  constructing  little  windmills,  cars,  and 
ships.  A  kind  friend  made  me  a  present  of  a  little 
ship,  a  perfect  model  of  the  'Koyal  George/  which 
was  lost  at  Spithead,  and  this  toy  was  esteemed  by  me 
,  as  one  of  the  most  precious  gifts  I  could  possibly 
receive.  Having  made  myself  perfectly  acquainted 
with  its  structure,  I  thought  of  making  one  for  myself" 


BIOGRAPHY.  263 

upon  the  same  principle.  I  procured  a  piece  of  wood, 
and  with  no  other  tools  than  an  old  knife,  a  chisel,  and 
a  hammer  completed  (not,  however,  without  the  loss 
of  some  blood)  my  first  attempt  at  ship-building. 
This  pleased  my  juvenile  companions  so  well  that  I 
had  every  day  numerous  applications  for  ships.  They 

Erocured  me  the  wood,  and  my  ambition  was  not  a 
.ttle  augmented  when  I  found  that  I  was  applied  to 
by  boys  considerably  my  seniors,  and  possessing  many 
advantages  of  which  1  never  had  to  boast.     Before  I 
resigned  this  trade  I  completed  my  fourteenth  ship. 

' '  A  few  years  after  this  event  my  foster-mother  died, 
and  again  I  was  left  forlorn  and  without  a  friend.  In 
this  precarious  state,  the  only  means  I  had  of  obtain- 
ing subsistence  were  apparently  ill-suited  to  my  situa- 
tion. The  reader  may,  perhaps,  smile  when  I  inform 
him  that  at  this  time  I  was  considered  by  many  as  a 
man  of  letters,  and  that  I  earned  my  bread  in  conse- 
quence of  my  practical  engagement  in  relation  to 
them. 

"  This,  indeed,  was  the  case  ;  for  I  was  employed  to 
carry  letters  to  and  from  the  offices  of  the  different 
merchants  in  the  town  and  neighbourhood.  My 
punctuality  and  dispatch  in  this  respect  were  much  in 
my  favour,  so  that  I  was  generally  employed  in  pre- 
ference to  those  who  enjoyed  the  use  of  all  their  senses. 
In  the  course  of  time  my  sphere  was  enlarged,  and 
often,  on  important  business,  I  have  borne  dispatches 
to  the  distance  of  thirty  or  forty  miles.  This  was  cer- 
tainly not  a  little  extraordinary,  in  a  place  where  the 
confusion  and  bustle  of  business  subjected  me  to  so 
many  dangers." 

"  Being  advised  to  attempt  the  study  of  music,  I 
made  an  almost  hopeless  effort,  as  I  had  no  person  to 
instruct  me ;  but,  although  I  could  only  scrape  a  few 
tunes  which  I  had  learned  by  ear,  this  did  not  prevent 
me  from  being  called  on  occasionally  to  officiate  at 
dances.  I  soon  found,  in  consequence  of  this  avo- 


264  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

cation,  that  I  was  exposed  to  numerous  vices.  I  was 
obliged  to  associate  with  the  dregs  of  society,  to  wit- 
ness many  scenes  of  folly  and  great  wickedness,  and 
to  stay  out  late  at  nights,  and  thus  expose  myself  to 
dangers  of  different  kinds.  As  my  feelings  were  con- 
tinually at  variance  with  this  occupation,  which  I 
adopted  more  from  necessity  than  from  choice,  I  soon 
gave  it  up,  and  composed  a  farewell  address  to  my 
fiddle." 

"The  family  in  which  I  lived  was  both  poor  and 
illiterate,  and  hence  I  was  a  considerable  time  before  I 
acquired  any  taste  for  knowledge.  They  were  gene- 
rous and  humane  to  all  who  required  their  help,  and 
were  also  strictly  honest  in  their  dealings,  and  would 
not  defraud  on  any  account  whatever.  I  am  happy  to 
have  it  in  my  power  to  notice  these  traits  of  character, 
which  certainly  reflect  credit  on  their  memories ;  yet, 
praiseworthy  as  these  may  appear,  they  were  deficient 
in  their  duty  to  me,  so  far  as  the  improvement  of  my 
mind  was  concerned." 

"  It  was  painful,  indeed,  in  my  youth,  to  behold 
both  in  towns  and  villages  the  ignorance  and  wicked- 
ness which  prevailed  among  children  of  both  sexes — 
swearing,  lying,  and  throwing  stones  ;  and  the  feelings 
of  the  passengers,  while  walking  along,  were  not  only 
pained  by  their  profane  language,  but  their  personal 
safety  was  also  in  danger,  from  the  stones  which  were 
carelessly  and  mischievously  flung  around.  But, 
thanks  be  to  God,  this  evil  is  at  length  disappearing ; 
the  remedy  applied  has  been  successful,  and  that 
remedy  is  the  Sunday  School." 

"  About  this  time  I  began  to  pay  some  attention  to 
books  ;  but  my  first  course  of  reading  was,  indeed,  of 
very  indifferent  description,  as  I  was  obliged  to  listen 
to  what  was  most  convenient.  However,  I  made  the 
best  of  what  I  heard,  and  in  a  short  time,  in  conjunc- 
tion with  a  boy  of  my  own  age  who  read  to  me,  I  was 
master  of  the  principal  circumstances  in  '  Jack  the 


BIOGRAPHY.  265 

Giant  Killer/  '  Valentine  and  Orson/  '  Robinson 
Crusoe/  and  '  Gulliver's  Travels/  The  subject  of 
these  formed  my  taste,  was  swallowed  with  avidity, 
and  inspired  me  with  a  degree  of  enthusiasm  which 
awakes  even  at  the  present  day,  on  hearing  a  new  and 
interesting  work  read.  These,  however,  were  soon 
laid  aside  for  novels  and  romances,  several  hundred 
volumes  of  which  I  procured  and  got  read  in  the 
course  of  three  years;  and,  although  there  are  few 
passages  out  of  all  I  heard  then  which  I  think  worth  a 
place  in  my  recollection  now,  yet  at  that  time  I  was 
well  acquainted  with  the  most  interesting  characters 
and  events  contained  in  these  works."  .  .  . 

"  I  now  engaged  with  Mr.  Gordon,  editor  of  the 
f  Belfast  News  Letter/  to  deliver  the  papers  to  sub- 
scribers on  the  days  of  publication.  Half-a-dozen 
papers  and  two  shillings  per  week  were  my  wages  in 
this  service.  The  papers  I  lent  to  tradesmen  at  a 
halfpenny  an  hour,  and  when  the  time  allotted  to  the 
first  set  of  customers  was  expired,  it  afforded  me  an 
agreeable  exercise  to  collect  and  distribute  them  to 
others. 

"  While  in  this  employment  I  had  sometimes  to  go 
four  or  five  miles  into  the,  country ;  but,  having  an 
accurate  knowledge  of  the  surrounding  neighbourhood, 
and  being  well  acquainted  with  every  gentleman's  seat 
in  the  vicinity  of  Belfast,  however  remotely  situated 
from  the  public  road,  I  was  able  to  execute  my  busi- 
ness with  exactness  and  despatch." 

"  I  hope  the  account  of  the  following  adventure  will 
be  acceptable  to  my  readers,  as  it  will  illustrate  what 
I  have  said  respecting  my  perambulations  through 
the  town  and  neighbourhood  where  I  was  reared." 

"  On  a  winter's  evening,  in  1797,  as  I  stood  in  one 
of  the  principal  streets,  I  was  accosted  by  a  person, 
who  in  the  southern  accent  inquired  its  name.  After 
I  had  imparted  the  desired  information,  he  told  me 
that  he  was  a  soldier,  and  belonged  to  a  detachment  of 


266  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

the  Limerick  Militia,  which  had  marched  into  Belfast 
that  day. 

"  'I  went  out/  said  he,  'to  look  for  the  sergeant, 
to  get  the  pay,  and  being  a  stranger  in  the  town,  I 
lost  myself;  I  left  my  wife  and  my  firelock  in  the 
lodging-house,  and  I  forgot  the  name  both  of  the 
street  and  of  the  people  that  own  the  house.  I  have 
been  wandering  about  these  two  or  three  hours,  and 
nobody  can  tell  me  where  they  are/ 

"  I  inquired  if  he  had  observed  any  particular  build- 
ing near  the  place  where  he  left  his  wife.  c  I  believe/ 
replied  he,  '  after  turning  one  or  two  corners,  I  ob- 
served a  church/  I  considered  for  a  moment,  in 
which  of  the  streets  in  that  quarter  there  was  a  lodg- 
ing-house, and  recollected  that  a  Mrs.  Tawny  kept  a 
house  of  entertainment  in  William  Street.  I  bade 
him  follow  me,  and  took  good  care  to  keep  before 
him,  that  he  should  not  discover  that  I  was  blind.  At 
that  time  there  were  no  houses  on  the  south-west  side 
of  "William  Street;  and  fronting  the  houses  on  the 
north-east,  there  was  a  deep  ditch,  which  served  as  a, 
receptacle  for  all  the  nuisances  of  the  neighbourhood. 
As  the  night  was  very  dark,  and  there  were  no  lamps 
in  that  direction,  his  eyes  were  of  no  service  to  him 
whatever ;  consequently  he  resigned  himself  entirely 
to  my  guidance.  We  had  to  cross  the  puddle  already 
mentioned  by  six  stepping-stones;  and  though  there 
was  no  danger  whatever  of  being  drowned,  it  was 
more  than  probable  that,  had  the  soldier  got  a  dip,  his 
plight,  on  coming  out,  would  have  been  far  different 
from  that  in  which  he  appeared  at  parade.  I  groped 
with  my  staff  for  the  first  stepping-stone,  and,  getting 
on  it,  I  took  hold  of  his  hand,  and  bade  him  put  his 
foot  where  mine  was,  warning  him,  at  the  same  time, 
of  the  consequence  of  not  balancing  well.  In  this 
manner  I  conducted  him  from  one  stone  to  another, 
till  I  landed  him  safely  on  the  opposite  side,  and  was 
highly  diverted  to  hear  him  observe  that  my  eyes 


BIOGRAPHY.  267 

were  better  than  his.  I  brought  him  to  Mrs.  Tawny's, 
and  left  him  standing  at  the  door,  while  I  went  in  to 
make  the  necessary  inquiry.  I  soon  learned  that  I 
had  guessed  right,  for  I  found  his  wife  almost  in 
despair  at  his  absence,  but  I  bade  her  be  of  good 
cheer,  for  I  had  brought  her  husband  to  her ;  and  so 
saying,  I  called  him  in.  His  wife  was  rejoiced  to  see- 
him  again,  and  saluted  him,  by  crying  out,  '  Bless  mer 
dear  Barney,  where  have  you  been?  I  thought  you 
were  lost !' — '  Arrah,  my  dear,  I  couldn't  find  my  way 
back/  said  he,  '  if  it  hadn't  been  for  this  decent  man 
that  showed  me  the  house/ — 'And  more  shame  for 
you/  said  the  landlady,  '  for  you  have  your  eyesight, 
and  yet  you  must  be  guided  to  your  lodging  by  a 
blind  man.'  On  hearing  this  they  were  both  astonished, 
and  began  heartily  to  bless  themselves.  As  their  asto- 
nishment, however,  subsided,  the  hospitality  of  their 
Irish  hearts  began  to  display  itself;  for,  on  discover- 
ing that  I  was  only  a  mortal  being,  and  partook  of  the 
same  nature  and  appetite  as  themselves,  I  was  cordially 
pressed  to  stay  and  partake  of  the  fare  that  Barney, 
in  all  his  peregrinations  through  the  streets,  had  taken 
good  care  to  bring  safely  to  his  wife.  I,  however, 
declined  the  kind  offer,  and  left  them  to  drink  their 
tea  themselves,  and  enjoy  the  happiness  that  succeeds 
when  groundless  fears  and  trivial  disappointments 
have  vanished  away." 

...  "It  was  now,  indeed,  that  I  was  able  to 
appreciate  the  pleasures  of  memory  in  a  superior 
degree,  for  I  knew  the  names,  stations,  and  admirals 
of  almost  all  the  ships  in  the  navy,  and  was  also  ac- 
quainted with  the  number,  facing,  and  name  of' 
every  regiment  in  the  army,  according  to  the  respec- 
tive towns,  cities,  or  ,  shires  from  which  they  were 
raised.  I  served,  of  course,  as  an  army  and  navy  list 
for  the  poor  in  the  neighbourhood,  who  had  relations 
in  either  of  these  departments,  and  was  capable  of 
informing  them  of  all  the  general  news.  The  follow- 


268  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

ing  anecdote  shows  the  powers  of  my  memory  at  that 
period.  Being  invited  by  a  friend  to  spend  an  even- 
ing at  his  house,  I  had  scarcely  sat  down  when  three 
gentlemen  entered,  and  the  conversation  turning  on 
the  news  of  the  day,  I  was  requested  by  my  friend  to 
repeat  the  names  of  as  many  of  the  ships  of  the  British 
navy  as  I  could  recollect,  telling  me  at  the  same  time 
that  he  had  a  particular  reason  for  making  the  request. 
I  commenced,  and  my  friend  marked  them  down  as  I 
•went  along,  until  I  had  repeated  six  hundred  and 
twenty,  when  he  stopped  me,  saying  I  had  gone  far 
enough.  The  cause  of  the  request  was  then  explained. 
One  of  the  gentlemen  had  wagered  a  supper  that  I 
<?ould  not  mention  five  hundred;  he,  however,  ex- 
pressed himself  much  pleased  at  his  loss,  having  been, 
as  he  acknowledged,  highly  entertained  by  the  experi- 
ment." .  .  .  "  Although,  at  this  time,  I  had  little  relish 
for  any  other  kind  of  reading  but  newspapers  and 
novels,  yet  I  was  not  wholly  insensible  to  the  charms 
of  poetry.  I  amused  myself  with  making  verses  at 
intervals,  but  I  could  never  produce  anything  in  that 
•way  which  pleased  myself.  My  acquaintances,  par- 
ticularly the  young  people,  gave  me  sufficient  employ- 
ment in  composing  epigrams,  love  songs,  epistles,  and 
acrostics,  in  praise  of  their  sweethearts.  Many  of 
those  juvenile  productions  are  still  extant,  and,  though 
miserable  in  themselves,  continue  to  find  admirers 
among  those  classes  for  whom  they  were  composed. 

'  The  lovely  maniac  fled  the  haunts  of  men, — 
Traced  the  sea-beach,  or  sought  the  lonely  glen.' 

The  first  of  my  productions  which  met  the  public 
•eye  was  'An  Elegy  on  the  Death  of  an  unfortunate 
Female/  This  poor  maniac  was  known  for  more 
than  twenty  years  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Belfast, 
lay  the  appellation  of  Mad  Mary,  and  was  at  last  found 
dead  in  the  ruins  of  an  old  house,  where  she  had 


BIOGRAPHY.  269" 

taken  refuge  during  a  stormy  winter  night.  This- 
little  piece  being  much  noticed,  on  account  of  the 
subject  having  excited  a  general  interest,  I  was  ad- 
vised to  collect  my  best  productions  and  give  them 
to  the  public.  Encouraged  by  the  patronage  of  a  few 
generous  individuals,  I  set  about  the  work,  which  in 
a  few  months  made  its  appearance. 

' '  I  will  now  for  the  amusement  of  my  readers,  insert 
an  extract  from  this  little  collection  : — 


Verses  on  the  Richmond  National  Institution  for  tht 
Blind  in  Ireland. 

'  You  from  whose  eyes  the  tender  tear 

Can  gently  drop  for  human  woe, 
Oh  !  pour  your  soft  compassion  here, 
And  here  your  generous  boon  bestow. 

'  O  think  what  joys  to  you  are  giv'n, 

Which  they  must  never  hope  to  share  ; 
To  view  the  bright  expanse  of  heav'n, 
While  sweet  emotion  speaks  in  prayer. 

'  For  them  the  morning's  rosy  light 

In  vain  the  glowing  east  o'erspreads  ; 
To  them  the  empress  of  the  night 
In  vain  her  silvery  lustre  sheds. 

'  The  blossoms  of  the  scented  spring 

In  vain  their  silken  leaves  unfold  ; 
And  o'er  each  mead  profusely  fling 
Their  varied  tints  of  living  gold. 

'  In  vain  the  twilight  shade  descends 
In  magic  softness,  pure,  serene  ; 
In  vain  the  star  of  evening  blends 
Its  dewy  light  to  gild  the  scene. 

'  Let  infidels  presumptuous  ask, 

With  reason's  boasted  pride  elate ; 
But  be  the  Christian's  sacred  task, 
To  cheer  his  brother's  hapless  fate. 

'  Be  yours,  with  liberal  hand,  to  prove 

The  feelings  of  a  grateful  mind ; 
Be  yours,  by  acts  of  pious  love, 
To  soothe  the  sorrows  of  the  blind. 

1  Be  his,  to  speak  the  Saviour's  name 
To  hearts  that  catch  the  joyful  sound ; 


"270  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

To  kindle  pure  devotion's  flame, 
And  shed  immortal  glory  round. 

'  Thus,  -when  the  veil  of  darkness  spread 

In  all  the  gloom  of  endless  night, 
"  Let  there  be  light,"  Jehovah  said, 

Creation  heard  and  all  was  light.' 

"  On  the  above  lines  the  reader  is  left  to  comment 
•as  he  thinks  proper.  Composed  by  one  destitute  of 
sight,  of  learning,  and  even  of  an  intelligent  friend 
who  could  correct  my  compositions,  they  must,  of 
•course,  stand  very  low  in  the  scale  of  merit ;  still, 
however,  they  were  of  service  to  me,  and  I  found  the 
public  rather  disposed  to  pity,  than  to  censure,  an 
humble  individual  so  far  beneath  the  notice  of  the 
critic. 

"  Lord  Cornwallis,  who  succeeded  Earl  Camden  in 
the  viceroyalty  of  Ireland,  in  making  the  tour  of  that 
kingdom,  in  1799,  arrived  at  Belfast.  This  appear- 
ing a  favourable  opportunity,  I  was  determined  to 
petition  his  Excellency  in  relation  to  the  losses  of  my 
family  in  America.  A  petition  was  accordingly  drawn 
up,  stating  my  father's  possessions  in  that  country,  his 
services  in  the  army,  and  his  death  on  his  passage  re- 
turning to  Europe,  as  already  related.  This  petition 
I  put  into  the  hands  of  the  late  George  Joy,  Esq., 
who  kindly  offered  to  present  it,  bidding  me  to  call  on 
him  the  next  day ;  I  did  so,  but,  to  my  utter  disap- 
pointment, I  found  that  Mr.  Joy  on  dressing  for 
dinner  the  preceding  evening,  had  unfortunately  for- 
gotten my  petition  in  the  pocket  of  his  coat  which  he 
had  worn  in  the  morning.  Disappointed  in  this  quar- 
ter, I  resolved  on  following  his  Lordship  to  Annadale, 
the  seat  of  the  late  Honourable  Chichsster  Skeffington, 
as  he  had  left  Belfast  for  that  place  at  seven  o'clock 
in  the  morning.  I  did  so,  and  again  I  was  fated  to 
feel  the  bitter  pang  of  disappointment ;  for,  on  arriving 
at  Annadale  I  was  informed  that  his  Excellency  had  a 
few  hours  before  left  that  for  Dublin.  Thus  ter- 


BIOGRAPHY.  271 

urinated  the  only  hope  I  ever  had  of  obtaining  an  in- 
dependence; but,  as  there  was  no  use  in  repining,  I 
endeavoured  to  submit  to  the  disappointment  with  re- 
signation. At  this  time  I  turned  my  attention  to  a 
new  occupation,  and  fixed  on  that  of  an  itinerant 
dealer;  for  this  purpose  I  borrowed  a  few  pounds 
from  a  friend,  with  which  I  purchased  a  stock  of  such 
hardware  articles  as  might  suit  the  country  people. 

"  Being  at  the  bottom  of  fortune's  wheel,  every  new 
revolution  might  raiste  me,  but  could  not  possibly 
depress  me  lower ;  and  hence  I  commenced  my  pere- 
grinations in  the  country.  While  employed  in  this 
way  I  had  an  opportunity  of  meeting  with  a  variety 
of  characters,  and  of  mingling  in  different  societies. 
It  is  but  justice  here  to  remark  that  among  the 
peasantry  of  Ulster,  I  met  with  many  individuals 
whose  good  nature,  benevolent  dispositions,  and  kind 
hospitality  were  not  only  an  honour  to  their  country, 
but  even  to  human  nature.  While  vending  my  hard- 
ware through  the  country,  I  found  this  occupation  ill- 
suited  to  my  circumstances ;  I  was  exposed  to  many 
inconveniences,  and  experienced  much  fatigue  and 
distress  both  of  body  and  mind.  The  want  of  sight 
made  it  difficult  for  me  to  steer  my  course  aright,  and 
I  was  often  exposed  both  to  hardships  and  danger. 
Many  a  time  have  I  heard  the  thunder  roll  over  my 
head,  and  felt  the  teeming  rain  drench  me  from  head 
to  foot,  while  I  have  unknowingly  passed  by  a  place  of 
shelter,  or  stood  like  a  statue,  not  knowing  which  way 
to  turn,  though  within  a  few  paces  of  a  house."  "  How 
different  then  is  my  situation  from  his  who  has  his  sight ! 
From  the  impediments  which  cause  me  so  much  pain 
he  is  happily  exempt ;  while  he  pursues  his  journey, 
he  can  trace  the  various  beauties  of  the  surrounding 
scenery;  the  picturesque  landscape,  the  spreading 
oak,  the  flowing  brook,  the  towering  mountain  that 
hides  its  blue  summit  in  the  clouds,  the  majestic  ocean 
dashing  on  the  '  shelly  shore,'  and  the  vast  expansive 


272  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

arch  of  heaven,  bespangled  with  innumerable  stars, 
have  all,  for  him,  their  respective  beauties,  and  fail 
not  to  awaken  pleasing  and  agreeable  reflections  ;  but 
to  the  blind  these  pleasures  are  unknown,  the  charms 
of  nature  are  concealed  under  an  impenetrable  veil, 
and  the  God  of  light  has  placed  between  him  and 
silent  but  animated  nature  an  insuperable  barrier." 

"  In  the  course  of  my  life  I  have  had  many  mercies 
to  be  grateful  for ;  good  health  has  not  been  among 
the  least  of  the  blessings  I  have  enjoyed.  I  am  now 
between  sixty  and  seventy  years  of  age.  During  the 
whole  of  that  period  I  have  never  had  recourse  to 
medical  advice.  To  add  to  this,  I  have  always  been 
blest  with  a  cheerful  and  contented  mind,  with  an  un- 
common flow  of  spirits.  I  could  laugh  and  joke  with 
the  most  of  people.  Often,  in  returning,  wet  and 
weary,  from  one  of  those  long  journeys  which  I  was 
obliged  to  take  in  search  of  employment,  when  seated 
at  my  own  fireside,  surrounded  with  my  family,  the 
toils  and  fatigues  I  had  undergone  were  all  forgotten, 
and  I  enjoyed  my  frugal  meal  with  a  degree  of  pleasure 
perhaps  unknown  to  those  who  dine  at  the  tables  of 
kings  and  princes.  How  thankful  ought  I  to  be  to  the 
Giver  of  all  Mercies,  who  has  looked  out  and  provided 
for  me,  as  He  has  done,  and  has  as  it  were  led  me 
about  by  the  hand,  from  the  days  of  my  infancy  to  the 
present  hour,  in  health  and  safety  !  And  in  the  lan- 
guage of  the  Psalmist,  I  can  truly  say,  '  Goodness 
and  mercy  have  followed  me  all  the  days  of  my  life.* 
Reader !  whoever  thou  art,  may  thou  and  I,  and  all 
who  are  near  and  dear  to  us  in  this  world,  be  en- 
abled to  realize  the  concluding  sentence  of  the  in- 
spired writer,  that  is,  '  May  we  dwell  in  the  presence 
of  the  Lord  for  ever/  Amen." 

"In  the  year  1800,  there  was  an  institution  esta- 
blished in  Belfast,  for  the  purpose  of  instructing  those 
who  were  deprived  of  sight,  in  such  employments  as 
were  suited  to  their  unfortunate  situation ;  it  was 


BIOGRAPHY.  273 

styled,  '  The  Asylum  for  the  Blind/  As  it  is  of  vast' 
importance  to  the  well-being  of  society,  that  all  who 
have  not  independent  fortunes  should  be  enabled  to 
support  themselves  by  their  own  industry,  for  which 
the  blind  are  seldom  qualified,  owing  to  their  unhappy 
state,  and  the  want  of  a  suitable  education,  this 
asylum  promised  to  be  of  the  greatest  utility.  I 
was  entered  on  the  books  of  the  institution  as  an 
apprentice,  and  continued  in  it  until  within  a  few 
months  of  its  dissolution.  When  I  left  the  asylum 
I  proposed  working  on  my  own  account,  and  hav- 
ing acquired  a  partial  knowledge  of  the  upholstery 
business,  I  was  soon  employed.  My  friends  exerted 
themselves  on  this  occasion  to  promote  my  interest,  and 
though  there  were  several  individuals  who  had  learned 
the  business  in  the  same  asylum,  and  who  could  work 
better  than  I,  yet  I  generally  had  the  preference. 
Many  of  my  friends  went  so  far  as  even  to  contrive 
work  for  me,  for  which  they  had  not  immediate  use, 
merely  to  keep  me  employed.  Although  my  pecuniary 
circumstances  were  not  much  improved,  yet  I  now  ex- 
perienced a  greater  share  of  happiness  than  I  had  ever 
enjoyed  before.  I  was  in  a  situation  that  afforded 
me  better  opportunities  of  acquiring  knowledge  than 
I  had  ever  possessed ;  previously  to  this  time  I  also 
met  with  much  friendship  from  many  to  whom  I  was 
but  very  little  known  ;  and  when  it  was  understood  that 
I  was  desirous  of  information,  I  generally  received 
assistance  in  tin's  way,  even  where  I  could  not  have 
expected  it ;  either  the  lady  of  the  house  in  which  I 
was  employed,  or  one  of  the  children,  generally  read 
to  me  while  I  was  at  work.  Thus  I  improved  my 
mind  while  labouring  for  my  support. 

"Time  glided  pleasantly  away,  no  room  being 
left  for  idle  speculations  or  gloomy  forebodings.  In 
1803,  a  number  of  young  men  formed  a  Eeading 
Society  in  Belfast,  and  although  they  were  all  me- 
chanics, yet  some  of  them  were  also  men  of  taste, 


274  BLINDNESS   AND  THE   BLIND. 

and  possessed  considerable  talents.  Into  this  society 
I  was  admitted  a  member,  at  the  same  time  that  I  was 
kindly  exempted  from  the  expense  attending  its  regu- 
lations. One  of  the  members  was  a  man  of  the  most 
extraordinary  character  I  had  ever  known,  and  there- 
fore I  attached  myself  to  him.  To  good  nature  he 
united  an  original  genius,  good  taste,  and  great  sen- 
sibility; and  had  an  early  education  been  his  lot,  or 
had  his  mind  been  sufficiently  expanded  by  study,  he 
would  have  become  an  ornament  to  society,  but  he  was 
totally  devoid  of  ambition,  and  never  had  a  wish  to 
rise  above  the  rank  of  an  humble  mechanic.  This  man 
proposed  to  read  to  me  if  I  could  procure  books  :  our 
stated  time  for  this  employment  was  from  nine  o'clock 
in  the  evening  until  one  in  the  morning,  in  the  winter 
season,  and  from  seven  until  eleven  in  the  summer ; 
when  I  was  not  particularly  engaged  I  frequently  at- 
tended him  at  other  intervals.  At  breakfast  he  had 
half  an  hour  allotted  to  him,  at  dinner  a  whole  hour, 
and  every  minute  of  this  was  filled  up,  for  he  generally 
read  to  me  between  every  cup  of  tea.  By  this  means 
I  committed  to  memory  a  vast  collection  of  pieces 
both  in  prose  and  verse,  which  I  still  retain,  and 
which  have  been  until  the  present  hour  a  never  fail- 
ing source  of  amusement  to  me.  The  more  I  heard 
read,  the  more  my  desire  for  knowledge  increased, 
while  I  learned  at  the  same  time,  that  '  the  more  a 
man  knows,  he  finds  he  knows  the  less/  So  ardent 
and  steady  was  my  desire  for  knowledge  at  that  time, 
that  I  could  never  bear  to  be  absent  a  single  night  from 
my  friend ;  and  often,  when  walking  in  the  country, 
where  I  could  have  been  comfortably  accommodated, 
I  have  travelled  three  or  four  miles  in  a  severe  winter 
night  to  be  at  my  post  in  time.  Pinched  with  cold 
and  drenched  with  rain,  I  have  many  a  time  sat  down 
and  listened  for  several  hours  together  to  the  writings 
of  Plutarch,  Eollin,  or  Clarendon.  For  seven  or  eight 
years  we  continued  this  course  of  reading ;  but  to  give 


BIOGRAPHY.  275 

a  catalogue  of  the  authors  we  perused  in  that  time, 
would  be  foreign  to  my  present  purpose ;  suffice  it  to 
say,  that  every  book  in  the  English  language  which  we 
could  procure  was  read  with  avidity;  ancient  and 
Modern  History,  Poetry,  Biography,  Essays,  Maga- 
zines, Voyages,  Travels,  etc.  were  among  our  studies. 
How  precious  these  opportunities  were,  and  how  dear 
the  recollection  of  them  are  to  me  even  now,  can  only  be 
adequately  understood  by  the  few  who  have  realized  si- 
milar enjoyments,  and  can  indulge  in  similar  recollec- 
tions. Thus,  and  otherwise,  I  was  enabled  to  collect  a 
number  of  miscellaneous  facts  in  sundry  departments 
of  knowledge,  but  without  being  in  the  possession  of  the 
links  necessary  to  bind  them  together,  and  form  them 
into  a  connected  system.  But  even  as  detached  facts 
they  were  valuable ;  and  when  I  obtained  one  fact  that 
seemed  new,  striking,  and  important,  I  felt  a  thrill  to  my 
very  soul  as  if  I  had  found  a  blessing,  and  so  I  had." 

"I  being  poor,  and  having  no  books  of  my  own, 
I  was  obliged  to  make  my  memory  my  library,  and  she 
was  ever  faithful  to  the  trust  committed  to  her  keeping." 

"  The  person  to  whom  I  had  entrusted  the  manage- 
ment of  my  little  domestic  concerns  did  not  hesitate 
to  take  advantage  of  my  ignorance  of  such  affairs,  as 
well  as  my  situation.  Many  of  my  friends  felt  for  me 
and  strongly  advised  me  to  marry,  as  I  should  be  more 
comfortable  and  be  out  of  the  power  of  such  un- 
principled people." 

"They  said  that  could  I  meet  with  a  sober,  steady 
Avoman,  who  would  be  likely  to  make  a  good  wife,  the 
change  would  be  advantageous  to  me  in  more  respects 
than  one.  I  objected  to  this  proposal,  on  the  ground 
of  my  inability  to  provide  for  a  family ;  the  precarious 
manner  of  earning  my  subsistence  put  such  a  change 
beyond  my  expectation, — it  was  enough  for  me  to 
suffer  alone — I  could  not  think  of  entailing  misery 
upon  others.  This  they  could  not  deny,  but  they 
then  reasoned  in  this  way  :  no  one  required  the  kind 

T  2 


270.  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

assistance  of  an  affectionate  wife  more  than  a  blind 
man;  but  I  had  not  one  friend,  one  relative  to  look 
after  me.  What  then  would  become  of  me  in  my 
old  age  ?  I  should  be  helpless  in  the  extreme. 

"  These  and  many  other  arguments  were  used  to 
induce  me  to  assent  to  a  measure  which  they  thought 
would  finally  conduce  to  my  happiness.  Their  antici- 
pations have  since  been  fully  realized, — I  am  happy. 
I  had  the  pleasure  of  being  known,  for  some  time,  to  a 
young  woman  who  lived  in  the  neighbourhood,  having 
met  her  occasionally  at  the  house  of  a  friend  whom  I 
used  to  visit.  Her  plain  sense  and  unassuming  manners 
recommended  her  to  my  notice,  but  what  most  en- 
deared her  to  me  was  her  filial  piety.  Her  aged 
mother  and  she  lived  together,  loved  and  respected 
by  all  who  knew  them,  and  without  any  other  depen- 
dence than  the  work  of  her  own  hands,  she  supported 
herself  and  parent.  I  thought  that  she,  who  was  such 
an  attentive  and  feeling  daughter,  must  necessarily 
make  an  affectionate  wife,  and  in  this  opinion  I  was. 
not  disappointed. 

"  I  addressed  a  copy  of  verses  to  her,  who  had  now 
become  the  object  of  my  affection,  which  were  printed 
in  the  first  collection  of  my  poems.  They  had  the 
desired  effect;  they  produced  an  impression  which 
never  has  been,  and  I  may  venture  to  say,  never  will 
be  effaced.  After  the  expiration  of  two  years  our  cor- 
respondence happily  terminated,  and  we  were  married 

on  the  27th  of  November,  1802 We  have  had 

eleven  children,  of  whom  four  only  are  now  alive,  and, 
with  the  exception  of  the  diseases  common  to  children, 
those  living  are  all  healthy  and  stout." 

"  The  first  of  my  literary  acquaintances  of  any  re- 
spectability was  John  Lushington  Keilly,  Esq.,  of 
Scarvagh,  to  whose  family  I  was  warmly  recom- 
mended by  a  lady  who  introduced  me  as  a  lover  and  i 
composer  of  poetry.  In  this  gentleman's  house  I  was 
employed  for  some  time,  and  during  my  residence 


BIOGRAPHY.  277 

there  I  was  not  treated  as  a  common  workman,  but 
was  highly  entertained  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Reilly,  who 
had  the  goodness  to  read  to  me  by  turns  whilst  I  was 
at  work ;  and  in  their  absence,  a  person  was  appointed 
to  supply  their  place.  Here  there  was  a  fine  library, 
where  I  first  met  with  Spenser's  '  Fairy  Queen/ 
When  I  left  home  I  did  not  expect  to  remain  at  Scar- 
vagh  longer  than  three  or  four  weeks  at  furthest,  but 
such  was  the  partiality  of  that  worthy  family  for  me 
that  I  was  detained  there  for  nearly  three  months. 
On  taking  leave  of  my  benefactors,  Mr.  Eeilly  ob- 
served that  I  ought  not  to  be  tired  of  them  as  they 
were  not  tired  of  me  ....  The  sense  of  sight  is  not 
the  only  one  of  which  I  am  deprived,  for  I  never  remem- 
ber to  have  enjoyed  that  of  smell.  In  my  opinion, 
this  sense  can  be  more  easily  dispensed  with  than 

any  of  the  other  four I  was   very  fortunate 

in  getting  acquainted  with  a  number  of  individuals 
whose  literary  acquirements  and  love  of  virtue  reflected 
honour  on  their  names.  In  the  society  of  such  persons 
I  could  not  fail  in  acquiring  much  mental  improvement, 
and  their  conversation,  remarks,  and  advice  were  of 
great  use  to  me. 

"  The  circle  of  my  acquaintance  was  at  this  time 
greatly  enlarged,  and  I  had  the  honour  of  ranking 
among  my  friends  some  of  the  most  distinguished 
characters  of  this  country.  Among  these  was  Dr. 
Percy,  Bishop  of  Dromore.  This  great  man  was  the 
last  of  that  illustrious  school  of  which  Johnson,  Gold- 
smith, and  Burke  were  members.  His  fine  taste^  and 
literary  talents  were  accompanied  by  sweetness  of 
temper  and  a  benevolent  disposition.  From  the  Kev. 
H.  Boyd  (a  gentleman  well  known  in  the  literary 
world,  as  the  translator  of  the  Italian  poet  Dante,  and 
author  of  some  other  original  works  of  great  merit), 
I  received  the  most  marked  attention.  His  kindness 
and  that  of  his  family,  indeed,  I  cannot  easily  forget ; 
on  several  occasions  he  has  rendered  me  very  essential 


278  BLINDNESS  AND  THE   BLIND. 

services,  and  it  yields  me  no  small  degree  of  pleasure 
to  reflect,  that  I  still  enjoy  the  friendship  of  a  man 
as  eminently  distinguished  for  his  virtues  as  for  his 
talents." 

The  foregoing  extracts  are  well  calculated  to  give 
an  idea  of  the  difficulties  with  which  the  majority  of 
the  blind  have  to  contend,  but  our  chief  reason  for 
inserting  them  in  this  place  is  the  circumstance  that 
James  Wilson  was  the  author  of  a  work  entitled  '  The 
Biography  of  the  Blind/  which  has  proved  eminently 
useful  in  conveying  an  idea  of  the  influence  exerted  on 
the  world's  affairs  by  persons  without  sight,  and  also 
in  directing  attention  to  the  capabilities  and  require- 
ments of  the  blind. 

The  first  edition  of  the  book  was  published  in  1820, 
a  second  appeared  in  1833,  a  third  in  1835,  and  a 
fourth  in  1838;  about  seven  years  after  which,  it  is 
believed  the  author  died  at  Birmingham,  where  he 
had  for  some  time  resided. 

For  many  years  prior  to  his  death  he  maintained 
himself  and  a  very  large  family,  principally  by  the 
sale  of  his  literary  productions. 

In  the  list  of  the  eminent  blind  there  are  many 
illustrious  and  distinguished  men,  but  few  could  be 
pointed  out  who  have  proved  as  useful  to  their  suffer- 
ing brethren  as  James  Wilson. 

Holman,  the  Traveller  and  Author. 

James  Holman  was  born  at  Exeter  in  1786.  He 
early  entered  the  navy,  and  at  the  age  of  twenty-five,, 
being  then  a  lieutenant,  lost  his  sight  on  the  west 
coast  <of  Africa.  .  For  some  time  after  this  calamity, 
he  was  greatly  agitated  by  the  conflicting  emotions 
of  hope  and  fear,  caused  by  the  vacillating  conduct  of 
his  medical  advisers.  At  length  he  conjured  them  to 
be  plain  with  him,  saying  that  he  would  rather  know 
the  worst  and  bear  it,  than  continue  to  be  tortured  by 
doubt  and  anxiety.  Thus  assailed,  the  ophthalmic 


BIOGRAPHY.  279 

surgeons  admitted  that  his  sight  was  irrecoverably  lost, 
and  Holman,  bracing  himself  to  the  exigencies  of  the 
position,  determined  to  make  the  best  of  that  which 
he  had  no  power  to  remedy. 

At  first  he  formed  the  design,  as  it  would  appear,  of 
devoting  himself  entirely  to  literature,  as  we  find  that 
he  entered  the  University  of  Edinburgh,  and  gave 
himself  up  for  some  time  exclusively  to  study.  Per- 
ceiving, however,  that  his  health  gave  way,  and  that 
the  tone  of  his  nervous  system  was  becoming  relaxed, 
he  concluded  that  he  was  not  adapted  for  sedentary 
pursuits  ;  and  having  once  become  impressed  with  this 
idea,  he  was  not  long  in  deciding  on  his  line  of  action. 
A  love  of  adventure  had  always  formed  a  marked  trait 
of  his  character.  While  in  the  navy,  he  constantly 
evinced  a  strong  desire  to  sail  round  the  globe,  and 
now,  although  bereft  of  sight  and  weak  in  health,  he 
formed  the  plan  of  travelling  on  the  Continent  in  such 
a  way  as  would  leave  him  the  free  use  of  his  faculties. 
His  friends  strongly  opposed  the  project,  and  urged 
him  at  least  to  take  a  servant  with  him,  but  Holman, 
feeling  that  to  have  any  permanent  attendant  would 
simply  be  to  place  himself  in  a  state  of  perpetual  tute- 
lage, resolved  on  travelling  alone,  and  to  trust  to  the 
soundness  of  his  judgment,  the  powers  of  a  mode- 
rately filled  purse,  and  the  probability  of  obtaining 
extraneous  aid  whenever  it  might  be  required.  Be- 
hold, then,  the  sightless  traveller,  in  the  eighth  year 
of  his  blindness,  and  the  thirty-third  of  his  age,  on 
the  15th  of  October,  1819  (the  anniversary  of  his 
birthday,  and  the  same  date  of  the  year  on  which  he 
entered  the  Edinburgh  University),  at  Dover,  on 
board  the  packet  bound  for  Calais.  In  those  days  no 
steamboat  crossed  the  channel,  and  railways  were 
unknown.  In  proceeding  through  France  by  les  dili- 
(jcnces,  Holman  adopted  a  singular  method  to  procure 
exercise,  and  relieve  himself  from  ennui.  Alighting 
from  the  coach,  he  took  a  piece  of  string  from  his 


280  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

.pocket,  and  tying  one  end  to  the  back  of  the  vehicle, 
and  laying  hold  of  the  other,  he  ran  after  the  diligence 
to  the  no  small  amusement  of  the  children  of  the 
villages  through  which  he.  passed.  The  greatest  dan- 
ger to  which  he  ever  seems  to  have  been  exposed, 
occurred  in  the  following  way  :  Holman,  when  he  first 
went  to  France,  could  not  speak  a  word  of  French, 
and  arriving  at  Bordeaux,  in  the  diligence,  he  found 
that  all  the  passengers  got  out,  and  left  him  to  shift 
for  himself.  It  was  raining  in  torrents.  In  vain  he 
called  for  help.  Presently  the  diligence  was  sur- 
rounded by  a  noisy  crowd  of  people,  talking  voci- 
ferously, and  soon  after  he  was  conscious  of  an  ex- 
traordinary irregular  motion,  the  people  occasionally 
opening  the  doors,  and  turning  him  from  side  to  side, 
as  if  they  were  shifting  him  for  a  balance.  He  imagined 
from  this  singular  circumstance  that  they  were  taking 
off  the  wheels  with  the  intention  of  putting  the 
carriage  under  cover.  This  speculation  was  soon  dis- 
sipated, however,  by  a  loud  splashing  noise  of  water 
rising  and  falling  and  gurgling  about  him. 

The  motion  and  the  noise  continued  to  increase, 
until  at  the  end  of  an  hour,  to  his  infinite  satisfaction, 
the  horses  were  again  attached  to  the  diligence)  the 
passengers  re-entered,  and  the  party  proceeded  on 
their  journey. 

This  mysterious  incident  was  susceptible  of  a  simple 
solution.  It  was  necessary  on  reaching  the  river 
Dordogne,  which  flows  into  the  Garonne,  at  Bor- 
deaux, to  transport  the  diligence  on  a  raft  down  the 
stream,  while  the  passengers,  crossing  the  river  in  a 
*erry-boat,  were  taken  to  their  destination  on  the  other 
side  in  a  carriage. 

All  the  time  that  Holman  believed  he  was  sitting  in 
the  coacH-office  yard  at  Bordeaux,  he  was  making  a 
voyage  of  four  miles  on  a  raft,  without  having  the 
least  suspicion  of  being  the  hero  of  such  an  adventure. 

In  1821  Holman  returned  to  England,  and  took   up 


BIOGRAPHY.  281 

his  abode  at  Travers'  College  for  naval  knights  at 
Windsor,  which  institution  was  established  by  the 
gentleman  whose  name  it  bears,  for  the  reception  of 
naval  officers  with  small  means.  Our  traveller  in 
1812  had  been  elected  by  the  Crown  as  one  of  the 
poor  knights  ;  and  although  the  condition  of  residents 
in  the  college  was  particularly  distasteful  to  him,  yet 
as  the  income  connected  with  the  appointment  was 
not  to  be  despised,  he  managed  to  keep  his  name  on 
the  books,  and  also  to  carry  out  his  other  plans  by 
getting  long  periods  of  leave  of  absence,  and  at  length 
he  obtained  such  power  at  Court  that  he  was  enabled 
to  procure  a  permit  with  a  Eoyal  signature,  exempting 
him  from  attendance  at  prayers,  though  he  might  be  at 
the  time  residing  in  the  college. 

In  1822  Holman  turned  author,  and  published  his 
first  volume  of  travels,  entitled  '  The  Narrative  of  a 
Journey  undertaken  in  the  years  1819,  1820,  and 
1821,  through  France,  Italy,  Savoy,  Switzerland,  parts 
of  Germany  bordering  on  the  Rhine,  Holland,  and  the 
Netherlands,  comprising  incidents  which  occurred  to 
the  author,  who  has  long  suffered  from  a  total  depri- 
vation of  sight,  with  various  points  of  information  col- 
lected in  his  Tour,  by  James  Holman,  R.N.  and  K.W.' 
This  volume  having  passed  through  four  editions,  a 
fifth  was  issued  in  1834,  dedicated  to  the  Princess 
Augusta,  and  from  the  title-page  we  gather  that 
Holman  was  then  a  Fellow  of  the  Royal  Society.  In 
1822  our  traveller  undertook  a  journey  of  the  most  ex- 
tensive character.  He  proceeded  to  St.  Petersburg, 
and  from  thence  set  out  with  the  intention  of  travers- 
ing the  whole  extent  of  the  Russian  empire,  and  from 
its  eastern  extremity  to  return  to  England ;  and  thus 
to  accomplish  the  feat  of  travelling  entirely  round  the 
world.  This  great  idea,  however,  was  not  destined  to 
be  fulfilled,  for  when  Holman  had  penetrated  five  thou- 
sand miles  into  the  Russian  dominions,  being  two 
thousand  miles  beyond  Tobolsk,  the  capital  of  Siberia, 


282  BLINDNESS   AND    THE   BLIND. 

he  was  overtaken  by  a  Russian  officer  with  express 
orders  from  the  Emperor  to  prevent  his  going  any 
further,  and  to  bring  him  back  to  the  Austro-Russian 
frontiers.  The  only  reason  that  can  be  assigned  for 
this  summary  interference  on  the  part  of  the  St. 
Petersburg  government,  is  the  probability  that  they 
did  not  believe  that  Holman  was  blind,  but  thought 
that  he  assumed  to  be  in  that  condition  to  cloak  some 
secret  design,  in  which  supposition  they  would  be 
greatly  strengthened  by  the  circumstance  that  Holman 
did  not  apply  for  a  passport  in  the  regular  way,  but 
kept  getting  new  passports  for  short  distances,  in- 
stead of  obtaining  one  for  the  whole  journey.  His 
motive  for  adopting  this  course  was  to  prevent  his 
friends  from  being  alarmed  at  the  dangers  to  which  he 
intended  exposing  himself,  but  although  we  can  under- 
stand his  motive,  we  can  also  perceive  the  influence 
that  such  proceedings  would  have  on  the  government 
of  the  Autocrat  of  all  the  Russias.  Being  brought 
back  to  the  frontiers  of  Austrian  Poland,  Holman  pro- 
ceeded to  Cracow,  and  from  thence  through  Austria, 
Saxony,  Prussia,  and  Hanover,  where  he  embarked 
for  Hull,  which  he  reached  June  24th,  1824,  after  an 
absence  from  England  of  two  years  and  one  day.  The 
results  of  this  second  enterprise  of  our  traveller  were 
published  in  1825  in  two  volumes,  dedicated  to  King 
George  IV.,  to  which  were  prefixed  the  following 
words  as  a  motto  : — "  The  man  who  is  the  lord  of  the 
land  spake  roughly  to  us  and  took  us  for  spies  of 
the  country."  The  only  contretemps  that  happened 
while  Holman  was  in  Siberia,  except  his  being  brought 
back,  was  rather  of  a  ludicrous  character.  Dining 
with  the  governor  of  Tobolsk,  and  hearing  a  strange 
sound  in  the  room,  he  asked  what  animal  that  was 
about  as  high  as  the  table,  which  was  making  a 
snoring  noise  like  a  dog  ?  This  question  was  unfortu- 
nate, as  the  sound  proceeded  from  one  of  the  town 
councillors,  who  always  made  a  snuffling  with  his 


BIOGEAPHY.  283. 

nose,  and  whose  stature  was  so  low  that  he  seemed 
about  the  height  of  the  table.  The  way  in  which  the 
blind  traveller  felt  respecting  the  interruption  of  his 
journey  is  shown  by  the  following  passage  : — "On  the' 
19th  of  July,  1822,"  he  says,  "I  embarked  in  the- 
'  Saunders  Hill '  schooner,  commanded  by  Captain 
Courtney,  then  lying  in  the  London  Docks,  and  bound 
for  St.  Petersburg,  with  the  ostensible  motive  of 
visiting  the  Russian  empire ;  but  my  real  intention, 
should  circumstances  prove  propitious,  was  to  make  a 
circuit  of  the  whole  world.  My  motives  for  concealing 
so  important  a  part  of  my  views,  it  will  not  be  difficult 
to  explain ;  they  are  attributable  to  the  opposition  my 
kind  friends  have  always  been  inclined  to  make 
against  what,  under  my  peculiar  deprivation,  they  are 
disposed  to  regard  as  Quixotic  projects ;  a  feeling  on 
their  part  which  I  am  desirous  to  suppress,  since,  on 
various  occasions,  I  have  to  charge  it  with  the  disap- 
pointment of  my  most  anxious  wishes.  Alas,  how 
little  are  they  able  to  appreciate  my  true  sentiments 
and  powers,  as  developing  themselves  in  an  intense 
desire  to  occupy  the  mind,  to  acquire  solid  informa- 
tion, and  triumph  over  those  difficulties  which  others 
might  deem  insurmountable  !  That  my  views  are  not 
chimerical  may  be  inferred  from  the  success  which,  as 
far  as  my  own  powers  are  concerned,  has  hitherto  at- 
tended my  exertions." 

In  1827  Lieutenant  Holman  commenced  a  voyage 
round  the  world,  which  he  completed  in  1832.  The  cir- 
cumstances connectedwith  such  an  enterprise  were  suffi- 
ciently arduous,  but  they  did  not  present  the  same 
amount  of  difficulty  as  was  involved  in  the  land  travels 
above-named.  During  this  voyage  he  visited  various 
parts  of  Africa,  Asia,  Australasia,  and  America,  and 
the  results  of  his  investigations  were  published  in  four 
volumes,  dedicated  to  Queen  Adelaide ;  the  first  of 
which  appeared  in  1834.  The  connection  that  formerly 
existed  between  our  traveller  and  the  sea  made  long- 


284,  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

voj'ages  particularly  agreeable  to  him  ;  and  we  find  that 
going  aloft  and  even  ascending  to  the  mast-head  were 
among  his  favourite  occupations.  He  also  not  unfre- 
quently  proved  himself  far  from  a  useless  member  of 
the  ship's  company,  for  it  is  stated  that  being  on  one 
occasion  at  Gravesend  and  sleeping  on  board-ship,  in 
the  middle  of  the  night  a  collision  occurred,  which  so 
shook  the  vessel  that  every  one  thought  they  were 
going  to  the  bottom.  Holman,  however,  rushed  on 
deck  in  his  night  dress,  and,  hearing  the  captain  call 
to  some  one  to  take  the  helm,  he  immediately  seized 
it,  and  obeyed  the  captain's  orders  so  well  that  they 
were  soon  rescued  from  their  imminent  danger.  The 
captain  being  only  just  able  to  see  a  white  dress,  took 
the  wearer  for  his  wife  and  rushed  to  embrace  her, 
exclaiming  that  she  had  saved  the  vessel.  In  view  of 
this  incident,  it  is  not  surprising  to  find  that  Holman 
was  permitted  to  take  the  helm  in  ordinary  weather 
whenever  he  pleased. 

After  the  foregoing  events,  our  traveller  confined  his 
journeyings  to  his  native  country,  and  made  frequent 
excursions  from  Windsor  to  various  parts  of  the  king- 
dom. When  in  London  he  usually  took  up  his  tem- 
porary residence  at  a  boarding-house  (once  the  private 
dwelling  of  Edmund  Burke)  about  the  middle  of 
Gerrard  Street,  Soho,  then  a  far  more  respectable  street 
than  now;  and  persons  familiar  with  West  London, 
about  twenty-five  years  ago,  must  often  have  noticed 
a  blind  gentleman,  plainly  dressed  (the  only  remark- 
able article  of  apparel  being  a  hat  with  a  brim  of  more 
than  ordinary  breadth),  walking  briskly  through  the 
streets  with  a  step  light  and  buoyant,  with  his  hand 
linked  in  the  arm  of  a  servant,  whom  he  seemed  to 
guide  rather  than  to  be  led  by.  His  figure  was  spare 
and  his  face  intelligent,  with  a  pleasant  and  kindly  ex- 
pression, not  altogether  free  from  traces  of  physical 
suffering,  and  it  had  acquired  a  special  character, 
almost  Oriental,  from  a  long  beard  which  had  grown. 


BIOGRAPHY.  285 

nearly  white.  This  gentleman  was  Lieutenant  Hol- 
man, the  blind  traveller  and  author,  and  his  presence 
never  failed  to  create  an  impression  not  easily  for- 
gotten. It  could  have  been  wished  that  in  his 
various  works  Holman  had  given  more  details  with 
regard  to  himself  personally,  as  such  information 
would  have  been  very  useful  to  other  blind  persons, 
and  it  is  also  to  be  regretted  that  his  volumes  are 
merely  ordinary  books  of  travel,  containing  only  such 
information  as  can  be  found  in  the  productions  of 
almost  any  writer  on  the  same  subjects.  His  style  is 
discursive  rather  than  graphic,  and  it  must  be  admitted 
that  the  prevailing  feature  of  his  works  is  quantity 
rather  than  quality.  Yet  Lieutenant  Holman  over- 
came immense  difficulties ;  and  when  we  consider  that 
he  prepared  for  the  press  seven  volumes  of  moderate 
bulk,  it  is  evident  that  his  labours  as  an  author  were 
scarcely  less  remarkable  than  his  enterprise  as  a  tra- 
veller. While  on  his  journeys,  if  possible,  he  used  to 
get  persons  to  make  memoranda  for  him,  and  when 
this  could  not  be  done,  he  made  short  notes  himself  by 
means  of  Wedgewood's  noctograph ;  as,  however,  he 
could  not  read  these  notes  after  they  were  written, 
they  were  of  small  value  to  him,  and  he  had,  he  says, 
to  trust  principally  to  his  memory.  It  does  not 
appear  that,  strictly  speaking,  Holman  ever  travelled 
without  a  guide  j  he  was  passed  on  from  one  convey- 
ance to  another,  and  whenever  he  stayed  in  a  place 
for  ever  so  short  a  time,  he  engaged  the  services  of  an 
attendant,  who  generally  was  also  an  interpreter. 
Holman  always  managed  his  own  monetary  affairs, 
and  he  used  to  draw  bills  on  London,  which  were 
cashed  by  the  merchants  and  bankers  of  the  various 
towns  through  which  he  passed.  He  also  carried  with 
him  about  a  hundred  pounds  in  Herries  and  Farquier's 
circular  notes,  which  were  to  be  used  in  case  of  failure 
in  getting  his  bills  cashed.  By  this  arrangement  he 
was  prevented  from  carrying  a  large  amount  of  coin, 


286  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

which  greatly  lessened  his  apprehension  of  being 
robbed.  There  is  a  passage  in  '  Othello '  that  Holman 
was  fond  of  quoting,  and  which  accurately  embodies 
one  of  the  golden  rules  of  his  own  life.  He  never 
indulged  in  fruitless  regrets,  but  with  a  cheerfulness 
and  bravery  of  heart  which  imparted  at  once  serenity 
and  resolution  to  his  character,  he  was  always  ready  to 
make  the  best  of  the  most  untoward  events.  Here  is 
the  passage  : — 

"  "When  remedies  are  past  the  griefs  are  ended, 
By  seeing  the  -worst  which  late  on  hopes  depended, 
To  mourn  a  mischief  that  is  past  and  gone 
Is  the  next  -way  to  draw  new  mischief  on. 
What  cannot  be  preserved,  when  fortune  takes, 
Patience  her  injury  a  mockery  makes. 
The  robbed  who  smiles  steals  something  from  the  thief, 
He  robs  himself  who  spends  a  bootless  grief." 

Othello,  act  i.  so.  3. 

Holman  some  time  before  his  death  was  engaged  in 
writing  a  book  on  foreign  wines,  and  in  preparing  for 
the  press  a  new  edition  of  his  travels,  but  these  works 
were  never  published. 

Lieutenant  Holman  died  in  1857,  at  his  lodgings 
in  John  Street,  Trinity  Square,  London,  and  his  re- 
mains were  interred  in  Highgate  Cemetery,  where, 
about  150  yards  beyond  the  chapel  on  the  left  of  the 
carriage-drive,  turning  to  the  left  from  the  principal 
entrance,  will  be  found  a  simple  stone,  with  the  fol 
lowing  inscription  : — 

' '  In  memory  of  the  celebrated  blind  traveller,  Lieut. 
James  Holman,  R.K,  F.R.S.,  etc.,  of  Travers'  College, 
Windsor,  who  died  the  28th  of  July,  1857,  aged  70." 

LAWYERS  AND  DIVINES. 

Nicaise  de  Werde;  a   Priest  of   the    "Roman 
Catholic  Church. 

According  to  the  Roman  Catholic  canon  law,  and 
it  is  said  of  that  also  of  the  Anglican  Church,  no  per- 


BIOGRAPHY.  287 

son  can  be  admitted  into  holy  orders  who  labours 
under  the  infirmity  of  blindness  ;  but,  in  this  case  as 
in  many  others,  the  spirit  is  better  than  the  law,  for 
we  find  that  persons  not  possessed  of  sight  have  been 
regularly  ordained  priests  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church,  and  clergymen  of  the  Church  of  England. 

Nicaise  de  "Werde,  or  Nicaise  de  Woerde,  sometimes 
called  Nicaise  of  Malines,  and  Nicasius  de  Wurde,  was 
a  native  of  Belgium,  and  flourished  towards  the  end 
of  the  fifteenth  century.  He  lost  his  sight  at  the  age 
of  three  years,  and  having  devoted  himself  to  the 
study  of  law  and  divinity,  he  reached  such  excellence 
that  he  was  made  a  professor  of  common  and  civil 
law  in  the  University  of  Cologne.  His  reputation  was 
so  great  that  the  degree  of  Doctor  of  Divinity  was 
conferred  upon  him  by  the  famous  University  of  Lou- 
vain,  and  the  Pope  actually  granted  a  dispensation 
suspending  the  law  of  the  church  in  his  case,  in  order 
that  he  might  be  ordained  a  priest,  and  thereby  be 
duly  qualified  to  offer  the  sacrifice  of  the  mass,  and 
perform  the  other  rites  of  the  Latin  Church.  All 
that  is  further  recorded  of  De  Werde  is,  that  he  de- 
voted the  later  years  of  his  life  exclusively  to  pas- 
toral duties,  and  that  he  died  at  Cologne  in  1492.  It 
cannot  fail  to  be  gratifying  to  the  blind  to  know  that 
a  man,  labouring  under  the  same  privation  as  them- 
selves, reached  such  excellence  that  even  the  chief 
ruler  of  Christendom  was  moved  to  suspend  the  laws 
of  the  church  in  order  that  justice  might  be  done  to 
a  blind  professor,  and  that  every  obstacle  might  be 
taken  out  of  the  way  of  the  development  of  his  fa- 
culties, for  the  benefit  of  his  fellow-men ;  and  when  it 
is  considered  what  peculiar  sanctity  is  claimed  for  the 
priesthood,  and  how  requisite  the  possession  of  the 
sense  of  sight  appears  for  -'the  due  performance  of  the 
elaborate  and  punctilious  services  of  the  Church  of 
Rome,  we  are  led  to  admire  the  liberality  of  the  Pope 
of  that  day,  and  to  wish  that  many  of  those  who  are 


288  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

now  so  furious  against  the  Romish  system  would  at 
least  imitate  him  in  carrying  out  the  Christian  prin- 
ciple of  being  "  eyes  to  the  blind." 

Dr.  Nicholas  Bacon. 

This  remarkable  lawyer  appears  to  have  been  born 
in  London  about  the  beginning  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury. Some  writers  have  given  a  positive  date,  but 
they  have  evidently  confounded  the  subject  of  this 
notice  with  Sir  Nicholas  Bacon,  the  eminent  minis- 
ter of  Queen  Elizabeth.  Dr.  Nicholas  Bacon  was  de- 
scended from  the  same  ancestors  as  those  of  Lord 
Bacon,  the  great  philosopher,  and  we  have  it  on  cre- 
dible authority  that  he  lost  his  sight  at  the  age  of  nine 
years  by  an  arrow  from  a  cross-bow.  His  parents 
had  intended  him  for  the  legal  profession,  and  after  his 
blindness,  having  heard  of  the  achievements  of  Nicaise 
de  Werde  (a  sketch  of  whose  life  has  already  been 
given),  they  determined  that  loss  of  sight  should  not 
interfere  with  the  carrying  out  of  their  original  de- 
sign. Young  Nicholas  therefore  pursued  his  studies 
just  as  though  nothing  had  happened,  the  single  ex- 
ception being,  that  books  were  read  to  him  instead  of 
his  reading  them  for  himself.  We  are  not  told  where 
and  under  whose  instruction  he  acquired  his  ele- 
mentary knowledge,  but  it  is  stated  that  the  pro- 
fessors at  the  university  (probably  that  of  Brussels) 
admitted  him  into  the  classes  rather  from  an  idea  of 
affording  him  amusement  than  from  any  expectation 
that  he  would  profit  by  the  lessons.  He,  however, 
proceeded  so  well  that  he  always  obtained  places  of 
distinction  among  his  fellow-students;  it  was  never- 
theless thought  that,  although  he  had  progressed 
rapidly  in  the  preliminary  steps  of  learning,  his  ad- 
vancement would  be  certainly  checked  by  the  diffi- 
culties connected  with  the  higher  branches  of  acade- 
mical knowledge,  and  when  poetry  became  the  ob- 


BIOGEAPHY.  289 

ject  of  competition,  it  was  a  general  opinion  that 
his  career  would  be  stopped ;  but  Bacon  soon  showed 
by  his  success  in  this  study,  the  immense  difference 
that  exists  between  mental  and  physical  blindness. 
After  continuing  his  application  to  literature  and 
science  for  the  period  usual  with  gentlemen  of  his  age 
and  position,  he  turned  special  attention  to  the 
study  of  jurisprudence,  and  in  due  time  had  the  satis- 
faction of  seeing  himself  elected  Doctor  of  Laws  by 
the  University  of  Brussels.  In  consequence  of  the 
attainment  of  this  degree,  Bacon  commenced  to  prac- 
tise as  an  advocate  in  the  Council  of  Brabant ;  and  he 
had  the  great  pleasure  of  finding  that  he  terminated 
almost  every  suit  in  which  he  was  engaged  to  the 
entire  satisfaction  of  his  clients.  It  is  much  to  be  re- 
gretted that  more  is  not  known  of  the  history  of  this 
distinguished  man ;  but  it  is  gratifying  to  find  that, 
when  blindness  entered  the  great  Bacon  family,  the 
member  of  the  house  afflicted  by  it,  so  far  from  dishon- 
ouring his  ancestors,  added  new  laurels  to  the  family 
wreath  which  he  carried  untarnished  to  the  grave. 

The  Rev.  John  Troughton. 

This  eminent  Puritan  minister  was  born  at  Co- 
ventry in  1637,  and  became  blind  at  the  age  of  four 
years  from  smallpox.  His  father  (Nathan  Troughton, 
a  respectable  clothier)  had  the  good  sense  to  send 
his  blind  son  to  the  free-school  of  his  native  town, 
where,  under  the  instruction  of  Samuel  Frankland,  he 
acquired  the  rudiments  of  education,  which  enabled 
him  when  nineteen  years  old  to  enter  as  a  scholar  of 
St.  John's  College,  Oxford,  where  he  eventually  became 
a  Fellow,  and  took  the  degree  of  Bachelor  of  Arts. 

On  the  restoration  of  Charles  IIV  Troughton,  like 
other  nonconformists,  was  ejected  from  his  Fellowship, 
whereupon  he  retired  to  the  small  town  of  Bicester, 
in  Oxfordshire,  and  maintained  himself  by  giving 

u 


290  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

academical  instruction,  and  by  preaching  to  his  co- 
religionists whenever  opportunity  offered ;  the  latter 
pursuit  was  attended  with  considerable  risk,  as  to 
preach  or  pray  otherwise  than  in  the  prescribed  manner 
was  then  contrary  to  law,  and  subjected  him  who  would 
serve  God  according  to  his  conscience  to  the  risk  of 
divers  pains  and  penalities.  This  hard  state  of  things, 
however,  was  but  of  short  duration,  for,  in  1671,  the 
'  Declaration  for  Religious  Toleration '  was  issued;  and 
Troughton,  wishing  to  turn  the  opportunity  to  the  best 
account,  repaired  to  the  city  of  Oxford  in  company 
with  three  other  Bachelors  of  Divinity,  to  re-esta- 
blish public  preaching  there  according  to  the  Pu- 
ritan system  ;  and  it  is  evident  that  the  reputation  of 
our  blind  minister  must  have  stood  high  with  the 
brethren,  as  he  was  specially  selected  by  the  elders 
for  this  important  work.  On  arriving  at  Oxford,  the 
four  Puritan  divines  commenced  their  religious  services 
at  a  private  house  in  Thames  Street,  without  the  North 
Gate,  where  many  of  the  university  students  attended 
from  curiosity,  and  were  loud  in  their  praises  of  blind 
Troughton,  as  he  was  called,  alleging  that  he  excelled 
his  three  associates  ;  and  indeed  his  merits  must  have 
been  of  no  ordinary  kind,  for  Anthony  Wood,  a  bitter 
enemy  of  the  Puritans,  says  that  he  (Troughton)  "was 
a  good  school  divine  and  metaphysician,  and  was  not 
of  so  busy,  turbulent,  and  furious  a  spirit  as  those  of 
his  persuasion  commonly  are."  "  He  was  respected 
by,  and  maintained  an  amicable  correspondence  with, 
some  of  the  conformable  clergy,  because  of  his  great 
knowledge  and  moderation." 

The  works  written  by  Troughton  were  '  Lutherus 
Redivivus/  or  'The  Protestant  Doctrine  of  Justifi- 
cation by  Faith  only/'  parts  i.  and  ii. ;  '  Letter  to  a 
Friend  touching  God's  Providence,'  a  postscript  to  the 
foregoing  letter ;  '  Popery  the  Grand  Apostasy/  and 
'An  Apology  for  the  Nonconformists.'  This  jtious 
and  learned  divine  died  at  Oxford  on  the  20th  of 


BIOGRAPHY.  291 

August,  1681,  at  the  age  of  44,  and  his  body  was 
carried  to  Bicester  and  buried  in  the  church.  The 
funeral  sermon  being  preached  in  the  town  by  one  of 
his  co-religionists,  who  was  also  blind.  This  man, 
named  Abraham  James,  had  been  educated  at  Mag- 
dalen Hall,  Oxford,  and  was  at  the  time  of  Trough- 
ton's  death  master  of  the  Free  School,  at  Woodstock ; 
he  was  of  an  ardent  temperament,  and  when  preach- 
ing the  sermon  above  named,  was  so  carried  away  by 
his  feelings  that  he  attacked  the  Established  Church 
in  no  measured  terms,  which  so  offended  the  vicar  of 
the  parish,  who  was  present,  that  he  complained  to 
the  Government,  and  James  would  certainly  have  been 
punished  and  lost  his  school,  had  he  not  apologized  for 
his  hasty  expressions.  The  conduct  of  these  two  blind 
•scholars  and  divines  in  boldly  vindicating  the  cause 
which  they  considered  to  be  true,  at  a  time  when  such 
a  course  exposed  them  to  all  kinds  of  inconvenience, 
indignity,  and  peril,  cannot  but  be  regarded  with  re- 
spect, even  by  those  who  differ  from  their  views ;  and 
their  successful  endeavours  to  provide  for  their  own 
maintenance,  and  to  eat  no  man's  bread  for  nought, 
are  worthy  of  universal  imitation.  "The  prudent, 
cautious,  self-control,"  evinced  by  Troughton  at  a  time 
when  the  exhibition  of  such  qualities  was  most  diffi- 
cult and  rare,  shows  that  he  possessed  the  true  Chris- 
tian spirit,  and  his  works  prove  him  to  have  been  a 
scholar  of  whom  the  Blind  may  justly  be  proud. 

The  Rev.  Richard  Lucas,  D.D.,  Prebendary  of  West- 
minster, etc. 

This  distinguished  clergyman  of  the  Church  of 
England  was  a  native  of  Wales,  being  born  at 
Presteign,  in  Radnorshire,  in  1648.  When  sixteen 
years  old  he  entered  Jesus  College,  Oxford,  where  he 
was  ordained,  in  1672,  soon  after  which  he  became 

u2 


292  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

Master  of  the  Free  School  at  Abergavenny,  and  from 
thence  was  preferred  to  the  Vicarage  of  St.  Stephen's, 
Coleman  Street,  London,  and  to  the  Lectureship  of  St. 
Glare's,  Southwark.  His  sight,  which  began  to  fail  in 
his  youth,  entirely  left  him  soon  after  his  arrival  in 
the  metropolis ;  but  this  in  no  way  interfered  with  his 
ecclesiastical  duties,  as  he  not  only  continued  the 
pastoral  care  of  the  two  churches  above  named,  but 
also  was  installed,  in  1691,  as  Prebendary  of  West- 
minster. 

It  is  a  striking  testimony  to  the  way  in  which  the 
soul  may  triumph  over  bodily  infirmities,  to  find  that 
this  eminent  divine  not  only  performed  the  triple 
duties  here  stated,  but  also  wrote  several  works  after 
his  loss  of  sight ;  and  it  may  be  as  well  to  mention 
that  of  the  following  publications  which  issued  from 
his  pen,  the  best  and  the  greater  number  were  pro- 
duced during  his  blindness ;  the  works  are  as  follow : — 

'  Practical  Christianity/  '  An  Enquiry  after  Happi- 
ness/ Five  volumes  of  Sermons,  '  The  Morality  of  the 
Gospel/  '  Christian  Thoughts  for  every  Day  in  the 
Week/  'A  Guide  to  Heaven/  '  The  Duty  of  Servants/ 
and  a  Latin  translation  of  '  The  Whole  Duty  of  Man.5 

Dr.  Lucas  died  in  1715,  and  was  buried  in  Westmin- 
ster Abbey,  but  no  stone  marks  his  resting-place.  The 
opinion  entertained  of  his  writings,  by  the  wise  and 
good,  may  be  gathered  from  the  following  extracts  : — 

Dr.  Doddridge  says,  in  his  MS.  papers  as  given  by 
Orton, — "His  style  is  very  peculiar,  sometimes  ex- 
ceedingly fine,  nearly  approaching  to  conversation; 
sometimes  grand  and  sublime ;  generally  very  ex- 
pressive. His  method  not  clear,  but  his  thoughts 
excellent ;  many  are  taken  from  attentive  observation 
of  life;  he  wrote,  as  entirely  devoted  to  God,  and 
superior  to  the  world.  His  '  Practical  Christianity '  is 
most  valuable,  and  also  his  '  Enquiry  after  Happiness/ 
especially  the  second  volume."  Hervey,  the  author  of 
the  '  Meditations/  also  writes  : — "  May  I  be  permitted 


BIOGRAPHY.  293 

to  recommend,  as  a  treasure  of  inestimable  value  and 
a  treatise  particularly  applicable  to  my  subject,  Dr. 
Lucas's  '  Enquiry  after  Happiness  /  that  part,  espe- 
cially, which  displays  the  method,  and  enumerates  the 
advantages  of  improving  life,  or  living  much  in  a  little 
time,  chapter  iii.  page  158  of  the  sixth  edition, — an 
author  in  whom  the  gentleman,  the  scholar,  and  the 
Christian  are  most  happily  united;  a  performance 
which,  in  point  of  solid  argument,  unaffected  piety, 
and  a  vein  of  thought  amazingly  fertile,  has  perhaps 
no  superior.  Nor  can  I  wish  my  reader  a  more  refined 
pleasure,  or  a  more  substantial  happiness,  than  that  of 
having  the  sentiments  of  this  entertaining  and  pathetic 
writer  woven  into  the  very  texture  of  his  heart." 

Sir  Richard  Steele  and  the  celebrated  John  Wesley 
also  warmly  recommend  the  works  of  our  blind 
pastor. 

The  Rev.  Edward  Stokes,  M.A. 

We  gather  from  a  work,  entitled  '  Biographical 
Anecdotes,'  as  copied  by  Wilson,  that  "  this  benevolent 
clergyman  was  born  in  1705.  When  nine  years  old, 
he  and  his  elder  brother  were  sent  to  school,  but  an 
accident  occurred  about  this  time  which  almost  proved 
fatal  to  him.  As  his  brother  was  amusing  himself 
with  a  loaded  pistol,  it  suddenly  went  off,  and  a  portion 
of  its  contents  lodged  in  Edward's  face;  in  conse- 
quence of  which  misfortune  he  entirely  lost  his  sight. 
As  soon  as  his  health  was  sufficiently  established,  he 
returned  to  school,  where  he  pursued  his  studies  with 
great  success.  From  school  he  went  to  the  university, 
where  he  remained  till  he  took  the  degree  of  Master 
of  Arts ;  he  was  then  admitted  into  holy  orders,  and 
shortly  afterwards  was  appointed  to  a  living  in  Leicester- 
shire as  the  parish  minister.  He  was  beloved  by  the 
people  among  whom  he  lived ;  his  benevolence  knew 
no  difference  between  one  sect  and  another,  but  his 


29'4  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

bounty  was  equally  experienced  by  all.  Notwith- 
standing his  blindness,  he  performed  the  service  of  the 
church  for  many  years,  with  the  assistance  of  a  person 
to  read  the  lessons.  At  his  death,  the  poor  of  his 
parish  had  to  lament  a  most  liberal  benefactor,  who 
had  expended  among  them  nearly  the  whole  of  a  very 
handsome  private  fortune.  He  died  at  the  Eectory- 
house,  at  Blaby,  in  Leicestershire,  June,  I796>  in  the 
ninety-third  year  of  his  age,  and  the  fiftieth  of  his 
incumbency." 

We  believe  the  above  is  the  only  instance  on  record 
of  any  one  being  ordained,  as  a  clergyman  of  the 
Church  of  England,  after  having  become  blind;  and 
although  such  a  practice  is  said  to  be  contrary  to 
canon  law,  yet  the  example  of  Mr.  Stokes  shows  that 
admission  to  the  ministry  of  the  Anglican  Church  of  a 
gentleman  who  has  lost  his  sight  is  not  impossible. 

Sir  John  Fielding,  Knight,  Chief  Magistrate  of  Bow 
Street  Police  Court,  and,  a  Justice  of  the  Peace  for  the 
Counties  of  Middlesex,  Essex,  Herts,  Kent,  Surrey, 
and  for  the  City  and  Liberty  of  Westminster. 

The  eminent  lawyer  and  philanthropist  whose  name 
heads  this  article  was  the  son  of  General  Fielding, 
and  the  half-brother  of  Henry  Fielding,  the  novelist. 
Although  blind  from  childhood,  his  parents  had  him 
trained  for  the  legal  profession,  and  an  amount  of 
success  attended  their  enlightened  efforts  which  will 
prove  a  never-failing  encouragement  to  the  friends  of 
the  blind  throughout  future  generations. 

On  obtaining  the  necessary  qualifications  Fielding  be- 
came a  member  of  the  Home  Circuit,  and  was  the  life 
and  soul  of  the  convivial  meetings  of  the  brethren  of 
the  law ;  and  his  reputation  reached  so  high  a  pitch  for 
more  solid  acquirements,  that  on  the  failure  of  the 
health  of  his  half-brother,  Henry  Fielding,  he  was 
appointed  to  succeed  him  as  magistrate  at  Bow  Street 


BIOGRAPHY.  295 

Police  Court.  This  position  was,  at  that  time,  sur- 
rounded by  peculiar  difficulties,  from  which  the  well- 
paid  and  efficiently  served  administrators  of  the  law  are 
now  happily  exempt.  The  chief  of  these  evils  arose 
from  the  remuneration  of  the  magistrates  being  derived 
largely  from  bribes,  administered  both  by  prosecutors 
and  defendants,  which  laid  the  action  of  the  courts  of 
justice  open  to  grave  suspicion. 

This  state  of  things  Sir  John  Fielding  determined 
should  cease,  and  he  followed  •  out  his  resolution  with 
such  pertinacity  that  a  bribe  soon  became  a  thing 
which  belonged  exclusively  to  past  history.  In  1761, 
soon  after  stipendiary  magistrates  were  appointed  for 
large  towns,  our  blind  lawyer  was  created  chief 
magistrate  of  the  kingdom,  and  received  the  honour 
of  knighthood,  which  distinction  has  been  conferred  on 
each  succeeding  chief  magistrate  willing  to  accept  the 
title.  Fielding's  acuteness  on  the  magisterial  bench 
may  have  been  equalled,  but  has  never  been  surpassed. 
When  any  one  was  brought  before  him,  after  asking 
the  officer  a  question  or  two,  the  whole  history  of  the 
prisoner  rushed  to  his  mind,  all  the  culprit's  aliases, 
his  various  larcenies,  robberies,  cheatings,  and  tricks 
came  to  the  aid  of  the  sightless  dispenser  of  justice  to 
show  him  the  proper  way  to  deal  with  the  case ;  and 
whenever  a  crime  of  more  than  ordinary  atrocity  was 
committed  in  the  metropolis,  or  the  surrounding 
counties,  "blind  Fielding  the  Thief-catcher/'  as  he 
was  called,  was  consulted  by  his  brother  justices,  and 
his  sagacity  was  seldom  at  fault.  But  deeds  of  mercy 
were  more  congenial  to  Sir  John's  nature  than  acts  of 
suppression.  In  the  former  his  soul  delighted,  but  it 
was  necessity  alone  that  caused  him  to  exercise  the 
latter.  He  was  an  active  and  benevolent  promoter  of 
the  Marine  Society  and  the  Magdalen  Hospital,  and 
he  himself  founded,  in  1758,  the  Female  Orphan 
Asylum,  Westminster  Koad,  Lambeth,  which  has  now 
about  a  hundred  inmates,  and  a  capital  of  £50,000.  If 


296  BLINDNESS  AND   THE   BLIND. 

we  are  not  mistaken  this  orphan  asylum  was  the  first 
establishment  of  the  kind  in  the  kingdom,  and  it  is 
certain  that  it  was  the  first  in  the  metropolis. 

Fielding's  conversational  powers  were  of  a  very  high 
order,  and  he  excelled  particularly  in  anecdote.  A 
writer  in  'Eraser's  Magazine'  says, — "  As  a  companion 
Fielding  was  invariably  pleasant  and  inimitably  enter- 
taining. His  conversation  abounded  with  anecdotes, 
of  which  he  had  an  inexhaustible  fund :  his  great  stock 
was  of  Irish  stories,  which  he  gave  with  great  truth 
and  humour.  I  have  repeatedly  heard  him  say 
that  the  lowest  class  of  the  Irish  had  more  native 
humour  than  any  other  body  of  people  in  the  same 
rank  in  life.  He  would  then  relate,  in  proof  of  it,  the 
event  of  a  bet  which  was  made  on  the  subject  at  one 
of  the  club-houses  in  St.  James's  Street,  which  then 
was  crowded  with  English  and  Irish  chairmen,  and 
which  was  to  be  decided  by  the  reply  of  one  of  each 
country  to  the  same  question.  It  was,  '  If  you  were 
put  naked  on  the  top  of  St.  Paul's,  what  would  you  be 
like  ?'  The  English  chairman  was  first  called  in,  and 
the  question  being  put  to  him,  he  ran  sulky,  and  re- 
fused to  give  any  direct  answer,  saying  they  were 
making  fun  of  him.  Pat  was  then  introduced,  and  the 
question  being  propounded  to  him  :  '  What  should  I 
be  like  ?'  says  he ;  '  Why  like  to  get  could,  to  be 
sure,  your  honours.' — 'This,'  says  he,  'they  call 
mother- wit ;  and  the  most  illiterate  have  a  quickness 
in  parrying  the  effect  of  a  question  by  an  evasive 
answer.'  I  recollect  hearing  Sir  John  Fielding  giving 
an  instance  of  this,  in  the  case  of  an  Irish  fellow  who 
was  brought  before  him  when  sitting  as  a  magistrate 
at  Bow  Street.  He  was  desired  to  give  some  account 
of  himself,  and  where  he  came  from.  Wishing  to  pass 
for  an  Englishman,  he  said  he  came  from  Chester. 
This  he  pronounced  with  a  very  rich  brogue,  which 
caught  the  ears  of  Sir  John.  '  Why,  were  you  ever 
in  Chester  ?'  says  he.  '  To  be  sure  I  was,'  said 


BIOGRAPHY.  297 

Pat ;  '  wasn't  I  born  there  ?' — '  How  dare  you/  said 
Sir  John  Fielding,  '  with  that  brogue  pretend  to  have 
been  born  in  Chester/ — 'I  didn't  say  I  was  born 
there/  says  he ;  '  I  only  asked  your  honour  whether 
I  was  or  not/  " 

Fielding,  like  other  intelligent  blind  persons,  could 
tell,  with  tolerable  accuracy,  the  length,  breadth,  and 
height  of  any  room  he  might  enter,  and  could  re- 
cognize immediately  by  the  voice  any  one  whom  he 
liad  once  known.  In  his  carriage  he  had  a  speaking- 
pipe  communicating  with  the  coachman,  and  when 
an  obstruction  occurred  in  the  streets,  he  would  ascer- 
tain from  the  coachman  the  nature  of  the  impediment, 
and  would  call  out  of  the  carriage  window  in  an 
authoritative  voice  to  the  driver  of  any  particular 
vehicle  to  move  on,  which  caused  no  little  surprise  to 
the  by-standers,  and  was  the  occasion  of  some  enjoy- 
ment to  the  author  of  the  joke. 

Sir  John  undertook  the  care  of  the  children  of  his 
half-brother,  Henry  Fielding,  the  novelist,  when  he 
left  England  for  Portugal  in  broken  health,  and  he 
watched  over  them  with  true  parental  care  after  the 
premature  death  of  their  father. 

The  literary  productions  of  this  distinguished  man 
were  : — 

'  A  Plan  for  Preventing  Bobberies  within  Twenty 
Miles  of  London,  with  Advice  to  Pawnbrokers/  '  An 
Account  of  the  Origin  and  Effects  of  a  Police,  set  on 
foot  by  his  Grace  the  Duke  of  Newcastle,  in  the  year 
1 753,  upon  a  plan  presented  to  his  Grace  by  the  late 
Henry  Fielding,  Esq.  To  which  is  added,  a  Plan  for 
preserving  those  deserted  Girls  in  this  Town,  who 
become  Prostitutes  from  Necessity,  1768.'  This  was 
a  small  tract,  8vo.  '  Extracts  from  such  of  the  Penal 
Laws  as  particularly  relate  to  the  Peace  and  good 
Order  of  the  Metropolis/  1761,  8vo,  a  larger  publica- 
tion ;  '  The  Universal  Mentor,  containing  Essays  on 
the  most  important  subjects  in  life,  composed  of  Ob- 


298  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

serrations,  Sentiments,  and  examples  of  Virtue, 
selected  from  the  approved  Ethic  Writers,  Biogra- 
phers, and  Historians,  both  Ancient  and  Modern,' 
1762,  ]2mo.  '  A  Charge  to  the  Grand  Jury  of  West- 
minster/ 1735,  4to,  stated  to  have  been  published  at 
the  unanimous  request  of  the  magistrates  and  jury 
when  Fielding  was  chairman  of  Quarter  Sessions. 
'  Another  Charge  to  the  Grand  Jury  on  a  Similar  Occa- 
sion/ 1766,  4to.  'A  Brief  Description  of  the  Cities 
of  London  and  Westminster,  etc.  To  which  are  added 
some  Cautions  against  the  Tricks  of  Sharpers/  etc., 
1777,  12mo. 

Sir  John  Fielding  died  in  the  year  1780,  regretted 
by  all  who  knew  him,  and  the  blind  should  never  for- 
get that  the  first  chief  magistrate  of  England  was 
without  sight  from  early  youth,  that  he  was  knighted 
for  his  abilities,  that  he  was  a  scholar  and  a  Christian 
philanthropist,  'and  that  in  magisterial  success  he  has 
never  been  surpassed. 

Mr.  William  Pickard,  Solicitor. 

The  subject  of  this  notice  about  the  year  1808  lost  his 
sight  by  a  gun  accident ;  at  the  time  of  the  occurrence 
of  the  melancholy  event,  he  was  under  articles  as  a 
clerk  to  a  solicitor,  and  it  says  much  for  the  courage 
of  the  sufferer,  and  for  the  kind  consideration  of  the 
gentleman  with  whom  he  was  placed,  to  find  that 
after  his  blindness  he  continued  to  serve  out  his 
articles,  and  that  he  was  duly  admitted  as  an  attorney 
at  the  Court  of  Queen's  Bench,  before  Mr.  Justice 
Bayley.  Mr.  Pickard  subsequently  commenced  to 
practise  as  a  solicitor  at  Wakefield ;  and  although  he 
began  his  career  with  very  slender  means,  yet  such 
were  his  business  talents  that  he  overcame  all  the 
difficulties  connected  with  his  position,  and  succeeded 
in  acquiring  a  fortune  of  about  £12,000.  He  was 
never  married,  but  had  two  sisters,  one  of  whom  was 


BIOGRAPHY.  299 

particularly  useful  in  reading  to  him  books  and  docu- 
ments connected  with  his  practice.  Mr.  Pickard  ful- 
filled every  branch  of  his  position  with  zeal  and  assi- 
duity, and  he  even  had  clerks  articled  to  him,  one  of 
whom,  we  believe,  was  Mr.  James  Witham,  who  became 
town  clerk  of  Wakefield.  This  blind  solicitor  died 
about  the  year  1836,  regretted  by  a  large  circle  of 
friends,  and  leaving  an  example  which  ought  not  soon 
to  be  forgotten. 

Mr.  Henry  Brown,  a  Law  Student. 

The  following  account  appeared  in  the  '  Wakefield 
Journal  and  Examiner '  for  March  16th,  1866,  which 
we  give  in  extenso. 

The  writer  says, — "On  Monday  last  the  grave 
closed  over  all  that  it  could  detain  of  Henry  Brown, 
jun.,  who  died  at  the  early  age  of  eighteen,  after  a 
short  but  severe  illness.  I  had  the  benefit  and  privi- 
lege (for  it  was  no  less)  of  his  intimate  acquaintance, 
and  indeed  I  may  say  close  friendship  ;  and  my  know- 
ledge of  him  induces  me  to  offer  you  this  brief  and 
imperfect  memoir  of  him,  whose  loss  is  greater,  not 
only  in  his  own  circle,  but  to  his  native  town  and  to 
the  country  at  large,  than  can  be  readily  understood 
by  that  large  majority  who  remember  only  the  pale, 
calm  countenance,  and  slight  form  of  the  blind  youth 
who  had  grown  up  amongst  them,  but  was  too  modest 
and  retiring  to  claim  any  attention.  He  was  born  at 
Wakefield  on  the  5th  of  January,  1848,  and  gave  early 
promise  of  great  intellectual  superiority,  and  at  the 
same  time  of  considerable  delicacy  of  constitution,  and 
lost  his  sight  before  the  completion  of  his  third  year 
from  ophthalmia  arising  from  dentition.  At  that  early 
age  he  read  well,  and  could  put  dissected  maps  of 
any  country  together  quickly  and  correctly.  I  pass 
over  the  next  two  years  of  distress  and  suffering, 
borne  with  wonderful  patience  and  cheerfulness  by  the 


300  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

little  fellow,  and  of  unavailing  efforts  to  procure  relief 
by  the  late  Mr.  Neill,  of  Liverpool.  At  five  years 
of  age  his  health  was  sufficiently  re-established  to 
warrant  an  attempt  being  made  to  begin  his  educa- 
tion over  again,  and  supply  to  his  mind  the  infor- 
mation for  which  it  thirsted.  Notwithstanding  the 
terrible  disadvantage  under  which  he  laboured,  he 
mastered  the  rudiments  of  general  education  with 
astonishing  rapidity. 

"  Music  also  claimed  a  share  in  his  curriculum,  and 
as  soon  as  the  drudgery  was  past,  his  progress  in  this 
was  as  rapid  as  in  all  other  branches.  At  nine  years 
of  age  he  passed  three  months  in  Liverpool,  to  attend 
the  Blind  Institute  there,  for  instruction  in  certain 
manual  occupations,  not  attainable  at  home.  With 
this  exception,  his  education  was  solely  conducted  at 
home.  So  retentive  was  his  memory,  and  so  won- 
derful his  power  of  realizing  descriptions  and  assimi- 
lating facts,  that  in  a  short  space  of  time  he  became 
a  proficient  in  Euclid  and  mathematics,  including 
geometry  and  conic  sections,  algebra  and  the  higher 
branches.  In  classics  and  modern  languages,  his  pro- 
gress was  on  a  par  with  his  other  studies,  so  much  so 
that  after  one  year  and  a  half  s  study  of  German,  he 
selected  that  difficult  language  for  the  Civil  Service 
examination,  which  he  passed  with  credit  before  the 
completion  of  his  seventeenth  year. 

"  On  the  pianoforte,  and  more  especially  on  the  violin, 
his  performance  was  far  superior  to  most  amateurs  ;  he 
took  on  several  occasions  a  leading  part  in  oratorios  and 
other  concerted  pieces,  and  rendered  the  works  of  many 
of  the  greatest  masters  with  execution,  taste,  and  feeling. 
His  acquaintance  was  so  extensive  and  accurate  with 
chemistry  and  electricity,  that  he  could  lecture  and 
conduct  experiments  requiring  the  most  careful  and 
skilful  manipulation.  In  mechanics  he  was  equally 
well  versed,  also  in  natural  history,  including  physio- 
logy, comparative  anatomy,  and  mineralogy.  In  his 


BIOGRAPHY.  301 

seventeenth  year  lie  was  permitted  by  the  Master  of 
the  Eolls  to  enter  articles  as  a  solicitor,  and  at  the 
time  of  his  premature  death,  had  acquired  a  large 
amount  of  legal  knowledge.  His  judgment  was  clear 
and  sound,  and  his  arguments  logical.  Nor  whilst  the 
intellectual  was  thus  matured,  were  the  moral  and 
religious  elements  one  whit  behind.  He  was  a  calm, 
hopeful  Christian,  an  excellent  son,  dutiful,  obedient, 
and  affectionate.  Like  all  truly  great  minds,  he  had  a 
modest  and  humble  opinion  of  himself,  was  a  tender  and 
true  friend,  and  I  can  say  with  truth,  that  in  a  constant 
intercourse  of  sixteen  years,  I  never  heard  from  his 
lips  one  fretful  complaint  at  his  own  affliction,  one  harsh 
word  about  another,  or  one  expression  betokening 
even  a  consciousness  of  his  own  vast  acquirements. 
Strange  to  add,  he  entered  with  zest  into  manly  sports 
and  pastimes.  With  the  assistance  of  a  groom,  he 
hunted,  and  could  give  a  vivid  description  of  a  run ; 
he  was  a  devoted  and  skilful  angler ;  enjoyed  any 
public  spectacle,  depending  on  description;  and  en- 
tered into  amusements  with  glee  and  spirit.  I  was 
indebted  to  his  clear  explanations  for  much  of  the 
pleasure  I  derived  from  the  late  exhibition,  especially 
in  the  scientific  departments,  as  improvements  in 
telegraphy,  etc.  His  loss  has  left  a  void  in  many 
hearts,  which  Time,  the  great  healer,  will  fail  to  fill. 
I,  who  pen  these  lines,  loved  him  living,  and  love  his 
memory  now.  I  do  not  expect  to  look  upon  his  like 
again,  but  I  would  not,  if  I  could,  recall  to  earth  one 
to  whom,  I  believe,  ( to  die  is  to  gain.'  " 


Music  AND  MUSICIANS. 

"  Such  music 
Before  was  never  made 
But  when  of  old  the  sons  of  morning  sang." 

Milton. 

That  those  suffering   from   blindness   should  have 


302  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

found  music  to  be  at  once  the  greatest  solace  in  their 
misfortune,  and  the  most  accessible  means  of  obtaining 
a  livelihood  in  the  more  respectable  walks  of  life,  can 
scarcely  be  matter  of  surprise.  We  are  told,  indeed, 
that  "  Music  hath  charms  to  sooth  the  savage  breast," 
and  this  being  so,  it  is  no  marvel  that  it  hath  charms 
to  sooth  the  sorrows  of  the  sightless. 

As  health  and  happiness  cannot  be  maintained  with- 
out the  mind  being  brought  into  contact  with  an  ever- 
recurring  variety  of  impressions,  and  as  the  sense  of 
sight  is  the  medium  through  which  the'greatest  amount 
of  change  is  obtained,  it  is  of  the  highest  importance 
that  persons  deprived  of  this  sense  should  become 
connected  with  those  pursuits  which  afford  the  greatest 
compensation  for  their  loss,  and  surely  of  all  occupations 
none  possess  in  this  respect  greater  claims  on  our 
attention  than  music. 

It  will  be  seen  in  the  article  on  begging  how  largely 
music  is  employed  by  seekers  of  alms ;  but  the  use  of 
this  noble  art  is  not  by  any  means  confined  to  that 
much  to  be  pitied  class  of  persons  who  are  obliged  to 
solicit  their  daily  bread  from  door  to  door.  From  the 
earliest  times  music  has  been  practised  by  the  blind 
of  all  ranks  in  life,  and  has  been  universally  esteemed 
as  the  most  precious  consolation  in  their  affliction. 
How  sweetly  Homer  sang,  we  have  already  seen,  and 
our  notice  has  also  been  directed  to  the  way  in  which 
Milton,  Blacklock,  and  others  relieved  their  studies 
by  having  recourse  to  music's  revivifying  strains. 

We  shall  now  therefore  direct  particular  attention  to 
the  capabilities  of  this  art  in  procuring  for  the  blind 
a  respectable  means  of  livelihood.  Before  however, 
proceeding  to  our  task,  it  is  believed  that  the  insertion 
of  the  following  lines  indicative  of  the  attachment  often 
felt  by  the  blind  for  their  musical  instruments,  will  not 
be  out  of  place  here  : — 


BIOGRAPHY.  303 

... 

The  Blind  Girl  to  her  Harp,  l>y  Charles  Jeffreys. 

"  Harp !  my  own  beloved  Harp !  My  fingers  o'er  thee  stray, 
And  wake  the  sounds  that  bear  my  thoughts  to  brightest  realms  away. 
In  sorrow  unto  thee  I  turn,  so  touching  is  fhy  tone, 
That  list'ning  to  thy  fitful  woes  makes  me  forget  my  own. 

*'  I  cannot  see  thee,  but  thy  touch  thrills  through  my  ev'ry  vein ; 
And  feelings  half  forgotten,  start  back  to  life  again ! 
I  sing  of  skies  both  blue  and  bright,  of  flow'rs  of  varied  hues, 
Of  sunny  smiles,  of  beaming  eyes,  and  diamond  glist'ning  dews  : 

"  All  meaningless  would  be  my  song,  and  were  it  not  for  thee ; 
But  thou  dost  well  interpret  all  their  thousand  charms  to  me. 
My  heart  from  sorrow  passes  to  Glory's  proudest  theme, 
And  in  thy  martial  music  ten  thousand  warriors  gleam. 

*'  I  hear  their  falchions  clashing,  I  see  their  banners  wave, 
I  join  their  shout  of  victory,  and  triumph  with  the  brave. 
But  then  a  low  dull  moaning,  falls  from  thy  tuneful  strings, 
And  sympathy  awaketh  her  sad  imaginings  : 

"  I  hear  the  vanquish'd  flying,  I  see  the  wounded  dying, 
And  pity  learns  to  mourn,  too  late,  the  orphan's  and  the  widow's  fate. 
Harp  !  my  harp,  Oh  !  never  more  awake  thy  stirring  thunder  ; 
Nor  nerve  the  warrior's  arm  to  tear  our  dearest  ties  asunder: 

*'  But  be  it  thine  with  gentlest  tone  o'er  sorrow's  bosom  stealing, 
To  wake  the  ruthless  heart  to  love,  and  kindle  human  feeling. 
My  Harp !  my  Harp  !  my  own  beloved  Harp ! 
My  Harp !  my  Harp  !  my  own,  my  own  beloved  Harp." 

Dr.  Kitto  remarks  that,  "  Among  the  mural  tablets 
of  the  ancient  Egyptians  there  is  one  copied  by  Rosel- 
lini  and  Sir  J.  G.  Wilkinson,  which  is  among  the  very 
few  exhibiting  anything  of  character  or  sentiment,  or 
is  able  to  inspire  any  emotion.  It  is  from  the  tombs 
at  Alabastron,  and  represents  a  blind  harper  sitting 
cross-legged  on  the  ground,  attended  by  seven  other 
blind  men,  similarly  seated,  who  sing  and  beat  time 
with  their  hands.  They  are  evidently  professional  mu- 
sicians." From  this  we  learn  that  music  was  at  a  very 
early  date  a  source  of  employment  in  Egypt  for  the 
blind,  who  in  that  country  have  always  been  fright- 
fully numerous.  That  it  was  no  less  a  source  of  enjoy- 
ment is  indicated  by  the  countenances  of  the  men 


304  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

wliich  are  lighted  up  with  animation  and  intense  in- 
terest, while  the  artist  has  contrived  that  not  only  the 
eyes,  but  every  feature  of  the  men's  faces  and  the  posi- 
tion of  their  heads  should  give  unmistakable  evidence 
of  blindness. 

Members  of  the  musical  profession  are  naturally 
divided  into  two  classes,  viz.  compos  ers  and  per- 
formers, and  we  fear  it  must  be  admi  tted  that  blind 
professors  have  far  more  frequently  excelled  in  the 
latter  than  in  the  former  departm  ent.  Why  this 
should  be  the  case  it  is  very  hard  to  say,  especially  as 
the  art  of  composition  seems  to  depend  entirely  on 
the  genius  of  the  composer,  and  does  not  appear  to 
require  in  any  degree  the  possession  of  sight.  No 
doubt  the  difficulty  found  by  th  e  blind  in  transferring 
their  conceptions  to  paper  h  as  something  to  do  with 
the  matter,  but  it  does  not  by  any  means  account  for 
the  paucity  of  really  great  productions  by  the  blind. 

From  what  has  been  said,  it  is  not  wished  to  convey 
the  impression  that  no  good  compositions  have  ema- 
nated from  persons  without  sight,  but  simply  to  express 
regret  that  no  blind  musician  has  succeeded  in  procuring 
a  lasting  reputation  as  a  composer,  and  surely  we  may 
indulge  the  hope  that  the  day  may  come  when  the 
name  of  such  an  one  may  be  found  side  by  side  with 
those  of  Handel,  Mendelssohn,  Weber,  Mozart,  Bach, 
Haydn,  Purcell,  etc.  We  know  that  for  the  last 
few  years  of  his  life  Handel  was  without  sight,  but 
this  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  question  before  us,  as 
his  great  works  were  all  written  when  he  could  see, 
and  he  is  therefore  not  entitled  in  any  way  to  be  con- 
sidered a  blind  composer. 

Of  the  musical  writers  without  sight,  Dr.  Stanley 
holds  the  chief  place,  and  his  biography  will  be  found 
among  the  lives  of  other  musicians,  which  we  shall 
now  proceed  to  lay  before  the  reader. 


BIOGRAPHY.  305 


Franciscus  Salinas,  Professor  of  Music  at  the  University 
of  Salamanca. 

Franciscus  Salinas,  one  of  the  most  eminent  musi- 
cians of  the  sixteenth  century,  was  a  native  of  Spain, 
being  born  at  Salamanca  in  1513.  It  is  said  that  he 
was  blind  from  birth,  and  began  the  study  of  music 
when  quite  a  child.  Nearly  all  his  time  during  youth 
was  spent  in  singing  and  playing  on  the  organ,  and 
when  still  a  lad  he  acquired  a  knowledge  of  Latin  from 
a  young  lady  who,  being  about  to  take  the  veil,  obtained 
from  Salinas  a  knowledge  of  the  organ  in  return 
for  instruction  in  languages.  In  due  time  young 
Franciscus  was  placed  at  the  University  of  Salamanca, 
where  he  devoted  himself  with  success  to  the  mastery 
of  Greek,  philosophy,  and  the  arts.  Want  of  means, 
however,  caused  his  premature  removal,  after  which  he 
was  fortunate  in  obtaining  the  patronage  of  Petrus 
Sarmentus,  Archbishop  of  Campostella,  by  whose  in- 
fluence the  blind  musician  was  lodged  in  the  king's 
palace,  and  when  the  archbishop  was  made  cardinal, 
Salinas  accompanied  him  to  Rome  and  devoted  himself 
for  thirty  years  to  the  study  of  the  works  of  Boethius 
and  the  writings  of  the  ancient  Greek  harmonicians.  He 
subsequently  returned  to  Spain  with  the  intention,  it 
would  seem,  of  ending  his  days  in  his  native  land ;  but 
at  the  end  of  three  years  he  was  recalled  to  Italy, 
where  he  remained  till  an  offer  of  the  professorship  of 
music  at  his  own  University  of  Salamanca,  with  a 
liberal  salary,  induced  him  to  return  to  Spain.  Such 
celebrity  was  acquired  by  this  blind  musician  during 
his  life  that  Pope  Paul  the  Fourth  created  him  Abbot 
of  San  Piaciato  della  Rocca.Salegna. 

Salinas  died  in  February,  1590,  at  the  age  of 
seventy-seven  years,  leaving  behind  him  a  considerable 
reputation  as  a  musical  performer,  various  compositions 
for  the  organ  and  other  instruments,  and  a  great  work 

x 


306  BLINDNESS  AND   THE   BLIND. 

entitled  l  De  Musica/  wliicli  was  for  a  long  time  the 
chief  authority  in  every  country  of  Europe  on  all 
musical  questions.  This  book  contains  a  minute 
analysis  of  all  the  ancient  Greek  writers  on  music,  and 
among  other  things  describes  an  instrument  invented 
by  Salinas  for  demonstrating  the  ratios  of  the  conso- 
nances and  of  the  lesser  intervals.  Dr.  Pepusch 
affirms  that  it  is  to  Salinas  we  are  indebted  for  the  re- 
discovery of  the  true  enharmonic,  which  for  many  ages 
was  considered  lost.  Our  blind  author  in  his  great 
work  also  treats  of  the  temperaments  of  the  organ  and 
other  instruments,  and  makes  many  valuable  remarks 
on  the  nature  and  capabilities  of  the  human  voice. 

It  may  be  observed  that  one  of  the  characteristics 
of  the  writings  of  this  composer  is  the  evidence  they 
afford  that  he  took  nothing  for  granted,  but  adopted 
only  those  principles  which  he  had  actually  proved. 
It  is  this  quality  that  pre-eminentlydistinguishes  Salinas- 
from  his  contemporaries,  and  gives  a  value  to  his 
works  which  the  lapse  of  three  centuries  has  not  alto- 
gether effaced. 

Caspar  Crumbhorn,  Director  of  the  Musical  College  at 
Lignitz. 

This  talented  German  was  born  in  Silesia,  about  the 
latter  half  of  the  sixteenth  century,  and  lost  his  sight 
when  about  three  years  old.  Although  every  depart- 
ment of  musical  science  was  at  that  time  making  rapid 
progress,  Crumbhorn' s  compositions  obtained  great 
applause ;  and  he  eventually  acquired  a  considerable  re- 
putation as  a  performer  on  the  organ,  the  violin,  and  the 
flute,— excellence  in  which  three  instruments  has  been 
seldom  possessed  by  one  man.  The  abilities  of  Crumb- 
horn  obtained  for  him  the  patronage  of  Augustus,, 
Elector  of  Saxony.  But  preferring  his  native  pro- 
vince as  a  home,  he  returned  to  Silesia  and  was  ap- 
pointed organist  of  the  Church  of  St.  Peter  and  St. 


BIOGKAPHY.  307 

Paul,  at  Lignitz,  where  he  also  became  the  chief  di- 
rector of  the  Musical  College,  both  of  which  offices  he 
held  until  his  death,  June  11, 1621,  and  it  may  at  least 
be  affirmed  that  Crumbhorn  left  a  name  as  a  musician 
of  no  ordinary  stamp. 

Carolan,  the  Irish  Composer  and  Harpist. 

Turlaugh,  or  Turlough  0' Carolan,  the  greatest  and 
nearly  the  last  of  the  Irish  bards,  was  born  in  1670,  at 
Nobber,  Westmeath,  and  became  blind  from  smallpox 
at  so  early  an  age  that  colour  left  no  lasting  impression 
on  his  mind.  His  father  was  one  of  those  very  small 
farmers  who  abound  in  the  Emerald  Isle,  and  he 
could  do  so  little  for  his  children  that  Turlough  was 
quite  unacquainted  with  the  English  language  till  very 
late  in  life.  At  the  age  of  twelve  years  he  received 
some  lessons  on  the  harp,  but  scorning  the  rules  and 
the  plodding  of  regular  performers,  he  dashed  off  at  once 
into  the  most  brilliant  and  enchanting  melodies.  It 
seems,  indeed,  that  Carolan  was  a  born  musician  and 
poet,  for  he  was  ready  at  any  instant  to  celebrate  any 
person  or  thing  in  verse,  and  to  compose  thereto  a 
suitable  melody  with  an  instrumental  accompaniment. 
His  first  effusion  seems  to  have  been  in  honour  of  a 
young  woman  named  Bridget  Cruise,  for  whom  he 
entertained  an  ardent,  though  unrequited  affection ; 
while  speaking  of  this  attachment,  it  may  be  as  well  to 
refer  to  an  incident  that  occurred  many  years  after, 
showing,  as  it  does,  the  sensibility  of  Carolan' s  powers 
of  touch.  Having  gone  on  pilgrimage  to  St.  Patrick's 
Purgatory  (a  cave  in  the  Island  of  Loughderg,  Done- 
gal), on  returning  to  the  shore  he  met  several  persons 
about  to  make  the  same  journey.  One  of  these  took 
hold  of  Carolan' s  hand,  which  caused  him  to  start  and 
exclaim, — "  This  is  the  hand  of  Bridget  Cruise/' 
Carolan' s  sense  of  feeling  had  not  deceived  him ;  it 
was,  indeed,  the  hand  of  her  he  had  once  loved  so  pas- 

x2 


308  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

sionately,  which  he  at  once  recognized,  although  he  had 
not  felt  it  for  more  than  twenty  years. 

Soon  after  arriving  at  man's  estate  the  subject  of 
this  sketch  was  united  in  wedlock  to  Mary  Maguire,  of 
the  county  of  Fermanagh,  who  is  represented  by  some 
writers  as  having  been  proud  and  extravagant;  but, 
however  this  may  be,  her  husband  has  left  a  poem  in 
her  honour  of  the  most  eulogistic  character,  which  still 
holds  a  place  among  Irish  ballads.  Soon  after  his 
marriage  the  bard  found  means  to  obtain  a  small  farm, 
near  Moss  Hill,  in  the  county  of  Leitrim,  where  he 
built  a  house,  and  for  a  short  time  lived  more  merrily 
than  wisely,  which  obliged  him  to  give  up  farm- 
ing and  trust  to  his  musical  powers  for  a  subsistence. 
His  subsequent  mode  of  life  partakes  of  the  ro- 
mantic and  the  grotesque,  but  withal  he  found  it 
lucrative  and  enjoyable.  His  habit  was  to  travel 
through  the  country  riding  on  a  good  horse,  attended 
by  an  equally  well  mounted  servant,  carrying  a 
harp;  and  Carolan's  fame  as  a  bard  reached  such  a 
height  that  his  visits  were  hailed  by  the  noble  and 
wealthy  as  those  of  a  guest,  and  the  honour  of  enter- 
taining him  was  often  contended  for  by  influential 
county  families.  Wherever  he  stayed  he  never  failed 
to  produce  a  composition  laudatory  of  his  host,  or  of 
some  fair  member  of  the  household.  The  number  of 
his  musical  productions  is  said  to  have  reached  four 
hundred,  and  although  this  has  been  questioned,  yet 
we  see  no  reason  to  doubt  the  fact,  as  a  harper  was 
found  some  time  ago  in  Dublin,  who  himself  could 
play  one  hundred  of  Carolan's  pieces,  and  who  said 
that  a  great  many  compositions  were  in  existence 
which  he  had  heard,  but  could  not  play.  Besides  bal- 
lads on  love  and  war,  our  musician  devoted  himself 
with  success  to  religious  productions,  in  composing 
which  he  entertained  a  belief  that  he  was  divinely 
inspired.  He  generally  composed  poetry  to  suit  his 
music,  but  as  all  his  writings  are  in  the  Irish  language, 


BIOGRAPHY.  309 

they  have  suffered  much  from  translation.  Some  idea 
of  his  capacity  for  extemporaneous  composition  is 
afforded  by  an  anecdote  which  states  that  being  a 
guest  at  a  house  where  an  Italian  musician  was  also 
being  entertained,  Carolan  expressed  his  annoyance 
at  the  marked  preference  shown  to  the  sighted 
foreigner ;  the  master  of  the  house,  probably  vexed  by 
this  reflection  on  his  humanity  and  patriotism,  replied 
that  "  when  Carolan  could  play  as  well  as  the  Italian 
he  should  be  treated  with  equal  honour;"  the  blind 
bard  no  way  loth  for  the  contest  rejoined  that  "  the 
Italian  might  play  what  piece  he  liked,  and  that  he 
would  undertake  to  play  the  same  piece  after  him,  and 
that  he,  Carolan,  would  then  play  a  piece  which  the 
foreigner  should  be  also  required  to  perform."  The 
trial  of  skill  at  once  took  place  with  a  unanimous  de- 
cision in  Carolan' s  favour.  How  correct  our  bard  was 
in  arranging  his  compositions  in  accordance  with  the 
rules  of  musical  science  the  following  circumstance 
will  show  : — An  Italian  gentleman,  resident  in  Dublin, 
hearing  of  the  fame  of  the  great  harpist,  and  thinking 
that  he  was  only  some  strolling  player  whose  blind- 
ness made  remarkable ;  with  a  view  to  test  his  powers 
sent  to  a  friend  in  the  country  a  mutilated  copy  of  a 
musical  production  of  great  merit,  with  the  request 
that  he  would  ask  Carolan  to  point  out  and  supply  the 
defects,  and  correct  whatever  he  considered  to  be 
errors.  Carolan  after  hearing  it  played  through  once 
said,  "  It  is  an  excellent  piece  of  music,  but  here 
and  there  it  limps  and  stumbles ;"  he  then  made  the 
required  corrections  and  returned  the  copy  to  Dublin, 
which  so  astonished  the  Italian  that  he  at  once  de- 
clared Carolan  to  be  a  thorough  scientific  musician. 

The  wonderful  power  exerted  over  the  feelings  by- 
some  of  the  productions  of  our  blind  composer,  is 
shown  by  the  following  anecdote  : — 

O'Keefe,  the  comedian,  when  bringing  out  in 
London  the  drama  of  Peeping  Tom,  suggested  to  Dr. 
Arnold,  who  had  charge  of  the  musical  arrangements, 


310  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

that  he  should  introduce  a  favourite  air  of  Carolan's. 
The  Doctor  asked  the  name  of  the  air,  when  he  said 
that  it  was  the  "  Irish  Lamentation."  "  And  who  is 
to  sing  it  ?  and  what  are  your  words  ?"  replied  the 
Doctor.  O'Keefe  rejoined,  "  Peeping  Tom,  and  these 
are  my  words, — 

"  Merry  are  the  bells,  and  merry  do  they  ring  ; 
Merry  was  myself,  and  merry  could  I  sing  ; 
Merry  is  your  ding-dong,  happy,  gay,  and  free, 
With  a  merry  sing-song,  merry  let  us  be." 

"  And  this  is  your  '  Irish  Lamentation/ "  said  the 
Doctor,  laughing  heartily. 

O'Keefe  again  sang  the  same  air,  but  this  time  very 
slowly  and  with  great  pathos,  which  so  affected  Dr. 
Arnold  that  it  brought  tears  into  his  eyes  ;  and 
O'Keefe,  in  stating  this  narrative,  adds  that  ' '  it  really 
is  one  of  the  most  plaintive,  sweet,  and  heartrending 
strains  ever  composed." 

That  the  itinerant  bard,  who  was  welcome  alike  at 
every  castle  and  cabin  of  old  Ireland,  should  have 
acquired  a  fondness  for  whisky  can  scarcely  be  matter 
of  surprise  ;  and  although  it  is  mentioned  with  censure 
that  when  injury  to  his  health  from  intemperance  com- 
pelled him  to  abstain  from  his  favourite  habit,  he  was 
frail  enough  to  take  to  it  again, — yet  for  one  in  his  cir- 
cumstances to  have  been  able  to  refrain  at  all,  so  as  to 
reach  the  advanced  age  he  acquired,  shows  a  moral 
principle  of  more  than  ordinary  strength;  and  when 
we  consider  the  extent  of  the  demands  made  on  his 
nervous  system  by  the  astonishing  number  and  variety 
of  his  musical  and  poetical  compositions,  we  are  not 
astonished  that  he  found  it  impossible  to  compose  with- 
out stimulants;  and  as  in  the  case  ofCarolan  there  was 
no  bread  without  music,  and  no  music  without  whisky, 
it  must  be  admitted  that  his  temptations  were  strong 
indeed. 

Carolan   died  in  1738  in  his  68th   year,  his  wife 


BIOGRAPHY.  311 

having  preceded  him  by  five  years.  A  short  time 
before  death  he  called  for  his  harp  and  played  his  well- 
known  "  Farewell  to  Music."  During  his  last  illness 
he  was  an  inmate  of  the  house  of  Mrs.  M'Dermot,  of 
Alderford,  in  the  county  of  Roscommon.  He  was 
buried  at  the  parish  church  of  Kilronan,  Ardagh,  and 
his  admirers  long  pointed  out  the  green  sward  that 
covered  him.  It  is  said  that  when,  for  some  cause, 
the  bodies  in  the  graveyard  were  disturbed,  the 
country  people  selected  a  skull,  which  they  supposed 
to  be  Carolan's,  to  which  they  tied  a  piece  of  ribbon 
to  distinguish  it  from  the  others  that  lay  strewn 
about  the  ground,  but  it  is  to  be  hoped,  for  the  credit 
of  religion  and  humanity,  that  this  story  is  untrue. 

We  cannot,  however,  refrain  from  expressing  sur- 
prise that  a  people  so  much  attached  to  their  country 
and  to  their  national  music  as  the  Irish,  should  allow 
the  resting-place  of  their  greatest  bard  to  remain  un- 
marked by  a  single  stone.  In  connection  with  this 
life  it  may  be  observed  that,  struck  with  the  mar- 
vellous ability  exhibited  in  the  works  of  Carolan,  some 
natives  of  Ireland,  resident  abroad,  raised  funds  and 
forwarded  them  to  Belfast,  for  the  purpose  of  esta- 
blishing an  '  Institution  for  the  Instruction  of  the  Blind 
in  Irish  National  Music ; '  the  undertaking  was  com- 
menced fifty  or  more  years  ago,  and  was  entitled 
'  The  Harp  Society/  it  has  however  ceased  to  exist, 
for  more  than  forty  years. 

John  Stanley,  Doctor  of  Music,  Master  of  tJie  Royal 
Band  and  Organist  at  the  same  time  both  to  the 
Society  of  the  Temple  and  of  the  Church  of  St. 
Andrew's,  Holborn. 

The  eminent  musician  whose  life  is  now  under  re- 
view was  born  in  London'  in  1713,  and  lost  his  sight 
.at  the  age  of  two  years  from  falling  on  a  marble 
hearth  with  a  china  basin  in  his  hand.  His  father, 
who  was  evidently  in  good  circumstances,  thinking 


312  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

to  afford  amusement  to  his  blind  child,  placed  him 
when  only  seven  years  old  to  be  taught  music,  under 
the  care  of  Mr.  Reading,  then  organist  of  Hackney 
Church.  The  progress  of  the  boy  was,  however,  so 
remarkable  that  it  was  determined  he  should  adopt 
music  as  a  profession,  and  accordingly  he  was  placed 
with  Dr.  Green,  to  receive  higher  instruction.  At  the 
age  of  only  eleven,  young  Stanley  obtained  the  ap- 
pointment of  organist  of  All  Hallows,  Bread  Street, 
in  the  register  of  which  church  it  will  be  remem- 
bered is  an  entry  of  the  baptism  of  the  great  Milton, 
and  our  musician  two  years  subsequently  was  elected 
organist  of  the  church  of  St.  Andrew's,  Holborn,  in 
preference  to  a  great  number  of  competitors.  While 
speaking  of  this  church  we  are  reminded  of  a  connec- 
tion that  it  possesses  with  regard  to  a  poor  blind 
strolling  player,  which  it  is  thought  well  to  insert  here, 
as  it  throws  some  light  on  the  state  of  the  blind  in  the 
reign  of  Charles  the  Second,  and  is  moreover  not  with- 
out some  general  antiquarian  interest.  During  the 
prevalence  of  the  great  plague  of  London,  a  poor  blind 
piper,  being  weary  with  his  day's  exertions  in  pursuit 
of  alms,  sat  down  at  the  close  of  evening  on  the  steps 
of  St.  Andrew's  Church,  fatigue  and  gloomy  reflec- 
tions soon  threw  him  into  a  deep  sleep,  and  on  the  men 
with  the  dead-cart  passing  along  Holborn  to  collect  the 
bodies  of  those  who  had  fallen  victims  to  the  fearful 
pestilence,  they  espied  a  human  form  on  the  church 
steps,  and  forthwith  concluding  that  it  was  a  wayfarer 
suddenly  struck  down,  they  seized  the  minstrel  and 
placed  him  in  the  cart.  The  motion  of  the  vehicle,  how- 
ever, soon  awoke  the  piper,  who,  finding  himself  in  such 
a  strange  position,  and  failing  to  make  his  voice  heard, 
seized  the  pipes  and  began  to  make  such  music  as  ho 
thought  might  bring  him  relief;  the  drivers,  horrified 
on  hearing  such  sounds  from  among  the  dead  bodies, 
fled  with  dismay,  swearing  that  Satan  himself  was  in  the 
cart.  Of  course  this  soon  brought  the  poor  blind 


BIOGRAPHY.  313 

man  assistance,  and  his  life  was  thus  saved.  But  to 
return  to  Stanley.  When  twenty-one  years  old  the 
benchers  of  the  Honourable  Society  of  the  Inner 
Temple  chose  him  as  one  of  their  organists ;  and  it  is 
remarkable  to  find  that  he  continued  organist  both  of 
the  Temple  Church  and  of  that  of  St.  Andrew's,  Hoi- 
born,  until  his  death ;  so  that  he  held  both  appoint- 
ments for  upwards  of  fifty  years.  Stanley,  however, 
did  not  confine  his  attention  to  sacred  music,  like  Cas- 
par Crumbhorn,  he  was  not  only  a  good  organist,  but 
could  also  play  well  on  the  flute  and  violin ;  and 
some  idea  of  his  skill  on  the  last-named  instrument  may 
be  gathered  from  the  statement  that  he  included  in  his 
repertoire  all  Corelli's  and  twelve  of  Geminiani's  solos. 
He  was  the  conductor  and  soul  of  the  concerts  at  the 
'  Swan  and  Castle/  in  the  City,  and  when  that  house 
was  destroyed  by  fire,  he  lost  two  violins  of  great 
value.  After  the  death  of  Handel  in  1759,  Stanley 
superintended  the  performance  of  the  oratorios  at 
Covent  Garden  Theatre,  in  which  he  was  at  first  assisted 
by  Mr.  Smith,  and  subsequently  by  Mr.  Lindley. 
This  arduous  undertaking  he  continued  for  upwards  of 
ten  years,  resigning  it  only  within  two  years  of  his 
death,  when  increasing  age  admonished  him  that  his 
career  in  this  world  was  drawing  to  a  close.  His 
abilities  as  an  organist  were  so  great  that  it  was  no 
uncommon  thing  to  see  at  the  Temple  and  at  St. 
Andrew's  thirty  or  forty  organists  waiting  at  the 
close  of  the  service  to  hear  the  voluntary,  and  of  this 
number  Handel  often  was  one.  Stanley's  skill  as  a 
musician  was  such  that,  when  at  a  performance  of  one 
of  Handel's  '  Te  Deums,'  on  finding  the  organ  a  semi- 
tone higher  than  the  other  instruments,  he  without 
any  premeditation  transposed  the  whole  piece  from 
D  into  the  key  of  seven  sharps  major ;  and  it  is  doubt- 
ful whether  there  was  at  that  time  another  performer 
in  the  kingdom  who  would  have  attempted  such  a  task, 
even  though  he  had  previously  written  out  the  whole 
of  the  piece. 


•314  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

Stanley's  principal  compositions  were  :  —  the  ora- 
torios of  'Jephtha'  and  'Zimri,'  and  the  latter  of 
these  was  performed  at  Covent  Garden  during  the  first 
season  of  the  author's  management.  He  likewise  com- 
posed the  music  to  an  ode  performed  at  Drury  Lane, 
in  the  year  1760,  which  was  intended  both  as  an 
elegy  on  the  death  of  George  the  Second  and  a 
•compliment  to  his  successor.  He  also  set  to  music 
a  dramatic  pastoral,  entitled  '  Arcadia,  or  the  Shep- 
herd's "Wedding,5  which  was  performed  at  the  same 
theatre  the  ensuing  year,  immediately  after  the  mar- 
riage of  George  the  Third  and  Queen  Charlotte. 

Stanley  died  the  16th  of  May,  1786,  at  the  ripe  age 
of  seventy -three,  and  was  buried  in  the  evening  of  the 
27th  of  the  same  month,  in  the  new  burial  ground  of 
St.  Andrew's,  which  it  is  believed  is  in  Gray's  Inn 
Lane.  On  the  day  of  his  funeral  a  tribute  to  his 
memory  was  paid  at  St.  Andrew's  Church  by  the  per- 
formance of  a  solemn  dirge  and  after  service,  '  I  know 
that  my  Redeemer  liveth.'  Stanley  had  the  satisfac- 
tion of  receiving  the  degree  of '  Doctor  of  Music,'  and 
for  many  years  he  was  Master  of  the  King's  band,  in 
which  office  on  his  death,  he  was  succeeded  by  Sir 
William  Parsons. 

Stanley  is  pre-eminently  the  model  for  imitation  by 
blind  musicians.  He  was  a  great  instrumental  per- 
former, a  very  creditable  composer,  and  above  all,  he 
conducted  an  orchestra  so  as  to  win  the  respect  and 
admiration  of  the  sighted  performers  who  trusted  to 
his  direction,  and  of  the  public  who,  being  charmed 
with  the  musical  effects  produced,  were  not  careful  to 
inquire  whether  the  company  to  whom  they  owed  the 
pleasure  was  directed  by  a  sighted  or  by  a  blind  man. 

Dr.  Alcock,  the  pupil  of  our  blind  musician,  makes 
a  great  wonderment  about  his  master  being  able  to 
play  at  cards,  and  to  direct  a  person  about  town,  etc. 
But  these  things  are  common  to  the  blind  of  average 
ability  and  education,  and  therefore  do  not  merit 


BIOGRAPHY.  315 

special  notice.  In  addition  to  the  compositions  above 
named,  Dr.  Stanley  wrote  many  psalm  tunes,  among 
which  are  included  those  of  Matthias,  Montgomery, 
Shirland,  and  Warwick.  But  the  composition  which 
will  make  his  name  live  for  ever  in  church  music, 
is  the  psalm  tune  known  by  the  name  of  (  Calvary/ 
and  which  is  sung  to  the  well-known  hymn  for  Good 
Friday,  commencing : — 

"  Hark  the  voice  of  love  and  mercy, 
Sounds  aloud  from  Calvary." 

If  Stanley  had  done  nothing  but  composed  this  tune, 
he  would  not  have  lived  in  vain,  for  it  has  been,  and 
.still  will  be,  the  means  of  opening  the  hearts  of  thou- 
sands to  receive  with  thankfulness  the  message  of 
divine  love. 

Theresa,  von  Paradis. 

This  talented  lady,  who  had  the  honour  of  being 
presented  to  a  greater  number  of  rnonarchs  than  any 
blind  person  who  ever  lived,  was  a  native  of  Vienna,  the 
capital  of  Austria,  where  she  lost  her  sight  at  the 
age  of  two  years  and  eight  months.  The  account 
given  of  this  event  is  somewhat  remarkable;  it  is 
said  that  in  the  middle  of  the  night  a  cry  being  raised 
in  the  house,  of  Murder !  Thieves  !  and  Fire — her 
father  rushed  from  the  bedroom,  calling  for  his  sword 
and  firearms,  and  that  on  his  return  he  found  little 
Theresa  so  overcome  with  fright  that  she  was  totally 
blind.  Her  parents  being  anxious  for  the  child's 
amusement,  had  her  taught  at  the  age  of  seven  years 
to  sing,  and  to  play  upon  the  pianoforte,  and  in  three 
or  four  years  she  was  enabled  to  accompany  herself 
in  Pergolesi's  '  Stabat  Mater/  of  which  composition 
.she  sang  a  part  at  St.  Augustin's  Church,  before  the 
Empress  Queen,  Maria  Theresa,  who  was  so  well  pleased 
with  the  performance  that  she  settled  a  pension  for  life 
upon  the  young  blind  vocalist.  This  introduction  to 


316  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

imperial  favour  was  no  doubt  brought  about  by  the  in- 
fluence of  her  father,  who  held.a  position  of  consider- 
able importance,  being  an  Aulic  Councillor  of  the 
German  empire.  After  studying  music  under  several 
masters  at  Vienna,  Mademoiselle  Paradis  was  placed 
under  the  care  of  Herr  Hozeluch,  who  composed 
several  concertos  expressly  for  her  use/ which  she  per- 
formed with  great  neatness  and  expression.  When 
about  eighteen  years  old  she  was  placed  under  the 
care  of  the  celebrated  Dr.  Mesmer,  the  founder  of  the 
art  which  bears  his  name.  This  assumed  discoverer 
of  animal  magnetism  was  at  that  time  creating  great 
excitement  at  Vienna  by  his  reputed  medical  cures, 
which  induced  the  friends  of  Mademoiselle  Paradis  to 
apply  to  him  for  the  recovery  of  her  sight.  The  ac- 
complishment of  this  he  readily  undertook,  and  that 
he  might  pay  greater  attention  to  the  case  she  was 
admitted  into  his  house  as  a  boarder.  It  being  found, 
however,  after  some  time,  that  the  Doctor  under  va- 
rious pretexts  objected  to  any  one  seeing  the  patient, 
the  friends  became  alarmed  and  demanded  her  resti- 
tution ;  nor  were  their  fears  quieted  by  Mesmer's  state- 
ment that  he  had  recovered  her  sight,  but  that  she 
must  keep  in  retirement  for  a  time,  that  the  cure  might 
be  rendered  permanent.  They  therefore  procured  the 
assistance  of  the  magistrates,  who  took  her  out  of  his 
hands  by  force,  when  it  was  found  that  she  had  no 
more  sight  than  when  she  became  his  patient.  It  is 
however,  stated  on  the  authority  of  an  article  in  the 
'  European  Magazine  '  that  Mesmer  had  the  malignity 
to  assert  that  she  could  see  very  well,  and  that  she 
pretended  to  be  blind  in  order  that  she  might  not  lose 
the  pension  granted  by  the  Empress  ;  and  it  is  added 
that  after  the  death  of  her  patroness  this  cruel  inven- 
tion was  professed  to  be  believed  by  the  Austrian  govern- 
ment, to  afford  a  pretext  for  the  withdrawal  of  the  an- 
nuity; but  this  assertion  requires  greater  confirmation 
than  it  has  yet  obtained.  That  Mesmer  should  persist 


BIOGRAPHY.  317 

in  his  statement  can  readily  be  imagined,  as  it  agrees 
with  what  is  generally  recorded  of  his  life,  but 
that  the  Austrian  government  should  make  itself 
a  party  to  such  proceedings  cannot  be  thought  possi- 
ble, especially  as  the  object  to  be  gained  was  simply 
to  deprive  a  young  musician  of  a  pension  of  a  few 
hundred  francs.  In  1780,  Mademoiselle  Paradis  left 
Vienna,  accompanied  by  her  affectionate  mother,  and 
paid  professional  visits  to  most  of  the  courts  and  large 
towns  of  Germany,  after  which  she  went  to  Paris, 
where  her  performances  attracted  great  attention. 

When  she  had  been  at  Paris  a  few  months  she  came 
to  England,  where,  being  furnished  with  letters  of  intro- 
duction to  her  Majesty  Queen  Charlotte,  to  the  German 
Imperial  Ambassador,  and  to  the  leading  German  musi- 
cians settled  in  London,  she  was  well  received,  and  had 
the  honour  of  performing  at  Windsor  Castle  before 
George  III.  and  his  royal  consort,  and  of  playing  at  a 
grand  musical  entertainment  given  by  the  Prince  of 
Wales  at  Carlton  House ;  she  also  gave  a  public  per- 
formance for  her  own  benefit,  which  was  extensively 
patronized.  In  all  these  efforts  this  accomplished  lady 
acquitted  herself  in  such  a  way  as  to  obtain  the  most 
unbounded  applause  from  her  royal  and  distinguished 
auditors. 

After  staying  in  England  a  short  time,  Mademoiselle 
Paradis  returned  to  France,  and  took  part  in  the  mu- 
sical performances  given  at  Paris  in  1784,  where  she 
played  on  the  pianoforte  and  organ  with  so  much  skill 
that  for  some  time  she  was  the  leading  attraction  of 
the  fashionable  circles  of  that  brilliant  capital.  It 
was  about  this  time  that  she  made  the  acquaintance  of 
Valentine  Haiiy,  the  introducer  of  '  tangible  print/ 
and  the  originator  of  schools  for  the  blind ;  and  it  is 
evident  that  her  example  and  suggestions  had  great 
influence  in  furthering  his  benevolent  designs.  Be- 
fore ending  this  brief  sketch  it  may  be  added  that 
Mademoiselle  Paradis  possessed  a  method  of  emboss- 


318  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

ing  her  own  musical  compositions  by  means  of  a  sys- 
tem of  figured  bass,  but  the  precise  nature  of  the 
mode  adopted  is  unknown.  It  is  much  to  be  regretted 
that  fuller  details  cannot  be  obtained  of  this  lady's  life, 
as  her  great  musical  and  other  abilities,  coupled  with 
rare  opportunities  of  obtaining  the  highest  patronage, 
would  doubtless  furnish  materials  for  a  biography  of 
far  greater  interest  and  utility  than  that  which  is  now 
presented  to  the  reader. 

At  the  commencement  of  the  nineteenth  century 
several  eminent  blind  musicians  held  situations  as 
organists  in  London,  amongst  whom  were  conspicuous- 
Grenville,  Scott,  Lockhart,  Purkis,  Mather,  Stiles,  and 
Warne.  Grenville  was  organist  of  the  Foundling 
Hospital ;  Scott  at  another  period  occupied  the  same 
position,  and  has  left  as  specimens  of  his  compositions 
the  psalm  tunes,  Maidstone  and  Foundling.  Lock- 
hart  has  bequeathed  to  posterity  the  tunes,  Lambeth 
and  Carlile.  Purkis  was  remarkable  as  a  performer 
on  the  apollonicon.  Mather  was  for  many  years  or- 
ganist of  St.  Bride's,  Fleet  Street,  with  a  salary  of  £70 
or  £75  per  annum.  He  was  also  musical  instructor 
at  the  Institution  for  the  Blind,  St.  John's  Wood.  His 
playing  was  very  much  admired,  and  he  was  often  en- 
gaged to  give  organ  performances  in  churches,  and 
to  open  new  organs  in  London,  and  in  the  most  dis- 
tant parts  of  the  country.  He  was  a  musician  from 
infancy,  having  being  appointed  organist  at  the  parish 
church  of  Walthamstow  when  only  eleven  years  old. 
At  one  period  of  his  life  he  was  much  known  as  a 
pianist,  and  his  abilities  as  a  vocalist  and  tuner  of 
pianos  were  of  no  mean  order.  His  pupils  were  very 
numerous,  and  it  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  he  did 
not  place  on  record  the  results  of  his  experience,  as 
from  what  the  author  knows  of  his  wide  range  of 
knowledge,  and  truthfulness  of  character,  he  is  confi- 
dent that  the  history  of  his  life  would  have  been  of 
essential  service  to  the  blind. 


BIOGRAPHY.  319' 

Mr.  Mather  was  a  great  extemporary  player.  He 
composed  much  but  published  little,  and  a  small  piece 
for  the  piano  entitled  :  '  Beautiful  Belles/  is  believed 
to  be  the  only  composition  that  now  bears  his  name. 
Like  Purkis,  he  performed  frequently  on  the  apol- 
lonicon,  which  sometimes  led  to  a  little  rivalry, 
but  few  men  were  ever  more  free  from  vanity  than 
Mather. 

Stiles  was  for  many  years  organist  at  St.  George's, 
Bloomsbury,  and  the  musical  instructor  at  the  School 
for  the  Indigent  Blind,  Southwark,  both  of  which  posi- 
tions he  filled  with  zeal  and  ability.  Not  the  least  pleas- 
ing instrumentalist  of  the  period  under  review  was  Mr. 
Warne,  many  years  organist  of  the  Temple  Church, 
from  which  office  he  retired  on  a  small  pension. 

Notwithstanding  the  many  brilliant  performers  who 
have  existed,  a  strong  and  widely  diffused  prejudice  has 
frequently  been  created  against  blind  organists  :  this 
has  no  doubt  to  some  extent  been  caused  by  the 
occasional  employment  of  inefficient  persons  from 
motives  of  benevolence,  but  the  inference  that  because 
some  blind  persons  are  incapable,  therefore  all  must  be 
inefficient,  is  so  manifestly  contrary  to  the  dictates  of 
reason  and  justice  that  it  may  well  be  matter  of  sur- 
prise that  any  sane  person,  much  less  a  clergyman  of  the 
Church  of  England,  should  be  willing  to  accept  such  a 
notion ;  it  is,  however,  unfortunately  too  true  that  a 
very  large  number  of  educated  men  have  been  found  to. 
adopt  this  absurdity.  To  such  an  extent  indeed  did  it 
prevail  at  one  time  that  almost  every  advertisement  for 
an  organist  contained  the  announcement,  "  No  blind 
need  apply;"  and  writers  in  public  journals  were 
not  ashamed  to  display  their  imbecility,  or  something 
worse,  by  flippantly  arguing  for  the  total  exclusion  of 
blind  organists  from  churches. 

In  December,  1856,  Miss  Northcote  became  a  candi- 
date for  the  situation  of  organist  at  St.  Ann  and  St. 
Agnes,  near  the  Post  Office,  London,  and  a  very  strong 


320  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

party  was  immediately  formed  to  oppose  her  election 
on  account  of  her  blindness.  In  advocacy  of  the 
objects  of  this  party  an  article  appeared  in  the  '  Mu- 
sical Gazette  '  of  December  13th,  1856,  and  the  author 
of  this  volume,  feeling  it  to  be  his  duty  to  reply  to  the 
obnoxious  paragraph,  wrote  the  following  letter,  which 
appeared  in  the  'Musical  Gazette/  December  20th, 
1856  :— 


To  THE  EDITOR  OP  THE  'MUSICAL  GAZETTE/ 

"  Sir, — Having  been  a  subscriber  to  your  generally 
excellent  publication  from  its  commencement,  I  take 
the  liberty  of  informing  you  that  I  was  greatly  sur- 
prised on  reading,  in  your  number  for  December  13th, 
an  article,  the  object  of  which  was  to  show  the  impro- 
priety '  of  electing  or  even  admitting  to  competition 
blind  organists,  under  any  circumstances/  This  you 
endeavour  to  prove  by  entering  into  a  detailed  expla- 
nation of  the  difficulties  to  be  encountered  by  organists 
generally,  in  efficiently  discharging  the  duties  devolv- 
ing upon  them.  Now  it  is  obvious  that  these  difficul- 
ties are  common  alike  to  the  sighted  and  to  the  blind 
organ  students,  with  this  difference,  that  the  latter, 
having  one  sense  less,  are  entitled  to  more  credit  when 
they  succeed  in  conquering  them,  which  you  admit  has 
been  done,  and  which  I  am  in  a  position  to  prove  is 
daily  being  done.  You  passed  a  just  encomium  on 
Mather,  Warne,  and  Purkis ;  but  why  was  the  name  of 
the  blind  composer,  Stanley,  omitted,  to  whose  organ 
performances  Handel  delighted  to  listen  ?  and,  if  those 
blind  professors  were  ornaments  to  the  musical  circles 
of  the  last  generation,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  justice 
and  common  sense,  why  the  blind  of  the  present 
generation  should  be  excluded  from  competition  with 
their  more  fortunate  contemporaries  ?  I  know  that  the 
difficulties  in  the  management  of  an  organ  have  been 


BIOGRAPHY.  32 1 

greatly  increased  by  the  modern  improvements  in  that 
instrument.  But  while  there  are  such  talented  per- 
formers in  our  own  country  as  Messrs.  Creswick,  Prtt- 
chard,  J.  L.  Summers,  Swanson,  and  others,  and  while 
the  musical  services  of  forty  Boman  Catholic  churches 
in  Paris  and  its  environs,  are  conducted  by  blind 
organists,  let  it  not  be  said  that  they  are  incapable  of 
managing  that  noble  instrument.  Hoping,  that  in 
justice  to  our  thirty  thousand  blind,  countrymen,  you 
will  insert  this  communication  in  your  next  number,  I 
enclose  my  card,  and  am,  Sir,  your  obedient  servant, 

"W.  HANKS  LEVY. 

"  Superintendent  of  the  Institution  of  the  Associa- 
tion for  Promoting  the  General  Welfare  of  the  Blind." 

As  our  readers  may  like  to  know  the  result  of  this 
affair,  we  have  great  pleasure  in  being  enabled  to  state 
that  Miss  Northcote  succeeded  in  obtaining  the  situa- 
tion at  a  salary  of  £40  per  annum,  and  that  her  per- 
formances have  given  so  much  satisfaction  that  she  has 
now  held  the  appointment  for  upwards  of  fifteen  years. 
This  success  was  not  sufficient  to  prevent  further 
hostility  and  misrepresentation,  for  in  the  following 
year  a  wholesale  attack  was  made  on  blind  organists 
by  Mr.  Chipchase  in  one  of  a  series  of  articles  which 
appeared  in  the  '  Morning  Advertiser '  under  the  title 
of  '  Music's  Mission/  and  as  the  present  writer  had  just 
succeeded  in  forming  an  association  of  blind  musicians, 
one  of  the  objects  of  which  was  to  counteract  the  evil 
effects  of  such  mischievous  paragraphs,  he  sent  the 
following  letter  to  the  '  Morning  Advertiser/  which 
duly  appeared  in  that  journal. 


322  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

MUSIC'S  MISSION  AND   THE  BLIND. 

To   THE   EDITOR  OF  THE  '  MORNING  ADVERTISER.' 

"  Sir, — Having  the  honour  of  being  the  Secretary  of 
the  ( Association  of  Blind  Musicians/  and  being  myself 
deprived  of  sight,  I  am  impelled  by  personal  feeling 
and  public  duty  to  trouble  you  with  a  few  remarks  on 
one  of  the  most  extraordinary  paragraphs  that  perhaps 
has  ever  appeared  in  your  widely  circulated  journal.  I 
allude  to  the  unprovoked  attack  made  on  blind  or- 
ganists in  an  article  which  appeared  in  your  impres- 
sion on  Wednesday,  November  11,  entitled,  '  Organs 
and  Organists/  which  was  the  sixth  of  a  series  of  letters 
on  '  Music's  Mission/ 

"  The  writer,  after  referring  to  the  prevalence  of  bad 
organists,  defines  the  qualifications  which  he  thinks  re- 
quisite for  the  efficient  discharging  of  the  duties  of  that 
position,  and  then  states,  at  some  length,  the  reasons 
why  the  musical  services  of  the  church  are  so  often 
badly  conducted,  after  which,  in  speaking  of  the  various 
classes  of  unqualified  organists,  he  deigns  at  length  to 
notice  organists  who  are  deprived  of  sight,  when  he 
makes  this  astounding  declaration : — '  And  blind  men 
are  appointed  from  motives  of  charity,  in  which  cases 
the  organ-blower  is  by  far  the  greater  functionary.' 
Now,  Sir,  I  am  bound  to  give  a  positive  denial  to 
this  statement.  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  some 
sightless  persons  hold  their  appointments  more  from 
the  sympathy  which  is  felt  with  their  affliction  than 
from  their  professional  merit,  but  blind  organists,  as  a 
class,  are  not  appointed  from  motives  of  sympathy,  but 
on  the  contrary,  have  more  difficulties  to  contend  with 
in  their  election  than  those  who  see.  Yet,  it  is  not 
enough  that  the  writer  of  this  paragraph  stigmatizes 
the  fifty  blind  ladies  and  gentlemen  who  hold  organist 
situations  in  England,  as  recipients  of  alms,  but  he 
adds  insult  to  misrepresentation.  In  such  cases,  he 


BIOGRAPHY.  323 

says,  '  the  blower  is  the  greater  functionary.'  Oh  !  Sir, 
is  this  the  way  in  which  such  distinguished  musicians 
as  Mather,  Purkiss,  and  Lockhart  are  to  be  spoken  of 
by  the  Chipchases  of  our  day  ?  Is  this  the  reward 
which  the  numerous  blind  musicians  of  the  present 
time  are  to  receive  for  their  labours,  who  spend  days 
of  arduous  study,  and  in  many  instances  nights  of 
racking  anxiety  in  prosecuting  their  favourite  science, 
and  contending  with  the  evils  of  their  position  ? 

"Let  these  questions  be  answered  by  the  public 
generally,  and  especially  by  the  musical  profession. 
What  does  your  correspondent  think  of  the  great 
Handel,  whom  he  professes  to  revere,  attending  fre- 
quently at  St.  Andrew's,  Holborn,  to  hear  Stanley,  the 
celebrated  blind  musician,  conduct  the  service ;  or  of 
Wesley,  Crotch,  and  the  other  eminent  masters  of  the 
last  generation,  affording  their  patronage  to  numbers 
of  blind  organists  ?  These  great  minds,  although  they 
are  not  among  us  to  defend  the  cause  of  the  afflicted, 
yet  speak  through  the  testimonials  they  have  left  be- 
hind them,  and  are  worthily  represented  by  those  emi- 
nent advocates  of  professional  justice,  Goss,  Hopkins, 
and  Turle.  But  if  it  be  said  this  is  all  statement,  not 
proof,  I  reply,  in  brief,  we  have  twenty-iline  blind  or- 
ganists who  hold  situations  in  London,  who  will  be 
glad  at  any  time  to  afford  opportunities  to  impartial 
judges,  if  any  such  there  be  who  need  opportunities,  to 
decide  whether  or  not  blind  organists  are  superior 
functionaries  to  organ-blowers.  But  let  our  depreda- 
tors beware,  for  the  greatest  of  Britain's  poets,  John 
Milton,  has  said, '  And  surely  we,  the  blind,  are  not  the 
least  care  of  God.  Woe,  woe  to  him  who  mocks,  to 
him  who  harms  us !  Us,  whom  the  Divine  law,  the 
Divine  power,  has  not  only  shielded  from  injury,  but 
has  almost  rendered  sacred.  He  seems,  indeed,  to  have 
brought  this  darkness  upon  us,  not  so  much  by  the 
bedirnming  of  our  eyes  as  by  the  overshadowing  of 
His  heavenly  wings ;  a  darkness  which  He  not 

Y2 


324  BLINDNESS  AND    THE  BLIND. 

seldom  illumines  with  interior  and  far  more  gracious 
light/ 

"  Feeling  assured,  Sir,  that  the  columns  of  your  very- 
influential  paper,  which  have  ever  been  open  for  the 
advocacy  of  truth,  will  not  be  closed  to  this  appeal  in 
behalf  of  justice  for  the  30,000  blind  in  the  United 
Kingdom, 

"  I  am,  Sir,  your  obedient  servant, 

"W.  HANKS  LEVY, 

"Son.  Secretary  to  the  Association  of  Blind  Musicians. 
"  Saturday,  A'ov.  14th,  1857." 

The  effect  of  this  correspondence  was  most  gratify- 
ing, for  from  that  time  to  the  present,  a  period  of 
about  fourteen  years,  no  attack  on  blind  musicians 
has  appeared  in  print,  either  in  the  form  of  a  letter 
or  of  an  advertisement. 

The  testimony  in  favour  of  blind  musicians,  afforded 
by  a  letter  from  the  eminent  composer,  and  organist  of 
St.  Paul's,  John  Goss,  is  so  strong  that  we  cannot  for- 
bear inserting  it  in  this  place.  Writing  to  a  friend  in 
1856,  Mr.  Goss  says:— 

"  I  feared  it  would  be  some  time  before  I  should  be 
able  to  call  in  and  hear  your  young  friend  Summers 
play,  but  this  afternoon  I  found  an  opportunity,  and 
can  assure  you  that  I  was  very  much  struck  and  de- 
lighted with  his  performance  both  on  the  organ  and 
pianoforte.  He  played  a  difficult  piece  of  Mendels- 
sohn's in  F  minor  on  the  organ  exceedingly  well, 
managing  hands  and  feet  in  a  manner  that  we  old  ones 
should  very  much  like  to  be  able  to  equal. 

"  I  also  got  him  to  give  me  some  other  pieces, — for 
example,  a  Psalm  tune,  a  chant,  and  Handel's  '  Zadock 
the  Priest/  (the  Coronation  anthem).  In  all  he  showed 
himself  the  skilful  musician. 

"  On  the  pianoforte  he  gave  me  Thalberg's  Grand 
Fantasia  on  airs  from  '  Mose  in  Egitto/  and  very  bril- 
liantly he  executed  it.  He  is  really  an  exceedingly 


BIOGRAPHY.  325 

good  performer  on  both  instruments,  and  his  father 
must  indeed  be  well  satisfied  with  him.  He  has 
capital  instructors,  and  should  he  chance  to  go  on  still 
further  he  will  put  a  good  many  of  us  '  professors '  out 
of  court." 

About  the  year  1787  a  gentleman  named  Cheese  in- 
vented .a  system  of  tangible  musical  notation,  for 
which  he  obtained  the  gold  medal  of  the  Society  of 
Arts,  London,  and  three  or  four  similar  contrivances 
were  introduced  a  few  years  later. 

The  plan  adopted  by  Mr.  Cheese,  and  those  who 
laboured  in  the  same  field,  consisted  of  a  board  four  or 
five  feet  long,  and  from  two  to  three  feet  broad,  across 
which,  running  lengthwise,  were  fastened  a  series  of 
wooden  lines  separated  into  groups  of  five,  like  the 
common  musical  stave ;  the  groups  being  divided  by 
a  line  with  its  surface  somewhat  more  rounded  than 
the  others.  The  lines  were  raised  about  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  above  the  board,  were  about  half  an  inch  wide, 
and  were  placed  at  the  same  distance  from  each  other ; 
holes  were  drilled  both  in  the  lines  and  spaces  about 
half  an  inch  apart,  into  which  were  placed,  at  will, 
wooden  or  metal  pegs,  having  on  their  upper  ends 
various  signs  indicative  of  the  crotchet,  the  quaver,  the 
bar,  etc.  In  some  of  the  methods  signs  were  used 
exactly  resembling  the  common  musical  notation, 
but  in  others  symbols  of  a  plainer  description  were 
employed ;  such  as  a  peg  with  a  square  top,  and  a  peg 
with  a  round  top  being  used  to  indicate  different 
notes.  By  means  of  these  boards  the  blind  were  enabled 
to  arrange  their  lessons  as  read  to  them  by  their  in- 
structors, and  to  study  them  whenever  they  might 
think  fit,  and  we  have  known  several  musicians  of  emi- 
nence who  derived  great  advantage  from  such  contri- 
vances on  commencing  their  career  as  students.  Some 
persons  have  formed  the  musical  stave  by  sewing  pieces 
of  cord  upon  a  cushion ;  the  softness  of  the  cord  and 
the  cushion  allowing  common  pins,  bent  in  the  middle, 


326  BLINDNESS   ANT>   THE    BLIND. 

to  be  thrust  into  them  in  different  positions,  and! 
thus  to  represent  semibreves,  minims,  etc.,  accord- 
ing to  the  direction  in  which  the  heads  of  the  pins 
were  turned.  The  celebrated  Haiiy,  about  the  time 
that  he  introduced  embossed  reading,  commenced 
to  print  common  music  in  relief,  but  his  attempts- 
were  so  defective  that  the  plan  was  soon  given  up. 
Similar  experiments  were  also  made  by  the  Rev.  W. 
Taylor  of  York,  and  by  Mr.  Alston  of  Glasgow  with 
like  results. 

In  1840  a  more  successful  effort  was  made  at  Phila- 
delphia, where  the  first  volume  of  a  selection  of  church 
music  was-  printed  in  relief,  with  type  invented  by 
M.  Snider.  The  tunes  of  this  volume  were  arranged  in 
the  four  voice  parts,  with  figured  bass,  and  words ;, 
the  lines  of  the  staves  were  well  defined,  but  the  notes 
were  somewhat  indistinct.  In  1862,  the  present  wri- 
ter, being  desirous  of  seeing  some  more  effective 
means  exist  for  enabling  the  blind  to  become  efficient 
musical  teachers  of  sighted  pupils,  produced  in  an  em- 
bossed form  the  first  volume  of  Hamilton's  Modern  In- 
structions for  the  Pianoforte.  This  work,  by  placing 
under  the  fingers  of  the  blind  teacher  exactly  the  same 
musical  characters  and  explanations  as  those  read  in 
black  print  by  ordinary  pupils,  enables  him  to  form  a 
just  appreciation  of  the  nature  of  the  difficulties  with 
which  the  sighted  beginner  has  to  contend,  and  to 
offer  such  verbal  explanations  as  may  remove  those 
difficulties ;  it  also  tends  in  no  small  degree  to  create 
confidence  in  the  public  mind,  respecting  the  qua- 
lifications of  professors  of  music  without  sight. 
This  volume  was  printed  from  tin  plates  on  which 
pieces  of  copper  wire  were  soldered.  The  notes  were 
made  higher  and  thicker  than  the  lines  of  the  stave, 
so  that  they  could  be  felt  with  ease ;  the  letter-press 
was  in  the  common  English  alphabet,  greatly  modi- 
fied to  meet  the  requirements  of  the  sense  of  touch. 
Sufficient  demand  for  this  work  at  present  exists  to- 


BIOGRAPHY.  327 

justify  the  author  in  publishing  a  second  part,  but 
other  engagements  render  such  an  undertaking  im- 
possible. Several  persons  have  made  use  of  the  let- 
ters employed  in  different  systems  of  reading  for  the 
blind  to  construct  various  methods  of  tangible  notation. 
The  plan  generally  followed  is  to  indicate  a  given 
sound  by  a  letter,  the  duration  of  the  sound  by  another 
sign,  and  its  pitch  by  a  third  character,  thus : — A 
minim  011  the  first  ledger,  above  the  treble  stave, 
is  shown  by  the  letter  A  and  two  other  characters. 
Although  the  contrivances  above  named,  generally 
agree  in  these  particulars,  yet  they  differ  in  many  other 
respects,  but  the  divergences  are  not  of  sufficient 
importance  to  be  examined  here. 

Among  inventors  of  Tangible  Notation  may  be 
mentioned  Mr.  Frere,  who  about  the  year  1845  pub- 
lished an  embossed  explanation  of  his  system,  to  which 
were  attached  several  psalm  tunes,  and  other  short 
pieces.  He  also  endeavoured  to  raise  a  fund  for 
the  special  object  of  printing  music  for  the  blind, 
but  with  very  little  success.  The  characters  em- 
ployed in  this  system  are  the  same  as  those  used  by 
Mr.  Frere  in  his  mode  of  reading,  and  it  is  singular  to 
observe  that  four  distinct  signs  are  used  to  express 
the  same  note,  according  as  it  may  be  in  the  treble, 
alto,  tenor,  or  bass  clef.  About  the  same  time,  Mr. 
Wood  (late  Master  of  the  Schools  of  the  London  Society 
for  Teaching  the  Blind  to  Read,  then  located  at  Queen 
Square,  Bloomsbury,  but  now  established  at  St.  John's 
Wood)  adapted  Lucas's  characters  to  musical  nota- 
tion, and  printed  some  short  lessons  as  specimens.  As 
however,  three  lines  of  reading  were  required  for  the 
treble  stave,  and  three  for  the  bass,  the  attempt  was 
not  very  satisfactory,  and  was  given  up  for  a  time. 
At  length,  the  inventor  having  received  some  sugges- 
tions from  the  present  writer  respecting  the  way  in 
which  the  music  belonging  to  each  stave  might  be 
brought  into  one  narrow  line  like  common  reading, 


328  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

the  experiments  were  resumed,  and  in  1854  a  volume 
was  published,  containing  a  collection  of  one  hundred 
and  twenty  psalm  and  hymn  tunes,  and  thirteen  chants, 
which  was  very  useful  in  enabling  the  blind  to  sing  by 
touch,  and  to  learn  music  for  themselves.  Great 
credit  is  due  to  Mr.  Wood  for  the  way  in  which  this 
book  was  executed,  and  the  low  price  of  four  shillings 
greatly  enhanced  its  value.  It  is  however  now  out  of 
print,  which  is  very  much  to  be  regretted.  The 
greater  number  of  characters  used  in  Lucas's  system 
consist  of  two  parts,  viz.  a  line  and  a  dot,  and  this 
circumstance  was  taken  advantage  of  in  musical  no- 
tation, to  represent  in  most  cases  the  note  and  its 
time  by  one  character;  e.g.  Lucas's  letter  H  is  a 
perpendicular  line,  with  a  dot  at  the  left  at  top,  and  in 
the  system  of  music  this  represents  F  or  Fa,  a  semibreve, 
the  perpendicular  line  indicating  the  sound  F  or  Fa, 
and  the  dot  at  the  left  at  top,  showing  it  to  be  a 
semibreve.  Mr.  Wood  also  invented  an  appliance  for 
writing  Lucas's  characters,  which  was  available  for 
music.  Mr.  G.  A.  Hughes,  about  the  year  1848,  adapted 
his  system  of  embossed  reading  to  music,  but  very 
little  success  attended  his  efforts.  Mr.  Moon,  of 
Brighton,  has  also  employed  his  alphabet  for  the  same 
purpose,  but  only  a  few  psalm  tunes  have  been  issued. 
Besides  the  common  system  of  musical  notation,  seve- 
ral plans  have  been  devised  in  France  for  the  same 
purpose.  In  that  of  M.  Rousseau,  the  common  let- 
ters are  used  to  indicate  sounds,  and  other  characters 
are  employed  to  mark  the  signs  of  time,  etc.  M. 
Braille,  soon  after  inventing  his  system  of  pointed 
writing  and  reading,  adapted  his  alphabet  to  musical 
purposes  with  great  success,  and  this  mode  prevails 
not  only  in  France,  but  also  in  Belgium,  Switzerland, 
Spain,  Brazil,  in  some  parts  of  Germany  and  the 
United  States,  and  it  is  not  altogether  unknown  in 
England.  M.  Gaudet  has  produced  a  method  by  the 
union  of  the  inventions  of  Messrs.  Rousseau  and  Braille, 


BIOGRAPHY.  329 

but  we  believe  that  no  books  have  appeared  embossed 
on  the  plan.  M.  Braille's  mode  has  many  advantages, 
but,  as  it  is  entirely  composed  of  one  kind  of  dot,  the 
absence  of  variety  prevents  easy  and  fluent  reading. 
The  fact,  however,  that  it  is  capable  of  being  printed 
by  hand  is  of  great  importance,  as  at  institutions  it 
enables  pupils  to  emboss  music,  and  lend  the  copies 
among  themselves,  and  in  this  way  works  may  be 
greatly  multiplied,  as  he  who  has  borrowed  a  book,  or  a 
piece  of  music,  can  copy  it  for  himself  before  returning 
the  original.  Mr.  Mahony,  of  the  United  States,  has 
also  contrived  a  system,  consisting  of  a  combination  of 
the  ordinary  musical  notes,  and  the  letters  and.  figures 
of  the  alphabet,  which  are  arranged  above  and  below 
a  line,  but  the  details  are  too  intricate  to  meet  the 
necessities  of  the  case.  We  must  not  omit  to  mention 
the  plan  introduced  by  D.  Pedro  Llorens,  Professor 
of  Music  at  the  School  for  the  Blind  at  Barcelona, 
which  consists  of  curved  and  straight  lines  and 
dots  in  various  positions,  so  arranged  as  to  indicate 
the  different  musical  signs.  And  mention  must  also 
be  made  of  a  system  invented  by  D.  Abreu,  of  Madrid, 
which  resembles  very  much  the  method  of  M.  Braille. 
Some  sixteen  years  ago,  the  writer  adopted  a  mode 
of  musical  notation,  which  made  the  appliance  for 
enabling  pei^sons  to  write  with  pin  type,  so  that  their 
letters  may  be  read  by  the  blind,  and  by  the  sighted, 
also  available  for  music.  The  first  seven  letters  of  the 
alphabet  represented  the  musical  sounds  of  the  same 
names,  and  the  various  signs  of  time  were  indicated  by 
the  same  letters  being  placed  in  different  positions, 
e.g.  the  letter  C,  when  placed  in  its  ordinary  posi- 
tion, with  the  opening  to  the  right  hand,  indicated  C 
a  crotchet ;  when  the  opening  was  to  the  left,  C  a  mi- 
nim ;  when  the  opening  was  turned  upwards,  it  was 
C  a  semibreve,  and  when  downwards,  C  a  quaver. 
The  other  marks  were  equally  simple,  and  the  arrange- 
ment has  been  found  of  service  by  several  persons 


330  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

who  use  the  writing  desk.  The  author  has  also  con- 
trived a  plan  by  which  the  arithmetical  apparatus  ex- 
plained in  the  appendix  is  capable  of  being  used 
as  a  music  board.  By  this  method  musical  compo- 
sitions may  be  set  down  in  as  short  a  time  as  they 
can  be  written  by  a  sighted  person,  and  it  also 
possesses  the  advantage  of  enabling  embossed  copies 
to  be  taken  when  required.  It  is  much  to  be  re- 
gretted that  writing  music  by  means  of  electricity 
has  not  been  brought  to  such  perfection  as  to  place 
it  within  the  reach  of  the  public  at  large,  for  in 
such  a  case  the  blind  would  be  great  gainers,  as 
by  simply  playing  any  piece  on  a  musical  instrument 
the  composition  would  be  indelibly  recorded  in  print. 
More  than  one  machine  has  been  introduced  for  this 
purpose,  and  we  are  at  a  loss  to  know  what  prevents 
the  full  development  of  the  scheme.  Surely  writing 
music  is  not  a  greater  undertaking  than  sending  a  mes- 
sage round  the  globe  in  an  instant  of  time.  And  here 
we  insert  a  brief  notice  that  appeared  in  the  journals 
of  July  1863,  respecting  an  apparatus  for  printing 
music  by  electricity,  which  is  as  follows : — 

"The  Electro-Magnetic  Phonoscope.  —  A  musical 
machine,  for  registering  music  instantaneously  as 
played,  has  been  invented  by  Mr.  J.  Beverley  Fenby, 
of  Bute  Villa,  St.  John's,  Worcester ;  according  to  the 
local  '  Herald.'  The  machine  is  small,  and  its  motive 
power  is  electro-magnetic,  produced  by  a  voltaic  bat- 
tery, and  working  in  a  manner  analogous  to  the  print- 
ing-telegraph. The  machine  having  been  placed  en 
rapport  with  the  instrument  to  be  played  upon,  say 
pianoforte,  harmonium,  or  organ,  the  player  manipu- 
lates the  keys  in  the  usual  manner,  and  the  machine 
prints  his  performance  as  he  goes  along,  at  a  speed 
proportionate  to  his  playing,  the  usual  rate  being 
fifteen  inches  of  paper  per  minute.  The  printed  no- 
tation is  identical  with  that  already  in  use,  the  only 
difference  being  that  the  heads  of  the  notes  are  square 


BIOGRAPHY.  331 

instead  of  round.  The  printing,  adds  our  authority,  is 
clear  and  well  defined,  and  the  performer  feels  not  the 
least  impediment  or  hindrance  to  his  playing  from  the 
machine,  however  rapid  or  complicated  his  ideas  may 
be.  The  performer  may  compose,  play,  and  print  at 
one  and  the  same  time. 

"  The  patent  for  the  invention  has  just  passed  the 
great  seal." 

Of  the  various  branches  of  the  musical  profession 
open  to  the  blind,  not  the  least  profitable  is  that  of 
tuning  pianofortes,  and  although  less  attention  has 
been  paid  to  the  subject  in  this  country  than  it  de- 
serves, yet  many  persons  have  followed  it  with  profit, 
and  some  have  even  acquired  a  considerable  reputation 
in  its  practice.  Among  the  most  successful  tuners 
must  undoubtedly  be  reckoned  Mr.  Limpus,  late  of 
Isleworth,  whose  regular  practice  included  the  prin- 
cipal towns  within  twenty  miles  of  the  metropolis,  and 
was  sufficiently  remunerative  to  enable  him  to  keep  a 
servant  and  a  horse  and  chaise  for  professional  pur- 
poses. Mr.  Limpus  taught  several  blind  persons  the 
art  of  tuning,  in  connection  with  the  Association  of 
Blind  Musicians,  and  this  example  has  since  been  fol- 
lowed by  more  than  one  institution.  Some  years  ago, 
the  Messrs.  Broadwood,  it  is  believed,  gave  regular 
employment  to  a  blind  man  as  a  tuner,  who  travelled 
the  country  as  a  representative  of  the  firm.  Messrs. 
Mather,  Warne,  Wright,  and  Fitzgerald  also  excelled 
in  this  art,  and  were  quite  equal  to  any  of  their 
sighted  competitors.  To  succeed  in  this  branch  of  the 
musical  profession,  it  is  desirable  that  a  person  should 
have  a  mechanical  turn  as  well  as  a  correct  ear,  that  he 
may  be  enabled  to  put  on  strings,  mend  hammers,  and 
attend  generally  to  the  action  of  instruments,  without 
being  obliged  to'  call  in  the  aid  of  a  sighted  helper.  A 
small  book  is  published  by  Messrs.  Cocks  and  Co.,  of 
New  Burlington  Street,  entitled,  '  Hamilton's  Art  of 
Tuning  the  Pianoforte/  which,  as  it  contains  much 


332  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

useful  information,  we  venture  to  recommend  to  the 
notice  of  those  interested  in  the  subject.  To  be  a  suc- 
cessful tuner  it  is  not  necessary  that  a  person  should 
have  what  is  generally  called  a  good  musical  ear,  for 
excellence  depends  more  on  the  correctness  acquired 
by  practice,  than  upon  any  natural  acuteness  of  the 
auditory  nerve ;  in  fact,  those  who  have  great  quick- 
ness of  hearing  are  often  indifferent  tuners.  The  prac- 
tice of  the  art,  however,  makes  great  demands  on  the 
nervous  system,  and  should  not  be  followed  by  any  one 
having  a  weakness  in  that  direction.  It  has  often 
struck  us  that  much  difficulty  might  be  saved  if  (in- 
stead of  tuning  in  the  ordinary  way  by  bearings)  a 
fork  were  used  for  every  note ;  in  this  way  only  twelve 
forks  would  be  required,  and  while  certainty  would  be 
guaranteed,  the  trouble  would  be  greatly  lessened.  The 
plan  would  not  at  all  interfere  with  the  system  of  equal 
temperament,  as  the  tuning-forks  might  be  made  of 
the  required  tones.  In  France  great  attention  has 
been  paid  to  the  subject  of  tuning,  and  one  of  the  late 
pupils  of  the  Paris  Institution  for  the  Blind,  M.  Montal. 
has  not  only  reached  great  excellence  in  that  art,  but 
has  also  acquired  a  considerable  reputation  as  a  manu- 
facturer of  musical  instruments.  He  obtained  a  medal 
of  the  first  class  at  the  Paris  International  Exhibition  of 
1855.  He  also  had  the  honour  of  being  appointed 
pianoforte  maker  to  the  Emperor  Napoleon  and  the 
Emperor  of  Brazil,  and  he  was  created  a  Chevalier 
of  the  Legion  of  Honour  of  France,  and  of  the  order 
of  the  Rose  of  Brazil.  How  much  of  the  handicraft- 
work  connected  with  pianofortes  was  done  by  Montal 
himself  we  are  unable  to  say,  as  he  employed  many 
sighted  workmen ;  but  his  success  as  a  manufacturer 
is  worthy  of  the  highest  praise.  A  few  persons  have 
obtained  a  moderate  degree  of  success  as  blind  voca- 
lists, but  efforts  in  this  direction,  for  the  most  part, 
have  proved  failures.  Why  this  should  be,  appears  at 
first  sight  somewhat  strange,  as  the  absence  of  vision 
interferes  in  no  way  with  the  action  of  the  voice. 


BIOGRAPHY.  333 

On  considering  the  subject,  however,  we  find  that 
there  are  certain  matters  of  detail,  which  fully  account 
for  the  circumstance.  The  object  of  an  audience  in 
attending  a  concert  is  to  obtain  as  great  an  amount  of 
pleasure  as  possible,  and  it  must  be  admitted  that  con- 
tact with  affliction  in  any  form  is  ill  calculated  to  pro- 
mote the  kind  of  pleasure  sought,  and  it  is  therefore 
matter  of  surprise  that  whenever  a  vocalist  without 
sight  has  been  announced,  his  blindness  has  been 
made  a  prominent  feature  of  the  placard.  Of  course 
the  idea  has  been  to  excite  sympathy,  but  that  is  just 
what  people  want  to  have  nothing  to  do  with  in  a  con- 
cert room.  Why  should  not  blind  vocalists  take  their 
stand  like  other  persons,  simply  on  their  professional 
merits  ?  We  believe  that,  if  such  a  course  were  adopted, 
success  in  this  department  would  be  much  more  fre- 
quent. The  use  of  coloured  spectacles  would  aid  very 
much  in  this  endeavour ;  and,  so  far  from  making  their 
misfortune  known,  the  blind  should  do  all  in  their 
power  to  conceal  it,  for  it  should  be  remembered  that 
patronage  always  comes  to  the  strong,  and  avoids  the 
weak,  and  that  as  far  as  men  are  concerned  we  should 
conceal  our  defects  and  make  the  public  feel  the  force 
of  our  excellences.  In  Paris  there  is  an  entertain- 
ment given  every  evening  at  a  public  room,  named  the 
Cafe  des  Aveugles ;  but  all  that  the  blind  have  to  do 
in  the  matter  is  to  perform  the  orchestral  parts.  There 
are  burlesques,  stage-plays  without  scenery,  and  vocal 
performances ;  but  those  who  take  part  in  them  can 
see.  The  blind  musicians  are  miserably  paid,  and  we 
believe  that  the  moral  repute  of  the  house  is  far  from 
good.  Brass  and  string  bands  have  been  established 
in  various  blind  schools,  but  the  pecuniary  results  of 
such  undertakings  have  been  meagre  in  the  extreme, 
and  with  regard-to  the  use  of  brass  bands  it  may  be 
stated  that  as  the  use  of  wind  instruments  is  very  in- 
jurious to  the  nervous  system,  and  as  the  blind  generally 
are  very  sensitive  in  this  direction,  any  great  develop- 
ment of  such  enterprises  is  not  to  be  desired. 


334  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 


SCULPTORS  AND  THEIR  ART. 

The  sculptor's  art  seems  to  depend  so  much  upon 
the  sense  of  touch,  that  it  is  matter  of  surprise  that  its 
practice  by  the  blind  is  not  of  more  common  occur- 
rence. Perhaps  this  may  be  accounted  for  by  want 
of  opportunity,  for,  with  the  exception  of  the 
Italians,  it  is  not  at  all  an  easy  thing  for  any  one  to 
obtain  admission  to  a  sculptor's  studio  to  examine  the 
artistic  processes  there  carried  on. 

Under  these  circumstances,  we  are  not  surprised  to 
find  that  although  some  persons  without  sight  have 
reached  great  excellence  in  sculpture,  yet  the  number 
of  such  artists  is  very  small.  Towards  the  end  of  the 
seventeenth  century,  Roger  de  Piles,  the  eminent 
French  painter,  saw  in  Italy  a  blind  man,  about  fifty 
years  old,  in  the  Justinian  Palace,  modelling  in  wax  a 
statue  of  Minerva. 

The  Duke  of  Bracciano,  having  some  doubt  of  his 
being  blind,  caused  him  to  perform  his  work  in  a 
cellar.  But  this  only  served  to  show  still  more 
strikingly  the  force  of  his  genius,  as  the  bust  exe- 
cuted in  the  dark  apartment  was  a  perfect  imitation  of 
the  original,  who  was  none  other  than  the  duke  him- 
self, who  had  allowed  the  sightless  artist  minutely  to 
examine  his  features.  It  having  been  remai-ked 
that  the  abundance  of  hair  on  the  duke's  face  made 
it  much  more  easy  to  copy  than  if  such  an  append- 
age were  wanting,  the  blind  sculptor  requested  and 
obtained  permission  to  examine  the  face  of  one  of 
the  duke's  daughters,  of  which  he  succeeded  in  mak- 
ing an  exact  resemblance.  This  artist  also  success- 
fully executed  a  statue  of  Charles  I.  of  England, 
and  one  of  Pope  Urban  VIII.,  which  have  been  highly 
commended.  Many  persons  suppose  that  the  sculptor 
to  whom  reference  has  been  made  is  the  same  as 
some  writers  describe  under  the  name  of  Giovani 
Gonnelli,  sometimes  called  Gambasius,  or  Gambasio, 


BIOGRAPHY.  335 

after  the  place  of  his  nativity,  a  small  town  in  what 
was   formerly   the  Grand    Duchy    of   Tuscany.       It 
is  said  that  he  lost  his  sight  at  the  age    of  twenty 
and  remained  unoccupied  for  ten  years,  when,  on  a 
sudden,  he  became  possessed  with  a  strong  desire  to 
model  a  figure,  and,  although  he  had  never  been  taught 
the  elements  of  sculpture,  he  succeeded  so  well  as  to 
astonish  the  most  accurate  judges  in  Italy,  which  is 
pre-eminently  the  land  of  art.     He  obtained  the  pa- 
tronage of  the  Grand  Duke  of  Tuscany,  and  of  other 
illustrious  personages.     Dr.  Guillie,  in  his  work  on  the 
blind,  mentions,  as  an  instance  of  an  eminent  sculptor, 
the  case  of  M.  Baret,  who,  about  the  beginning  of  the 
nineteenth  century,  having  become  blind  from  small- 
pox at  the  age  of  twenty-five,  continued  to  practise  his 
profession,  and  executed  works  which  were  the  admira- 
tion of  the  members  of  the  French  Academy.     Early 
in  the   present  century  was  born  Joseph  Kleinhans. 
He  was  a  native  of  the  Tyrol,  in  the  Austrian  empire, 
and  lost  his  sight  from  smallpox  at  the  age  of  five 
years.       He  early  evinced    a   strong    inclination    for 
carving,  which  he  manifested  by  cutting  figures  out  of 
stray  pieces  of  wood  that  fell  in  his  way.     Before  the 
age  of  twelve  years  he  executed  a  figure  of  the  Saviour 
of  life-size,  which  so  astonished  his  friends,  that  they 
placed  him  under  the  instruction  of  Herr  Nissl,  an  ac- 
complished artist  of  Fugan,  in  whose  studio  he  soon 
reached  great  perfection   as  a  modeller   and   carver, 
and  subsequently  became  famous  throughout  Germany 
as    the  "Blind   Sculptor."      Kleinhans'   works   were 
both  numerous  and  varied,  and  it  is  said  that  he  exe- 
cuted more  than  four  hundred  statues  of  the  Saviour, 
which  still  exist.     One  of  his  principal  works  was  a 
bust    of   Francis   Joseph,   the    present   Emperor    of 
Austria,  which  has  been  generally  admired,  and  is  now 
preserved  at  Vienna.    This  production  our  blind  artist 
completed  only  two  months  before  his  death,  which 
occurred  at  Nauders,  on  July  10,  1853. 


336  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

From  the  incidents  mentioned  in  this  article  we 
think  it  may  be  gathered  that  every  facility  should 
be  put  in  the  way  of  the  blind  to  enable  them  to  de- 
velope  any  latent  talent  they  may  possess  for  the  cul- 
tivation of  the  various  branches  of  sculpture,  and 
that  modelling  in  clay  and  wax,  and  carving  in  wood, 
are  quite  within  their  reach,  to  which,  perhaps,  may 
also  be  added  the  execution  of  works  in  marble. 

The  sculptor's  art  is  fitted  to  be  an  occupation  for 
the  well-to-do  blind,  and  should  be  made  one  of  the 
branches  of  their  general  education.  For  any  one 
possessed  of  moderate  taste  it  would  be  a  very  plea- 
surable employment,  and  for  those  exhibiting  decided 
talent  it  might  become  a  source  of  profit. 

THE  BLIND  EMINENT  IN  TRADE  AND  MANUFACTURES. 
John  Metcalf,  the  Builder  and  Contractor,  etc. 

John  Metcalf,  the  greatest  blind  mechanic  who  ever 
lived,  was  born  at  Knaresborough,  in  Yorkshire,  on  the 
15th  of  August,  1717,  and,  according  to  his  autobio- 
graphy, was  put  to  a  common  school  when  four  years 
old  by  his  parents,  of  whom  he  speaks  as  being 
"  working  people."  At  the  age  of  six  he  was  attacked 
by  smallpox,  which  resulted  in  total  blindness.  He 
soon,  however,  began  to  walk  alone,  and  before  the  age 
of  nine  could  find  any  part  of  his  native  town  without  a 
guide  ;  going  birds'-nesting  with  boys  of  his  own  age, 
climbing  trees,  and  finding  the  nests  by  direction  of 
his  companions,  were  among  his  favorite  pastimes. 
He  often  wandered  alone  three  or  four  miles  into  the 
country,  and  as  his  father  kept  horses,  he  soon  learnt 
to  ride,  in  which  he  acquired  such  excellence  that  he 
took  to  following  the  hounds.  A  gentleman  of  the 
neighbourhood,  named  Woodburn,  was  very  kind  to 
Metcalf,  in  taking  him  to  hunt,  and  lending  him  his 
dogs  to  go  out  at  night  when  the  hares  were  feeding, 


BIOGRAPHY.  337 

which  Metcalf  frequently  did  unattended  by  any  human 
companion.  When  about  fourteen  years  old,  his  en- 
joyment of  life  was  so  great,  and  his  experience  of  the 
world  so  little,  that  he  considered  the  loss  of  sight  to 
be  an  advantage  rather  than  a  defect.  He  was  soon, 
however,  convinced  of  his  mistake  by  the  following 
circumstance  : — Being  engaged  with  some  of  his  com- 
panions in  robbing  an  orchard,  and  surprised  by  the 
owner,  his  associates  made  off  as  fast  as  their  legs 
would  carry  them ;  but  Metcalf,  being  up  a  plum-tree, 
and  unable  to  perceive  the  direction  the  farmer  was 
taking,  or  the  obstacles  that  lay  in  the  way  of  his  own 
escape,  had  scarcely  reached  the  ground,  when  he  fell 
headlong  into  a  gravel-pit,  and  so  cut  his  face  that  he 
was  afraid  to  venture  home  for  fear  of  his  father's 
chastisement. 

At  the  age  of  fourteen  he  learnt  to  swim,  and  was 
often  employed  to  rescue  property  lost  in  the  river 
Nid,  and  to  recover  the  bodies  of  drowned  persons ; 
which  were  performances  of  great  difficulty,  on  account 
of  the  peculiar  circumstances  connected  with  the  river. 
To  dive  to  the  depth  of  twenty-one  feet,  in  places 
where  the  currents  opposed  each  other  so  much  that  the 
lightest  objects  sunk  permanently  to  the  bottom,  was 
one  of  Metcalf  s  special  exploits.  At  the  age  of  thir- 
teen his  father  had  him  taught  the  violin,  and  the 
youth,  having  become  tolerably  proficient  in  country- 
dance  music,  attended  the  fortnightly  meetings  at  the 
Knaresborough  Assembly  Rooms,  and  also  performed 
at  other  places  where  dancing  was  practised.  In  1732, 
when  only  fifteen  years  old,  he  was  invited  to  be- 
come violinist,  or  as  he  himself  puts  it,  '  fiddler'  at  the 
fashionable  watering-place  of  Harrogate,  in  which 
position  he  gave  great  satisfaction ;  the  orchestra  con- 
sisting only  of  himself  and  a  youth  who  could  see.  As 
these  musical  engagements  were  principally  in  the 
evening,  he  had  ample  time  during  the  day  to  devote 
himself  to  his  favourite  pastime  of  hunting,  to  which 


338  BLINDNESS  AND  THE   BLIND. 

was  added  that  of  racing,  he  having  bought  a  horse- 
which  often  ran  for  small  plates.  It  must  not,  how- 
ever, be  supposed  that  MetcalPs  early  life  was  passed 
in  uninterrupted  virtuous  activity,  for  we  find  that  he 
was  addicted  to  cock-fighting,  and  was  a  great  fre- 
quenter of  pot-houses.  We  may  note  that  at  the  age 
of  twenty-one  he  was  six  feet  in  height,  and  stout  in 
proportion.  He  had  the  reputation  of  being  a  good 
boxer,  but  he  only  employed  the  art  in  self-defence. 
Being  summoned  before  the  magistrates,  on  account  of 
an  affiliation  case,  Metcalf  fled,  and  took  passage  in  a 
vessel  laden  with  alum,  bound  from  Whitby  to  London, 
in  which  latter  place  he  stayed  some  time,  and  acquired 
much  desultory  information. 

In  London  he  made  himself  known  to  many  gentle- 
men who  had  patronized  his  musical  performances  at 
Harrogate,  and  among  others  to  Colonel  Liddell,  M.P, 
for  Berwick-on-Tweed.  This  gentleman,  being  about 
to  return  to  Harrogate,  offered  Metcalf  a  seat  in  his- 
coach;  but  he,  thanking  the  Colonel,  declined  the 
offer,  saying  that  he  could  walk  as  far  in  a  day  as  he, 
the  Colonel,  could  choose  to  travel.  Accordingly,  on  a 
given  day,  the  Colonel  and  suite,  consisting  of  sixteen 
servants  on  horseback,  set  off,  Metcalf  starting  about 
an  hour  before  them,  and  arriving  every  evening  at 
the  appointed  halting-place  sufficiently  early  before  the 
Colonel  and  his  escort  to  enable  the  hotel-keepers  to 
prepare  for  their  guests.  On  arriving  at  Harrogate,  he 
found  that  things  had  settled  down,  which  quite  re- 
lieved him  from  further  apprehension.  We  now  ap- 
proach a  crisis  in  Metcalf's  history.  He  had  long  been 
attached  to  a  daughter  of  the  landlord  of  the  Eoyal 
Oak — afterwards  called  the  Granby — at  Harrogate,  and 
his  affection  was  fully  returned  by  the  young  lady,  but 
the  disparity  in  their  circumstances  prevented  'any 
avowal  of  regard.  So  little,  indeed,  was  any  engage- 
ment considered  likely,  that  a  suitor  for  her  hand  asked 
Metcalf  to  use  what  influence  he  might  have  in  his 


BIOGRAPHY.  339 

favour.  It,  however,  came  about  that  Metcalf  was 
suspected  of  coolness  by  his  innamorata,  who,  in  conse- 
quence, accepted  the  advances  of  her  well-to-do  suitor. 
On  the  day,  however,  before  that  fixed  for  the  wedding, 
Metcalf,  on  riding  pretty  smartly  past  the  Royal  Oak, 
towards  the  Queen's  Head,  was  loudly  accosted  in 
these  words :  "  One  wants  to  speak  with  you."  He 
turned  immediately  to  the  stables  of  the  Oak,  and,  to 
his  joyful  surprise,  found  there  his  favourite,  who  had 
sent  her  mother's  maid  to  call  him.  "Well,  lass," 
said  he,  "  thou's  going  to  have  a  merry  day  to-morrow  ; 
and  I  am  to  be  the  'fidler'?"  "Thou  never  shalt 
fiddle  at  my  wedding,"  replied  she.  "What's  the 
matter  ?  what  have  I  done  ?"  said  Metcalf.  "  Matters 
may  not  end,"  said  she,  "  as  some  folks  wish  they 
should."  "What !"  said  he,  "hadst  thou  rather  have 
me  ?  Canst  thou  bear  starving  ?"  "  Yes,"  said  she, 
with  thee  I  can  ! "  "  Give  me  thy  hand,  then,  lass  ! 
Skin  for  skin,  it's  all  done  !  "  The  servant-girl  who 
had  called  him,  being  present,  he  told  her  that  as  she 
and  his  horse  were  the  only  witnesses  of  what  had 
passed,  he  would  kill  the  first  who  should  divulge  it. 
The  sequel  can  readily  be  imagined.  Blind  Jack,  the 
'fidler,'  ran  away  with  Miss  Benson,  the  publican's 
daughter,  and  the  prettiest  girl  in  the  town.  When 
the  heroine  of  this  drama  was,  some  time  after,  asked 
why  she  had  refused  so  many  good  offers  for  Blind 
Jack,  she  replied,  "  Because  I  could  not  be  happy  with- 
out him  ;"  and,  being  more  particularly  questioned,  she 
said,  "  His  actions  are  so  singular,  and  his  spirit  so 
manly  and  enterprising,  that  I  could  not  help  liking 
him."  Metcalf,  having  been  interrogated  on  his  part 
as  to  how  he  had  contrived  to  obtain  the  lady,  replied 
that  "  Many  women  were  like  liquor  merchants,  who 
purchase  spirits  above  proof,  knowing  that  they  can 
lower  them  at  home."  After  the  wedding,  Metcalf 
went  to  Harrogate,  as  usual,  in  fulfilment  of  his  musical 
engagements,  always  however  avoiding  the  sign  of  the 

z  2 


340  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

Oak,  which  house  was  kept  by  his  mother-in-law.  One 
day,  however,  having  had  rather  too  much  to  drink,  he 
accepted  a  wager,  rode  boldly  up  to  the  door  of  the 
house,  and  called  for  his  favourite  beverage.  On  seeing 
Blind  Jack  the  women  at  the  bar  took  fright,  and 
sought  refuge  upstairs,  fearing,  no  doubt,  that  he  had 
come  for  no  good.  Metcalf  on  this  rode  through  the 
house  from  front  to  back,  and,  as  there  were  no 
men  at  home,  he  departed  without  molestation  to 
receive  the  proceeds  of  his  wager.  Heavier  cares, 
however,  soon  demanded  his  attention,  and  he  was  not 
found  wanting ;  a  family  was  coming  on,  and  as  a  first 
step  of  preparation,  Metcalf  determined  to  provide 
himself  with  a  house.  He,  therefore,  bought  an  old 
tenement,  pulled  it  down,  and  built  a  new  house  on  the 
ground ;  the  stones  for  this  house  he  procured  himself 
from  the  bed  of  the  river,  and  got  masons  to  erect  the 
building  at  a  very  cheap  rate.  His  wife  having  pre- 
sented him  with  a  son,  some  friends  seized  on  the 
opportunity  to  bring  about  a  reconciliation  between 
Metcalf  and  Mrs.  Benson,  his  mother-in-law;  and 
when  a  daughter  was  added  to  the  family,  the  mother- 
in-law  became  her  godmother,  and  testified  to  the  ful- 
ness of  her  forgiveness  by  presenting  the  family  with 
fifty  guineas.  Metcalf  now  abandoned  all  his  former 
sports,  and  devoted  himself  in  real  earnest  to  business. 
He  conceived  and  carried  out  the  enterprise  of  setting 
up  the  first  four-wheeled  chaise  that  plied  in  Harro- 
gate  for  hire ;  and  he  also  ran  in  connection  with 
it  what  was  called  a  one-horse  chair.  This  double 
undertaking  he  continued  for  two  summers,  when,  being 
opposed  by  the  innkeepers  of  the  town,  who  started 
rival  carriages,  he  abandoned  the  scheme,  and  devoted 
his  attention  to  other  pursuits.  He  purchased  several 
horses,  and  set  up  as  a  fish-salesman,  carrying  the  fish 
in  panniers  from  the  coast  to  Leeds  and  Manchester. 
To  such  hardships  did  this  calling  expose  him,  that  he 
often  walked  thirty-six  hours  with  scarcely  any  rest ; 


BIOGRAPHY.  341 

and  in  one  of  these  expeditions,  on  his  way  from 
Knaresborough  to  Leeds  in  a  snow  storm,  while  cross- 
ing a  brook  the  ice  gave  way  under  one  of  the  horses, 
and  Metcalf  was  compelled  to  unload  the  panniers  to 
get  him  out  of  the  water ;  but  the  horse  as  soon  as 
free  ran  back  to  Knaresborough,  leaving  Metcalf  with 
two  panniers  of  fish  and  three  loaded  animals,  which, 
together  with  the  badness  of  the  night,  caused  him  no 
small  perplexity.  After  much  difficulty,  however,  the 
weight  was  divided  between  the  other  two  horses,  and 
the  fish  was  delivered  in  Leeds  in  sufficient  time  to 
procure  a  sale. 

The  profits  in  this  business  being  very  small,  Met- 
calf soon  gave  it  up,  and  attended  at  Harrogate  as  a 
player  on  the  violin  in  the  long  room. 

This  he  continued  until  the  breaking  out  of  the 
Scotch  Eebellion,  in  1745,  when  he  was  induced  to 
attach  himself  as  a  musician  to  a  volunteer  company 
raised  by  Mr.  Thornton,  a  Yorkshire  gentleman.  In 
this  new  capacity,  Metcalf  was  highly  successful  as  a 
recruiting  agent,  and  was  invaluable  in  keeping  up 
the  spirits  of  the  troops  on  the  march.  He  shared 
with  his  company  the  distresses  occasioned  by  the 
defeat  of  the  English  at  Falkirk,  and  took  part  in 
their  triumph  at  the  decisive  battle  of  Culloden. 

On  being  asked  by  an  English  cavalry  officer  how 
he  managed  to  escape  from  Falkirk,  he  sarcastically 
replied,  "  I  found  it  very  easy  to  follow  the  sound  of 
the  feet  of  the  horses,  as  they  made  such  a  clatter 
over  the  stones."  Captain  Thornton  having  been 
missed  after  the  engagement  at  Falkirk,  Metcalf 
undertook  the  task  of  discovering  his  fate,  and  suc- 
ceeded in  passing  the  enemies'  lines  under  the  plea 
that  he  wished  to  join  their  cause.  In  this  way  he 
managed  to  elude  suspicion  for  some  time,  and  actually 
succeeded  in  obtaining  an  audience  with  the  rebel 
general  Lord  George  Murry,  who  believed  so  strongly 
in  Metcalf  s  attachment  to  the  Stuart  cause,  that  he 


342  BLINDNESS  AND  THE   BLIND. 

gave  him  half  a  glass  of  wine,  an  article,  by  the  way, 
very  scarce  in  the  Highland  army.  After  some  time, 
however,  he  was  recognized  by  a  person  who  had 
known  him  in  England,  and  being  brought  before  a 
court-martial,  after  some  investigation,  he  was  acquitted, 
and  allowed  to  proceed  on  his  journey  to  join,  as  he 
said,  Prince  Charles.  At  length,  being  unable  to 
obtain  any  tidings  of  Captain  Thornton,  he  returned 
in  company  with  a  rebel  spy  to  Edinburgh,  where  to 
his  great  delight  he  found  his  master  safe  and  well,  he 
having  escaped  through  the  enemies'  lines  disguised 
as  a  journeyman  carpenter,  after  having  been  secreted 
several  days  in  the  cupboard  of  a  room  at  Falkirk, 
where  the  Scotch  chieftains  daily  held  their  council ; 
the  concealment  being  effected  by  a  dresser,  so  placed 
as  to  hide  the  cupboard-door,  and  he  being  supplied 
with  food  at  night  by  the  faithful  woman  who  kep.t 
the  house.  So  well  was  Captain  Thornton  pleased 
with  Metcalf's  conduct,  that  he  said  he  would  give  a 
hundred  guineas  if  he  could  put  an  eye  into  the  head 
of  his  blind  champion. 

While  in  Scotland  Metcalf  played  the  violin  at  a 
ball  given  by  the  Duke  of  Cumberland,  the  Com- 
mander-in-Chief  of  the  Eoyal  Army.  He  was  the 
only  musician  engaged,  and  the  duke,  who  himself 
danced  at  the  ball,  afterwards  sent  him  two  guineas. 
When  campaigning  was  over,  our  blind  soldier  re- 
turned to  his  Yorkshire  home,  and  commenced  to  turn 
the  knowledge  he  had  acquired  in  his  travels  to  profit- 
able account,  by  becoming  a  dealer  in  Scotch  woollen 
goods. 

In  the  prosecution  of  this  trade,  he  travelled  fre- 
quently from  Scotland  to  Yorkshire,  calling  on  the 
road  at  every  house  where  he  might  be  likely  to  obtain 
a  customer.  He  also  dealt  in  horses,  and  was  110 
inconsiderable  adept  at  the  contraband  trade,  the 
profits  of  which,  he  naively  remarked,  "  were  greater 
than  the  risk."  After  some  time,  these  varied  occu- 


BIOGRAPHY.  343 

pations  were  abandoned,  and  preference  given  to  a 
stage-waggon,  which  he  ran  between  York  and 
Knaresborough.  This  was  the  first  enterprise  of  the 
kind  started  on  that  road,  and  Metcalf  himself  went 
twice  a  week  in  summer  and  once  in  winter  with  the 
stage.  With  this  employment  he  also  combined  that 
of  carrying  goods  for  the  army,  in  which  he  was  very 
successful.  As,  however,  change  seemed  to  possess  a 
peculiar  attraction  for  him,  he,  after  a  short  time,  sold 
his  carrying  business,  and  devoted  himself  chiefly  to 
contracting  for  the  construction  and  repair  of  public 
roads.  An  Act  of  Parliament  having  passed  for 
the  making  of  a  turnpike-road  from  Harrogate  to 
Boroughbridge,  a  person  named  Ostler,  of  Farnham, 
was  appointed  surveyor;  and  Metcalf,  falling  in 
company  with  him,  agreed  to  make  about  three  miles 
of  the  road,  viz.  the  part  between  Menskip  and 
Fearnsby.  All  the  materials  were  to  be  procured 
from  one  gravel-pit,  and  Metcalf,  therefore,  provided 
deal  boards,  and  erected  a  temporary  house  at  the  pit, 
he  also  took  a  dozen  horses  to  the  place,  fixed  racks  and 
mangers,  and  hired  a  house  for  his  men  at  Menskip, 
which  was  distant  about  three-quarters  of  a  mile. 

He  often  walked  from  Knaresborough  with  four  or 
five  stone  of  meat  on  his  shoulders,  and  joined  his 
men  by  six  in  the  morning,  and  by  the  varied  and 
'efficient  means  employed  he  completed  the  work  much 
sooner  than  was  expected,  to  the  entire  satisfaction  of 
the  surveyor  and  trustees.  During  leisure  hours  he 
studied  measurement  in  a  way  of  his  own,  which 
enabled  him  to  reduce  the  contents  of  a  piece  of  timber 
to  feet  and  inches,  and  to  specify  the  dimensions  of 
any  building.  Near  the  time  of  the  finishing  of  the 
above-named  road,  the  building  of  a  bridge  was  ad- 
vertised to  be  contracted  for  at  Boroughbridge,  and  a 
number  of  gentlemen  met  at  the  Crown  Inn  to  re- 
ceive tenders,  and  Metcalf  was  one  of  the  competitors. 
The  masons  varied  considerably  in  their  estimates. 


344  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

Ostler  was  appointed  to  survey  the  bridge,  and  Metcalf 
told  him  that  he  wished  to  undertake  it,  though  he 
had  never  done  anything  of  the  kind  before.  On  this 
the  surveyor  acquainted  the  gentlemen  with  what 
Metcalf  proposed ;  and  when  the  blind  engineer  was- 
sent  for,  and  asked  what  he  knew  about  a  bridge, 
he  told  them  that  he  could  readily  describe  it,  if  they 
would  take  the  trouble  to  write  down  his  plan,, 
which  was  as  follows: — "The  span  of  the  arch  18 
feet,  being  a  semicircle,  makes  27:  the  arch  stones- 
must  be  a  foot  deep,  which,  if  multiplied  by  27,  will 
be  486,  and  the  bases  will  be  72  feet  more  :  this  for 
the  arch.  It  will  require  good  backing,  for  which 
purpose  there  are  proper  stones  in  the  old  Roman 
wall,  at  Aldborough,  which  may  be  bought,  if  you 
please  to  give  directions  to  that  effect."  The  gentle- 
men were  surprised  at  his  readiness,  and  agreed  with 
him  to  build  the  bridge.  The  other  persons  who 
had  given  in  estimates  were  much  offended;  and  as 
the  materials  were  to  be  procured  from  a  quarry 
belonging  to  one  of  them,  he  was  unwilling  to  sell 
any  to  Metcalf,  who  thereupon  sent  to  Farnham  and 
procured  stones,  which  the  lime-burners  had  left  (as 
they  were  too  strong  for  their  purpose).  He  got  them 
dressed  at  the  place  for  little  money,  conveyed  them 
to  Boroughbridge,  and  having  men  to  take  them  in 
vehicles,  set  them,  and  completed  the  arch  in  one 
day,  and  finished  the  whole  work  in  a  very  short 
period. 

Soon  after,  there  was  a  mile  and  a  half  of  turnpike 
road  between  Knaresborough  Bridge  and  Harrogate, 
which  Metcalf  also  agreed  to  do.  Going  one  day  over 
a  place  covered  with  grass,  he  told  his  men  that  he 
thought  it  different  from  the  ground  adjoining,  and 
would  have  them  try  for  stone  or  gravel,  which  they 
immediately  did,  and  found  an  old  causeway,  supposed 
to  have  been  made  by  the  Romans,  which  afforded 
many  materials  for  making  roads.  Between  the 


BIOGRAPHY.  345 

Forest-lane  Head  and  Knaresborough  Bridge  there 
was  a  bog,  over  which  the  surveyor  thought  it  im- 
possible to  make  a  road,  but  Metcalf  assured  him  that 
he  could  readily  accomplish  it.  The  other  then  told 
him  that  if  so,  he  should  be  paid  for  the  same  length 
as  if  he  had  taken  the  road  by  the  circuitous  route 
originally  proposed.  The  blind  man  therefore  set 
about  the  work.  He  raised  the  ground  and  covered 
it  with  whin  and  ling,  and  made  it  as  good  as  any 
other  road.  He  received  about  four  hundred  pounds 
for  this  undertaking,  and  for  a  small  bridge,  which 
he  had  built  over  a  brook  called  Stanbeck. 

A  road  being  projected  between  Harrogate  and 
Harewood  Bridge,  six  miles  in  length,  a  meeting  was 
held  (the  late  Lord  Harewood  and  Mr.  Lascelles  being 
present)  to  contract  with  any  person  who  might  be 
thought  fit  to  undertake  the  work.  A  great  number 
of  estimates  were  presented,  but  Metcalf  obtained 
the  contract.  It  was  to  be  completed  before  the 
winter,  and  the  soil  being  stiff  clay,  it  was  judged 
expedient  to  cast  the  whole  length  before  they  began 
to  stone  it.  He  therefore  arranged  that  no  carriages 
should  pass  while  the  road  was  being  made,  and,  by 
way  of  prevention,  sluices  were  cut  at  each  end  of 
the  lane,  across  which  draw-bridges  were  thrown 
when  his  own  waggons  brought  materials.  He  also 
opened  two  houses  to  entertain  travellers  and  the 
people  employed  on  the  works,  as  there  were  not 
sufficient  taverns  in  the  neighbourhood.  The  short 
time  allowed  for  the  completion  of  the  contract 
obliged  him  to  adopt  the  most  expeditious  means  for 
pushing  forward  the  work,  and  among  other  ingenious 
contrivances,  he  employed  a  wheel-plough  drawn  by 
nine  horses  as  the  best  and  most  expeditious  way  of 
getting  up  the  roots  of  whin  and  ling  in  parts  of  the 
forest  where  they  were  strong,  and,  as  he  was  com- 
pelled to  superintend  the  work  himself,  he  obtained 
leave  from  the  innkeepers  at  Harrogate  to  engage 


346  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

a  musician  to  play  at  their  houses  in  his  absence.  He 
completed  his  contract  for  the  road  within  the  time 
appointed,  to  the  entire  satisfaction  of  the  trustees, 
and  received  for  the  work  twelve  hundred  pounds. 

There  being  about  a  mile  and  a  half  of  road  to  be 
made  through  part  of  Chapel  Town  to  Leeds,  Lord 
Harewood  and  other  gentlemen  met  at  the  Bowling- 
green,  Chapel  Town,  to  receive  estimates,  and  Met- 
calf  obtained  the  contract.  He  also  widened  the  arch 
of  Sheepscar  Bridge,  for  which  he  received  nearly 
four  hundred  pounds.  Between  Skipton  and  Colne, 
in  Lancashire,  there  were  four  miles  of  road  to  be 
made,  and  Metcalf's  proposals  were  preferred.  The 
materials  were  at  a  greater  distance,  and  more  difficult 
to  be  procured  than  he  expected,  and  a  wet  season 
coming  on,  made  this  an  unprofitable  undertaking, 
yet  he  completed  it  according  to  contract.  He  next 
undertook  to  make  two  miles  of  road  through 
Broughton  to  Martin;  and  two  miles  more  through 
Addingham,  and  over  part  of  Romell's  Moor. 

These  works  he  completed,  and  received  one  thou- 
sand three  hundred  pounds  from  Mr.  Ingham,  of 
Burleigh,  and  Mr.  Alcock,  of  Skipton. 

After  this  a  meeting  was  held  at  Wakefield,  to 
arrange  for  the  making  of  part  of  the  road  between 
that  town  and  Halifax,  and  Metcalf  undertook  to 
construct  the  four  miles  between  Mill  Bridge  and 
Belly  Bridge,  which  he  finished,  although  it  was  an 
extremely  wet  summer.  He  then  took  three  miles  more 
which  lay  between  Belly  Bridge  and  Halifax,  and 
completed  it,  and  he  also  agreed  for  five  miles  between 
Wakefield  and  Chekingley  Beck,  near  Dewsbury. 

The  trustees  having  met  at  Wakefield  to  make  con- 
tracts, Metcalf  engaged  to  construct  or  repair  three 
miles  and  a  half  of  road  between  Hag  Bridge  and  Pon- 
tefract,  and  one  mile  and  a  half  from  Crofton  through 
Foulby,  all  of  which  he  satisfactorily  completed,  and 
received  as  payment  six  thousand  four  hundred  pounds. 


BIOGEAPHY.  347 

A  road  having  to  be  constructed  from  Wakefield  to 
Austerland,  through  Herbury,  Almondbury,  Hudders- 
field, Marsden,  and  Saddle  worth,  Metcalf  obtaining 
the  contract,  a  difficulty  having  arisen  as  to  the  manner 
of  carrying  out  the  work,  the  blind  engineer  thus  ad- 
dressed the  trustees:  "Gentlemen,  as  you  seem  to 
have  a  great  deal  of  business  before  you  to-day,  it 
appears  quite  unnecessary  to  trespass  upon  your  time 
on  this  head.  I  propose  to  make  the  road  over  the 
marshes  after  my  own  plan,  and  if  it  does  not  answer  I 
will  be  at  the  expense  of  making  it  over  again  after 
yours."  To  this  proposition  they  eventually  agreed, 
and  as  Metcalf  engaged  to  make  nine  miles  of  the 
road  in  ten  months,  he  began  in  six  different  parts 
with  nearly  four  hundred  men.  One  of  the  places 
through  which  the  road  had  to  be  carried  was  Pule  and 
Standish  Common,  which  water  crossed  in  several 
places ;  but  he  carried  it  off  by  drains.  He  found 
great  difficulty  in  conveying  materials,  on  account  of 
the  softness  of  the  ground.  Many  of  the  clothiers  who 
passed  that  way  to  Huddersfield  market,  were  by  no 
means  sparing  in  their  censure,  and  held  much  diver- 
sity of  opinion  with  regard  to  the  success  of  the  under- 
taking ;  but  Metcalf  got  the  piece  levelled  to  the  end, 
and  then  ordered  his  men  to  bind  heather,  or  ling,  in 
round  bundles,  and  place  them  on  the  intended  road, 
in  squares  of  four,  pressing  them  well  down ;  he  then 
obtained  broad-wheeled  carts,  and  began  to  load 
stone  and  gravel  for  covering.  When  the  first  load 
was  put  on,  and  the  horses  had  gone  off  in  safety, 
the  people  present  huzzaed  from  surprise ;  and  it  says 
much  for  the  ability  of  our  blind  contractor  that  this 
piece  of  road  needed  no  repair  for  twelve  years.  Hav- 
ing finished  the  nine  miles  within  the  specified  time, 
Metcalf  took  three  miles  from  Standish  to  Thurston 
Clough,  which  he  completed,  and  afterwards  six  miles 
and  a  half  from  Sir  John  Kaye's  seat  to  Huddersfield  ; 
and  to  Longroyd  and  Bridge  toll-bar.  He  also  con- 


348  BLINDNESS   AND  THE   BLIND. 

stmcted  four  bridges,  the  span  of  each  being  twenty- 
four  feet,  and  six  bridges  of  nine  feet.  When  all  these 
works  were  finished,  a  meeting  of  the  trustees  was 
called,  when  Metcalf  stated  that  the  work  he  had  com- 
pleted, in  addition  to  his  first  contract  in  the  marshes 
and  other  places,  was  worth  five  hundred  pounds  ;  and 
after  some  debate  he  was  voted  three  hundred  pounds. 
Metcalf  made  twenty-one  miles  of  road,  for  which  he 
received  four  thousand  five  hundred  pounds.  In  build- 
ing bridges,  where  the  foundations  were  bad,  he  laid 
on  a  sufficient  thickness  of  ling,  or  straw.  He  next 
laid  planks,  five  inches  thick,  with  square  mortises,  and, 
driving  in  a  number  of  piles,  the  foundations  were 
made  secure.  He  then  laid  springs  for  the  arches  upon 
the  planks,  which  caused  all  to  settle  regularly  when 
heavy  vehicles  passed  over ;  and  though  he  built  many 
arches  of  different  sizes,  none  of  his  bridges  ever  gave 
way.  Believing  that  there  was  a  stone  quarry  south- 
east of  Huddersfield,  in  ground  belonging  to  Sir  John 
Eamsden,  he  bored  secretly  in  the  night,  and  was  suc- 
cessful in  finding  it ;  in  consequence  of  which  Sir  John 
gave  him  liberty  to  take  away  stone  from  the  quarry  he 
had  discovered.  Metcalf  now  undertook  to  build  houses, 
and  among  those  erected  by  him  was  one  belonging  to 
Mr.  Marmaduke  Hebden,  which  was  sixty-nine  feet 
long,  twenty-seven  feet  wide,  and  twenty-seven  feet  from 
the  foundation  to  the  square  of  the  building ;  and  it  had 
twenty  chimneys.  Metcalf  undertook  to  make  the  road 
from  Dock  Lane  Head,  Yorkshire,  to  Ashton-under- 
Lyne,  Lancashire,  that  from  the  guide-post  near  Ashton- 
under-Lyne  to  Stockport,  in  Cheshire,  and  the  road 
between  Stockport  and  Mottram-Longdale,  the  whole 
length  being  eighteen  miles.  He  set  men  to  work  in 
different  parts,  with  horses  and  carts  to  each  company ; 
and  though  he  lost  twenty  horses  in  one  winter,  he  was 
not  discouraged ;  observing  that  "  horse-leather  had 
been  dear  a  long  time,  but  he  hoped  now  to  reduce  the 
price." 


BIOGRAPHY.  349 

Notwithstanding  this  misfortune,  he  completed  the 
whole  work,  including  a  great  number  of  drains  and 
arches,  entirely  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  trustees, 
and  received  four  thousand  five  hundred  pounds. 
He  then  took  eight  miles  more,  which  required  several 
drains  and  arches.  He  raised  one  hollow  nine  yards, 
and  built  sufficiently  on  each  side  to  keep  up  the 
earth,  with  battlements  on  the  top,  for  which  he 
received  two  thousand  pounds.  One  day  he  was 
met  by  Sir  George  Warren,  who  inquired  if  he  was 
at  leisure,  and,  being  answered  in  the  affirmative, 
he  desired  to  see  him  at  his  house  at  Poynton.  Met- 
calf  went,  and  agreed  to  make  five  miles  of  a  private 
road  through  the  park.  He  took  twelve  or  fourteen 
horses  of  his  own,  and  brought  large  quantities  of  stone 
into  Sir  George's  grounds  for  drains.  For  this  he 
received  several  hundred  pounds,  and  great  favours 
also  from  Sir  George  and  his  lady.  A  road  was 
required  to  be  made  between  Whalley  and  Buxton,  in 
Derbyshire.  To  avoid  a  hill  it  went  over  a  piece  of 
ground  called  Peeling  Moss;  the  whole  road  was 
intended  to  be  four  miles  in  length.  In  some  places 
were  very  hard  rocks,  which  required  to  be  blasted. 
In  undertaking  to  make  this  road,  Metcalf  was  strongly 
opposed  by  a  son  of  one  of  the  commissioners ;  but 
Peter  Leigh,  Esq.,  of  Lyme,  and  another  gentleman, 
supporting  Metcalf,  he  gained  his  point,  and  completed 
the  contract,  for  which  he  received  nearly  eleven  hun- 
dred pounds.  Eight  miles  of  road  were  advertised  to 
be  made  between  Huddersfield  and  Halifax.  A  meet- 
ing was  held,  and  several  persons  attended  with  esti- 
mates. One  part  of  the  course  was  rocky  and  full  of 
hollows,  and  the  ground  in  very  bad  condition,  parti- 
cularly between  Elland  and  Saltershebble,  and  through 
a  place  called  Grimscar  Wood.  Many  were  of  opinion 
that  it  was  impossible  to  make  a  road  over  that  ground. 
But  by  building  up  the  hollows,  and  lowering  the  hills, 
Metcalf  accomplished  the  work.  And  it  is  worthy  of 


350  BLINDNESS  AND  THE   BLIND. 

remark,  that  lie  never  undertook  any  road  which  he  did 
not  complete,  although  he  contracted  for  many  which 
persons  who  had  their  sight  declined.  He  finished  the 
road  between  Huddersfield  and  Halifax,  with  a  great 
number  of  fence  walls  and  drains,  to  the  satisfaction 
of  the  surveyor  and  trustees,  and  received  for  the  work 
two  thousand  seven  hundred  and  eleven  pounds.  A 
little  after  this,  a  road  was  advertised  to  be  made 
between  Congleton  and  the  Red  Bull  Inn,  in  Cheshire, 
about  six  miles  in  length ;  but  the  materials  were  three 
miles  distant.  A  meeting  for  letting  this  road  was 
held  at  a  place  called  Audersley,  which  Metcalf  at- 
tended, and  being  a  stranger  in  that  part  he  might  not 
have  succeeded  had  he  not  fortunately  met  with  three 
gentlemen  who  knew  him.  They  said  to  the  trustees, 
"  Gentlemen,  you  have  only  to  agree  with  this  man, 
and  you  may  be  assured  of  having  your  work  well 
done."  The  road,  however,  was  not  let  that  day,  the 
business  being  deferred  until  another  meeting,  to  be 
held  at  Congleton,  where  Metcalf  and  others  attended 
with  estimates.  "  Gentlemen,"  said  Metcalf,  "  I  am  a 
stranger  to  you,  and  you  may  with  reason  question  my 
performing  the  bargain ;  but  to  prevent  any  doubt,  I 
will  first  do  one  hundred  pounds'  worth  of  work,  and 
afterwards  be  reasonably  paid  as  it  goes  forward;  the 
hundred  pounds  may  lie  in  the  treasurer's  hands  till 
the  whole  is  completed,  and  then  to  be  paid."  On 
this  proposal,  and  the  three  gentlemen's  recommenda- 
tion at  the  former  meeting,  they  agreed  with  him, 
although  there  was  an  estimate  given  lower  than  his  by 
two  hundred  pounds.  He  completed  the  road,  to  the 
great  satisfaction  of  the  surveyor  and  trustees,  and 
received  three  thousand  pounds. 

In  the  summer  of  1788  Metcalf  lost  his  wife,  in  the 
Cist  year  of  her  age,  after  having  been  married  thirty- 
nine  years.  She  left  four  children,  and  her  remains 
were  interred  in  the  churchyard  at  Stockport,  Cheshire. 
The  subject  of  this  biographical  sketch  now  returned  to 


BIOGRAPHY.  351 

his  native  county,  and  at  the  age  of  77  busied  himself  in 
purchasing  and  selling  hay  and  timber.  During  his 
latter  years  he  resided  with  his  daughter  at  Spofforth, 
near  Wetherby,  in  the  West  Riding  of  Yorkshire, 
where  he  died  in  1802,  aged  85  years.  When  we 
reflect  on  the  circumstances  in  the  life  of  this  remark- 
able man,  we  are  forcibly  struck  with  the  following 
category  of  his  acquirements  : — He  walked  and  rode, 
he  swam,  fished,  played  at  cards  and  skittles,  rode  and 
betted  on  races,  was  an  excellent  performer  on  the  haut- 
boy and  other  instruments,  was  a  very  successful 
recruiting  agent,  and  as  a  soldier  was  the  life  of  the 
corps  to  which  he  belonged,  in  the  bivouac  or  on  the 
battle-field.  He  was  a  dealer  in  horses,  fish,  hay,  wood, 
and  woollen  and  cotton  goods,  and  he  also  succeeded 
in  evading  the  law  in  various  contraband  transactions. 
He  established  public  conveyances  in  towns,  and  be- 
tween places  which  had  not  before  enjoyed  such  advan- 
tages, and  succeeded  in  building  houses  and  in  making 
a  great  number  of  roads  and  bridges  in  the  most  satis- 
factory manner,  in  spite  of  strong  competition  from 
professional  men,  who  enjoyed  the  advantages  of  per- 
fect vision  and  long  practical  experience.  Altogether,. 
John  Metcalf  must  ever  stand  out  as  the  embodiment 
of  strength  of  will,  soundness  of  judgment,  reckless 
disregard  of  danger,  and  extraordinary  strength  of 
physical  constitution.  Doubtless  there  is  much  in  his 
career  open  to  censure,  but  even  his  vices  show  what 
difficult  things  may  be  performed  without  sight,  and 
how  far  the  blind  may  contend  with  success  against 
their  more  fortunate  fellow-men. 

Joseph  Strong. 

This  clever  mechanic  was  born  in  1732,  at  Commers- 
dale,  near  Carlisle,  where  his  father  owned  a  small 
piece  of  land.  When  four  years  old,  he  lost  his  sight 
from  smallpox,  but  his  natural  vigour  of  mind  and 


352  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

body  soon  triumphed  over  this  misfortune.  He  early 
exhibited  great  fondness  for  the  mechanical  arts,  and 
evinced  considerable  musical  talents.  His  first  efforts 
at  handicraft  showed  themselves  in  the  production  of 
rude  musical  instruments,  such  as  a  violin,  a  harp,  a 
flute,  and  a  hautboy,  and  these  performances  begot  in 
him  a  strong  desire  to  build  an  organ.  An  idea  of  the 
arrangement  of  the  keys  he  obtained  by  examining  a 
spinet,  but  he  was  at  a  loss  how  to  construct  the  other 
parts.  Determined,  however,  to  gratify  his  thirst  for 
knowledge,  when  about  fifteen  years  old,  being  influ- 
enced by  a  preconceived  plan,  or  impelled  by  a  sudden 
impulse,  he  stayed  in  Carlisle  Cathedral  after  the  con- 
gregation had  departed,  and  managed  to  get  himself 
locked  in.  When  he  imagined  all  was  safe,  he  made 
his  way  to  the  interior  of  the  organ,  and,  having  exa- 
mined the  pipes  and  everything  immediately  connected 
with  them,  he  supplied  the  instrument  with  wind,  and 
proceeded  to  the  key-board  to  try  the  effect  of  the 
various  stops.  This,  however,  could  not  be  done  with- 
out producing  sounds  which  penetrated  beyond  the 
church,  and  reached  ears  other  than  his  own.  It  was 
then  about  midnight ;  the  neighbourhood  was  alarmed ; 
all  the  tales  of  the  lovers  of  the  supernatural  were 
realized,  and  there  were  the  veritable  ghosts  entertain- 
ing themselves  with  the  organ.  At  length  some  per- 
sons bolder  than  the  rest  caused  the  cathedral  doors  to 
be  opened,  and  there,  to  every  one's  amazement,  was 
found  the  blind  boy,  Joseph  Strong,  calmly  examining 
the  organ,  and  caring  nothing  for  the  spirits  of  either 
world,  nor  for  men  either.  The  next  day  Strong  was 
taken  before  the  Dean,  who  questioned  him  as  to  his 
object  in  disturbing  the  neighbourhood ;  and  having 
been  satisfied  on  this  head,  he  gently  admonished  him, 
and  gave  him  permission  to  go  to  the  organ  whenever 
he  wished,  at  seasonable  hours. 

Our  mechanic  now  set  to  work  with  redoubled  energy 
to  carry  out  his  favourite  design,  and  soon  completed  a 


BIOGRAPHY.  353 

small  organ,  which,  was  the  surprise  of  all  who  exa- 
mined it.  This  done,  he  built  a  second,  on  which  he 
played  for  the  remainder  of  his  life  ;  and  he  also  had 
the  satisfaction  of  making  a  third  instrument,  which 
was  purchased  by  a  gentleman  in  the  Isle  of  Man.  In 
the  construction  of  his  later  organs  he  was  much 
assisted  by  information  obtained  from  a  gentleman  be- 
longing to  the  trade  in  London,  which  city  Strong 
visited  in  company  with  his  mother — they,  it  is  said, 
walking  the  whole  of  the  distance  from  Carlisle,  about 
300  miles.  But  what  motive  could  have  prompted 
them  to  journey  in  this  fashion  is  not  very  clear,  as  the 
family  seems  to  have  been  in  easy  circumstances. 
Strong  used  to  make  various  articles  of  furniture  and 
of  wearing  apparel,  and  the  boots  that  he  wore  in  his 
journey  from  Carlisle  to  London  were  the  work  of  his 
'own  hands.  While  in  the  metropolis,  our  Cumberland 
youth  was  introduced  by  Dr.  Brown  to  Stanley,  the  cele- 
brated blind  organist,  who  entertained  so  high  an 
opinion  of  his  abilities  that  he  offered  to  give  him 
lessons  in  music ;  but  Strong,  caring  more  for  home 
ties  than  for  the  promise  of  a  brilliant  career,  thank- 
fully declined  the  generous  offer.  Among  other  pieces 
of  machinery,  our  mechanic  constructed  aweaver's  loom, 
by  which  he  was  enabled  to  manufacture  plain  cloth, 
plush,  damask,  etc.  The  first-named  fabric  produced 
him  considerable  profit,  but  the  ornamental  goods  were 
only  made  for  the  sake  of  novelty.  In  estimating  the 
value  of  the  achievements  of  a  life  such  as  that  now 
under  review,  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  what  was 
accomplished  was  the  result  of  the  efforts  of  one  who 
never  received  any  regular  instruction,  and  who  la- 
boured under  the  privation  most  inimical  to  mechanical 
success.  Doubtless,  many  of  his  works  lacked  the  style 
and  finish  possessed  by  other  similar  articles,  but, 
nevertheless,  they  strikingly  showed  what  might  have 
been  effected  by  their  maker,  if  he  had  enjoyed  the 
advantage  of  suitable  instruction. 

2  A 


354  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

Mr.  Strong  married  at  the  age  of  twenty-five,  and 
died  at  Carlisle  in  1798,  being  in  his  sixty-sixth  year, 
and  leaving  several  children. 

Thomas    Wilson,    the  Blind   Turner  and  Bell-ringer, 
of  Dumfries. 

The  following  account  of  this  estimable  man  is  ex- 
tracted from  the  '  Mirror/  vol.  v.  1825,  page  273  :— 

"  Thomas  Wilson  was  born  on  the  6th  of  May, 
1750,  old  style,  and  had  nearly  completed  his  75th 
year.  Dr.  Jenner's  invention  came  too  late  for  him  ; 
when  a  mere  child  he  lost  his  eyesight  by  the  natural 
smallpox,  and  had  no  recollection  of  ever  having 
gazed  on  the  external  world.  Like  other  boys,  he 
was  very  fond  of  visiting  the  venerable  mid- steeple  of 
Dumfries,  and  at  the  age  of  twelve,  was  promoted  to  the 
office  of  chief  ringer.  Being  of  industrious  habits,  he, 
after  much  labour  and  perseverance,  succeeded  in  gain- 
ing a  pretty  correct  notion  of  the  trade  of  a  turner 
— such  as,  without  becoming  a  burden  to  any  one,  en- 
abled him  to  support  himself — and  honest  Thomas's 
beetles  and  spurtles  are  still  held  in  high  repute  by 
the  guid  wives  of  both  town  and  country.  Although 
the  business  requires  a  considerable  number  of  tools, 
he  had  them  so  arranged  that  he  could,  without  the 
least  difficulty,  take  from  his  shelf  the  particular  one 
he  might  be  in  want  of,  and  even  sharpen  them  when 
necessary.  He  excelled  in  the  culinary  art,  cooking 
his  victuals  with  the  greatest  nicety,  and  priding  him- 
self upon  the  architectural  knowledge  he  displayed  in 
erecting  a  good  ingle  or  fire.  In  his  domestic  economy 
he  neither  had  nor  required  an  assistant.  He  fetched 
his  own  water,  made  his  own  bed,  cooked  his  own 
victuals,  planted  and  raised  his  own  potatoes,  and 
what  is  more  strange  still,  cast  his  own  peats ;  and 
was  allowed  by  all  to  keep  as  clean  a  house  as  the 
most  particular  spinster  in  the  town.  Among  a  hun- 


BIOGRAPHY.  355 

dred  rows  of  potatoes  lie  easily  found  his  way  to  his 
own,  and  when  turning  peats,  walked  as  fearlessly 
among  the  flags  of  Lochar  moss,  as  those  who  have  all 
their  senses  about  them.  At  raising  potatoes,  or  any 
other  odd  job,  he  was  ever  ready  to  bear  a  hand,  and 
when  a  neighbour  got  groggy  on  a  Saturday  night,  it 
was  by  no  means  an  uncommon  spectacle  to  see  Tom 
conducting  him  home  to  his  wife  and  children.  As  a 
mechanic  he  was  more  than  ordinarily  ingenious,  and 
made  a  lathe  with  his  own  hands  with  which  he  was 
long  in  the  habit  of  turning  various  articles  both  of 
ornament  and  general  utility.  In  making  cocks  and 
pails  for  brewing,  dishes,  potato-beetles,  tin-smiths' 
mallets,  and  hucksters'  stands  for  all  the  country 
round,  blind  Tom  was  quite  unrivalled;  and  many  a 
time  and  oft,  he  has  been  seen  purchasing  a  plank  on 
the  sands,  raising  it  on  his  shoulder,  though  ten  feet 
long,  and  carrying  it  home  to  his  own  house,  without 
coming  in  contact  with  a  single  object.  He  also  con- 
structed a  portable  break  for  scutching  lint,  which  he 
further  mounted  on  a  nice  little  carriage,  and  in  this 
way,  readily  transported  both  himself  and  the  machine 
to  any  farmhouse  where  his  services  were  required. 
.  .  .  Never  was  bell-man  more  faithful.  For  more 
than  half  a  century  Tom  was  at  his  post  three  times  a 
day,  at  the  very  minute  or  moment  required,  whether 
the  clock  pointed  right  or  no,  and  without,  we  believe, 
a  single  omission.  In  the  coldest  morning,  or  the 
darkest  night  of  winter — foul  or  fair,  sunshine  or 
storm — it  was  all  one  to  Tom  ;  and  though  sluggards 
might  excuse  themselves  on  the  score  of  the  weather, 
his  noisy  clapper  never  failed  to  remind  them  that 
there  was  at  least  one  man  in  the  town  up  and  at  his 
duty ;  or  to  speak  in  the  language  of  a  good  old  pro- 
verb, that 

" '  Early  to  bed  and  early  to  rise. 

Makes  a  man  healthy,  wealthy,  and  wise.' 

Indeed,  such  was  his  punctuality,  that  he  was  never 

2  A  2 


356  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

known  to  commit  a  single  mistake  but  one,  by  ringing 
the  bell  at  eleven  in  place  of  ten  at  night. 

"  This  occurred  very  lately,  and  when  joked  with  on 
the  subject,  he  remarked  that  he  had  surely  become 
fey. 

"  A  melancholy  event  attached  to  the  death  of  this 
humble,  but  honest  and  really  ingenious  person.  .  .  . 
The  room  in  the  belfry  of  the  mid-steeple  was  the 
great  scene  of  Tom's  exploits,  and  he  may  be  also- 
said  to  have  died  at  his  post.  On  Saturday  last,  at 
ten  o'clock  at  night,  his  hand  touched  the  ropes  for 
the  last  time,  and,  though  many  were  astonished,  both 
at  the  shortness  and  irregularity  of  the  chime,  all  were- 
as  unconscious  as  the  ringer  himself,  that  he  was  en- 
gaged in  tolling  his  own  knell.  But  it  was  even  so. 
Struck  with  something  like  an  apoplectic  fit,  he 
staggered,  as  is  supposed,  against  an  old  phest,  cut 
his  head  slightly,  sank  on  the  floor,  and  remained  all 
night  in  this  forlorn  and  pitiable  situation,  without  a- 
friend  to  help  him  to  a  cup  of  cold  water,  or  wipe- 
away  the  damps  of  death  that  were  fast  gathering  on 
his  venerable  brow.  For  some  years  past,  a  person 
had  assisted  him  in  ringing  the  bells  on  Sundays,  and 
when  this  individual  visited  the  steeple  at  seven  o'clock 
in  the  morning,  he  had  to  force  the  inner  door  of  the 
belfry  before  the  state  of  the  deceased  could  be  ascer- 
tained. Though  he  still  breathed,  he  was  unable  to 
speak,  and  was  immediately  carried  to  his  own  house 
in  a  state  of  utter  insensibility.  A  surgeon  was  sent 
for,  who  attempted  to  bleed  him  without  success, 
and  though  every  other  remedy  was  tried,  he  only 
survived  till  three  o'clock  of  the  same  day. 

11  Thomas  Wilson  has  left  behind  him  an  honest  fame, 
As  a  man  he  was  singularly  benevolent  and  kind ;  a& 
a  Christian  humble,  cheerful,  devout ;  regular  in  his 
attendance  at  public  worship,  and  at  religious  societies 
for  the  diffusion  of  the  gospel.  Morning  and  evening 
he  regularly  performed  his  devotions  in  the  steeple,. 


REMAKKS    ON    INDUSTRIAL   EMPLOYMENTS.  357 

though  he  was  careful  to  conceal  this  fact  from  his 
friends  ;  and  though  above  asking  charity  for  himself, 
he  was  never  ashamed  to  apply  for  others.  Many  a 
destitute  creature  in  fact  was  more  befriended  by 
Blind  Tom  than  by  persons  who  had  much  more  power, 
and  at  the  periodical  divisions  of  the  poor's  money 
his  representations  were  always  listened  to  with  the 
greatest  attention  both  by  elders  and  ministers. 
Everybody  knew  that  he  was  perfectly  disinterested, 
and  that,  so  far  from  appropriating  anything  to  him- 
self, he  would  rather  have  taxed  his  own  very  slender 
means.  Though  humble  in  station,  his  moral  worth 
and  integrity  were  high,  and,  independently  of  his  age 
and  services,  a  more  deserving  character  never  carried 
to  the  grave  the  regrets,  we  may  say,  of  a  whole  com- 
munity." 

Due  honour  was  done  to  the  remains  of  Blind  Tom ; 
the  corporation  and  upwards  of  three  hundred  re- 
spectable persons  attended  his  funeral,  and  a  subscrip- 
tion has  been  opened  for  erecting  a  suitable  monument 
to  his  memory. 

HEMARKS     ON    INDUSTRIAL    EMPLOYMENTS. 

KNITTING,  NETTING,  ETC. 

The  employment  of  knitting  is  perhaps  the  most 
widely  diffused  and  the  oldest  of  those  carried  on  by 
the  blind.  We  find  that  about  the  year  1550,  Joan 
Wast,  one  of  the  four  blind  martyrs  of  England, 
maintained  herself  by  knitting  stockings,  which  occu- 
pation must  have  produced  considerable  profit  before 
the  invention  of  the  stocking- weaving  machine.  The 
adoption  of  knitting  by  the  blind  at  such  an  early 
date  is  the  more  remarkable,  as  it  appears  from  Sellon 
White's  History  of  Inventions,  that  the  art  had  only 
just  been  introduced  into  England  from  the  Continent. 

It  is  believed  that  knitting  is  the  only  occupation 


358  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

that  is  common  to  all  the  blind  institutions  of  the 
world,  and  although  it  cannot  now  be  said  to  be  a 
profitable  investment  of  time,  yet  its  practice  is  at- 
tended with  some  advantages. 

In  the  case  of  children  it  is  a  means  of  enabling 
them  to  acquire  the  use  of  their  fingers,  while  for 
women  it  is  a  never-failing  source  of  amusement 
attended  with  some  profit. 

The  excellency  reached  at  some  blind  schools  in 
knitting,  and  its  twin-sister  crochet,  is  truly  surprising  ; 
but  the  time  employed  to  secure  this  excellence  would 
be  much  better  expended  in  imparting  to  the  pupils 
the  knowledge  of  an  employment  more  likely  to  give 
them  the  means  of  providing  for  their  own  main- 
tenance. 

Knitters  should  wind  a  piece  of  thread  several  times 
round  one  end  of  each  knitting  pin,  and  tie  it  tightly 
at  the  distance  from  the  point  beyond  which  they  do 
not  wish  the  work  to  pass. 

Fancy  netting  is  often  carried  on  by  women,  but 
seldom  with  profit. 

Twine  netting  is  sometimes  done  by  females ;  but 
generally  it  is  an  occupation  for  men,  and  until  the 
introduction  of  netting  by  machinery,  which  has 
thrown  the  trade  chiefly  into  the  hands  of  one  firm  at 
Musselburgh,  near  Edinburgh,  the  making  of  fishing 
and  other  nets  by  hand  was  a  profitable  employment, 
of  which  the  blind  often  took  advantage  ;  and  although 
it  cannot  now  be  classed  among  remunerative  occupa- 
tions, yet  it  is  of  some  use,  as  many  persons  insist  that 
hand-made  nets  are  superior  to  those  produced  by 
machinery ;  very  few  blind  schools,  however,  now  pay 
any  attention  to  the  art. 

Hair-work,  bead-work,  and  the  making  of  watch- 
guards  and  vase-stands  are  useful  acquisitions,  although 
not  very  profitable  in  a  pecuniary  sense. 


REMARKS  ON  INDUSTRIAL  EMPLOYMENTS.        359 

BASKET  MAKING  AND  CANE-WORK. 

Few  trades  practised  by  the  blind  are  as  useful  as 
basket  making,  for  it  deals  with  articles  in  general 
demand,  both  in  country  and  town.  It  was  introduced 
into  the  first  blind  school,  namely,  that  of  Paris,  in 
1784,  and  it  has  since  been  adopted  by  nearly  all  the 
European  and  American  institutions.  It  is,  however, 
a  singular  circumstance  that  while  this  trade  is  almost 
universally  taught  in  establishments  for  the  blind,  it 
has  been  discontinued  in  the  very  institution  which 
first  introduced  it,  so  that  Paris  now  almost  stands 
alone  in  the  rejection  of  this  handicraft.  The  finer 
kinds  of  baskets  can  be  made  by  women,  but  no 
female  has  ever  been  known  to  maintain  herself  by 
this  means,  unless  connected  with  the  Association  for 
Promoting  the  General  Welfare  of  the  Blind. 

The  writer  undertook,  in  1857,  to  ascertain  the 
means  by  which  the  French  were  enabled  to  surpass 
the  English  in  the  production  of  fancy  baskets.  He 
visited  France,  and  found,  after  much  difficulty,  that 
the  articles  imported  into  this  country,  and  known  by 
the  name  of  French  baskets,  were  made  in  the  poorest 
rural  districts  in  the  winter  season,  and  sold  at  aston- 
ishingly low  prices  to  factors  who  have  establishments 
in  central  French  villages  for  receiving  the  baskets, 
and  warehouses  in  London  and  other  places  for  their 
sale.  Persons  of  all  ages  and  both  sexes  are  employed 
in  the  manufacture,  and  the  cottagers,  in  many  in- 
stances, grow  their  own  osiers.  The  tools  used  by  the 
French  are  peculiar,  the  shave  and  upright  being 
made  so  as  to  take  off  two  thicknesses  from  the  skein 
at  the  same  time,  and  the  cleaver  has  three  divisions 
at  one  end  and  four  at  the  other.  The  baskets  are 
made  on  blocks  which  take  to  pieces,  so  as  to  be  easily 
removed  when  the  body  of  the  basket  is  finished. 

After  making  these  discoveries  some  blind  women 
were  taught  on  the  French  plan  with  perfect  success, 


360  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

at  the  institution  of  the  Association  for  Promoting  the 
Welfare  of  the  Blind,  London,  which  success  was  shown 
by  the  circumstance  of  ordinary  purchasers,  who  knew 
nothing  as  to  the  makers  of  the  goods,  selecting  bas- 
kets made  by  the  English  blind  women  in  preference 
to  those  manufactured  by  the  sighted  in  France ;  and 
it  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  circumstances  have  not 
permitted  this  plan  to  be  fully  developed,  for  it  is 
almost  certain  that,  under  proper  management,  the 
blind  women  of  this  country  could  produce  baskets 
which  would  compete  successfully,  both  in  quality  and 
price,  with  those  now  imported  from  France  and  Ger- 
many. 

The  stronger  kind  of  work,  called  rod-work,  offers 
excellent  employment  for  men,  and  possesses  the 
advantage  of  being  in  constant  demand.  This  trade, 
however,  has  some  drawbacks  of  considerable  import- 
ance, viz.,  it  can  only  be  successfully  carried  on  by 
persons  who  have  correct  ideas  of  shape,  and  the 
necessity  that  exists  for  the  workman  being  often  in 
a  stooping  posture,  and  having  his  hands  always  kept 
damp,  makes  it  very  prejudicial  to  health,  which  renders 
basket-making  only  suitable  for  those  who  have  peculiar 
abilities  and  robust  constitutions. 

Bottoming  chairs  with  cane  is  a  valuable  addition 
to  the  trade  of  a  basket-maker,  and  it  is  capable,  under 
favourable  circumstances,  of  being  carried  on  advan- 
tageously as  a  separate  employment.  It  is  a  profitable 
occupation  for  females,  and  was  first  introduced  by  the 
Association  for  Promoting  the  General  Welfare  of  the 
Blind  in  1857,  in  the  establishments  of  which  society 
it  has  since  been  in  use  as  an  employment  for  women. 
It  has  also  been  introduced  into  several  other  institu- 
tions. A  basket-maker  should  also  know  how  to  bottom 
chairs  with  rushes,  and  to  make  bee-hives. 

SACK,  MATTRESS,  AND  BED-MAZING. 
These  trades  were  first  introduced  by  the  Edinburgh 


EEMARKS    ON    INDUSTRIAL   EMPLOYMENTS.  361 

Asylum,  and  they  are  now  carried  on  in  five  institu- 
tions in  Great  Britain  and  America.  In  some  of  these 
establishments,  however,  they  only  exist  in  name,  and 
are  considered  almost  useless.  Where  they  succeed 
sighted  labour  is  added  to  that  of  the  blind,  and  the 
success  at  Edinburgh  would  seem  to  imply  some 
special  circumstance  connected  with  the  locality.  Many 
branches  of  the  above  employments  are  extremely 
simple,  and  the  needlework  may  be  done  by  blind 
women.  Much  space  is  required  for  workrooms,  and 
the  dust  from  the  feathers,  hair,  and  flock  are  not 
conducive  to  health,  the  cleaning  of  beds  from  hos- 
pitals, which  is  often  done,  is  a  very  questionable 
proceeding  in  the  case  of  the  blind,  who,  as  a  class, 
are  more  delicate  than  other  persons,  and  therefore 
more  liable  to  contagious  diseases.  Although  these 
propositions  are  self-evident,  we  are  not  in  a  posi- 
tion to  show  that  mattress  and  bed-makers  are  un- 
healthy, simply  because  there  are  no  records  to  which 
reference  can  be  made  for  information. 


MAT  AND  MATTING-MAKING. 

The  arts  of  mat  and  matting-making  were  first 
introduced  at  the  Liverpool  Asylum  for  the  Blind 
about  the  year  1791,  and  they  have  since  been  adopted 
by  many  other  institutions.  They  are  handicrafts 
which  are  readily  learnt,  but  there  is  no  demand  for 
them  outside  large  towns,  and  even  there  the  call  for 
them  is  very  small,  which  is  due  to  the  way  in  which 
mats  are  produced  in  prisons,  and  sold  to  the  trade 
at  very  low  prices.  At  St.  Mary's  Blind  Asylum, 
Dublin,  in  1865,  the  girls  worked  at  making  mats 
on  boards  under  the  direction  of  the  nuns  in  charge 
of  the  establishment,  but  this  employment  is  very 
ill-suited  to  females,  as  it  requires  considerable  mus- 
cular strength. 


362  BLINDNESS  AND  THE  BLIND. 

BRUSH,  BEOOM  AND  MOP-MAKING. 

Of  the  various  employments  open  to  the  blind  none 
affords  greater  advantages  than  that  of  brush-making. 
The  variety  of  articles  within  its  operation  gives  scope 
at  once  to  the  strong  and  clever,  and  to  the  dull  and 
weak.  In  fact,  it  may  be  said  with  truth,  that  if  a 
person  can  be  taught  anything,  he  can  be  made  to  do 
something  connected  with  the  brush  trade.  This 
being  so,  it  is  no  wonder  that,  although  the  employ- 
ment has  only  been  in  use  by  the  blind  in  this  coun- 
try for  about  fifteen  years,  it  is  now  in  operation  at 
twenty-two  institutions  of  the  United  Kingdom. 
Brush-making  was  introduced  by  the  Association  for 
Promoting  the  General  Welfare  of  the  Blind,  London, 
in  1856,  and  it  has  been  gradually  developed,  so  that 
now  every  branch,  even  the  most  difficult,  is  carried 
on  by  that  society. 

Certain  kinds  of  brushes  were  made  some  years 
before  at  Paris,  and  at  Boston,  America,  sighted 
teachers  doing  the  hard  parts.  It  did  not,  how- 
ever, exist  as  a  trade  for  the  blind  until  introduced  by 
the  association  above  named. 

It  has  for  some  time  ceased  to  be  carried  on  at  Paris 
and  Boston,  and  it  is  matter  of  surprise  that  that 
which  has  succeeded  so  well  in  London  with  blind 
teachers  should  have  failed  in  France  and  America 
with  sighted  instructors. 

Dr.  Howe,  of  Boston,  when  visiting  England  in 
1867,  was  much  struck  with  this  circumstance,  and  it 
shows  very  strongly  the  advantage  of  having  teachers 
who  can  fully  appreciate  the  difficulties  under  which 
the  blind  pupils  labour,  and  who  can  supply  from 
their  own  experience  the  means  of  overcoming  such 
difficulties. 

Brush-drawing,  i.e.  inserting  tufts  of  hair  into  holes, 
and  fastening  them  with  wire  or  string,  affords  employ- 
ment for  all  classes  of  persons.  The  finer  sorts,  such 


EEMAEKS   ON   INDUSTKIAL   EMPLOYMENTS.  363 

as  tooth,  hair,  and  clothes  brushes,  are  done  by  women,, 
and  some  kinds  are  suitable  for  persons  of  the  smallest 
capacity. 

The  stronger  descriptions  of  goods,  such  as  scrub- 
bing-brushes, stove-brushes,  etc.,  give  work  to  men, 
and  afford  scope  for  the  exercise  of  the  most  varied 
abilities. 

Brush-finishing  is  a  branch  requiring  considerable 
skill ;  it  is  very  profitable,  but  is  only  open  to  men. 

Brush-boring,  or  drilling  holes  to  receive  tufts  of 
hair,  was  long  considered  impracticable  for  the  blind, 
even  by  those  _who  recognized  the  suitability  of  the 
other  branches  of  the  trade,  but  it  is  now  readily 
accomplished ;  it  needs  workmen  of  some  skill,  and  is 
a  profitable  department. 

Hair-broom  making  consists  in  fastening  tufts  of 
bristles  in  holes  in  a  wooden  stock  by  means  of  hot 
pitch ;  the  pitch  is  heated  by  gas,  for  which  suitable 
protection  is  provided.  Learners  employ  a  movable 
guide  to  keep  their  fingers  from  the  pitch,  but  ad- 
vanced workmen  dispense  altogether  with  its  use.  Only 
men  are  now  employed  at  broom-making,  but  there  is 
no  reason  why  it  should  not  be  carried  on  by  females 
of  average  intelligence. 

The  manufacture  of  carpet-brooms  is  suitable  for 
strong  men  with  some  capacity,  and  the  leather-work 
is  done  by  women. 

Mop-making  is  carried  on  by  men,  but  it  is  quite 
open  to  women. 

FIREWOOD-MAKING. 

The  making  of  firewood  gives  occupation  to  per- 
sons of  both  sexes,  and  it  is  particularly  serviceable  in 
affording  an  opening  for  surplus  labour,  being  an 
article  of  general  demand,  even  in  localities  where 
coal  is  abundant. 

Firewood  does  not  hang  on  hand  for  any  length  of 
time,  for  what  is  not  sold  in  the  summer  is  easily  dis- 


364  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

posed  of  in  winter.     Chopping  may  be  done  either  by 
men  or  women,  but  it  is  more  suitable  for  men. 

In  sawing  wood  it  is  best  to  use  a  machine  that 
works  a  circular  saw,  as  it  cuts  quite  evenly,  and  re- 
quires only  muscular  strength  to  do  the  greater  part 
of  the  work,  which  meets  the  case  of  those  men  who 
have  moderate  strength  of  body,  but  not  much  capa- 
city. Feeding  the  saw,  however,  demands  the  exer- 
cise of  some  judgment  on  the  part  of  the  man  so 
engaged.  Tying  the  bundles  is  a  profitable  and 
healthful  work  for  women,  and  it  may  be  remarked 
that  firewood-making  owes  its  introduction  for  the 
use  of  the  blind  to  the  association  before  named. 

TURNING. 

Fancy  turning  has  been  practised  for  some  time  at 
Paris,  Lausanne,  and  a  few  other  places,  but  the  em- 
ployment is  more  ornamental  than  useful.  If  it  is  ever 
to  be  of  any  good  to  the  blind,  it  must  be  carried  on 
very  differently  to  the  method  hitherto  pursued.  To 
introduce  turnery  goods  with  profit,  the  blind  worker 
must  derive  the  same  aid  from  steam-power  as  his 
sighted  competitors.  Nor  does  this  seem  impossible 
of  attainment,  as  the  writer,  who  is  himself  without 
sight,  has  used  a  lathe  worked  by  steam,  although 
he  is  not  in  any  sense  a  member  of  the  trade; 
and  there  can  be  little  doubt  that,  if  properly  carried 
out,  steam-power  might  be  made  available  for  the 
blind.  It  should,  however,  not  be  forgotten  that  great 
care  must  be  taken  in  its  introduction  to  adopt  such 
special  means  as  may  be  required  under  the  peculiar 
circumstances  of  the  case  ;  the  problem  being  to  enable 
a  person  without  sight  to  work  safely  with  so  potent 
an  agent  as  steam. 

CARPENTRY  AND  CABINET-WORK. 
These  trades  are  capable  of  being  made  very  ser- 


REMARKS    ON    INDUSTRIAL   EMPLOYMENTS.  365 

viceable  to  persons  without  sight.  The  large  and 
widely-spread  demand  for  articles  connected  with  them, 
and  the  ability  displayed  in  their  prosecution  by  indi- 
vidual blind  persons,  unaided  by  regular  instruction, 
conclusively  point  out  these  employments  as  deserving 
of  a  well-organized  effort  to  make  them  available  as 
recognized  industries  for  the  blind. 

It  is  somewhat  remarkable  that  there  is  now  existing 
in  the  museum  at  Munich  a  pepper  mill,  the  whole  of 
which,  including  the  cog-wheels,  was  cut  out  with  a 
common  knife,  by  a  blind  man,  as  early  as  the  year 
1602.  From  that  time  to  the  present  various  isolated 
cases  have  occurred,  in  which  great  excellence  has 
been  reached  in  wood-work  by  persons  without  sight. 
About  the  middle  of  the  sixteenth  century  a  native  of 
Belgium,  named  Martin  Castelein,  obtained  some  noto- 
riety as  a  blind  carpenter  and  turner;  his  father 
instructed  him  in  these  arts  with  such  success  that  the 
Prince  of  Orange  became  the  patron  of  the  sightless 
workman.  Castelein,  among  other  articles,  made  an 
organ  with  wooden  pipes.  He  carried  on  business  at 
Anvers  (i.  e.  Antwerp),  where  he  died  towards  the  end 
of  the  sixteenth  century. 

At  the  commencement  of  the  present  century,  John 
Kay,  of  Glasgow,  worked  constantly  as  a  cabinet- 
maker, having  received  some  instruction  from  his  bro- 
thers. He  finished  his  work  in  a  very  satisfactory 
manner,  and  was  usually  occupied  in  producing  various 
articles  of  furniture,  which  fetched  good  prices  on 
account  of  their  excellence,  and  not  from  any  fictitious 
value  set  on  them  from  the  circumstances  connected 
with  their  maker. 

T.  Wilkinson,  of  Louth,  was  often  engaged  by 
various  persons  in  making  window  shutters,  and  in 
doing  sundry  household  repairs.  There  is  at  the 
present  time,  we  believe,  in  the  museum  of  Copen- 
hagen, a  superb  sideboard  of  ivory  and  ebony,  made 
many  years  ago  by  a  blind  Norwegian ;  and  the  writer 


"366  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

has  in  his  possession  a  large  book-case,  made  by  Mr. 
Farrow,  Teacher  of  the  Association  for  Promoting  the 
'General  Welfare  of  the  Blind,  London,  the  style  and 
finish  of  which  would  do  credit  to  any  artist.  Several 
experienced  cabinetmakers  have  examined  this  book- 
case, and  confessed  that  they  were  unable  to  discover 
anything  which  would  lead  them  to  believe  that  it  had 
not  been  made  by  a  finished  tradesman  with  all  his 
faculties.  Some  attention  has  been  paid  to  this  subject 
by  the  Association  for  Promoting  the  General  Welfare 
of  the  Blind,  and  persons  have  been  taught  to  make 
various  articles  of  domestic  use,  such  as  soap-boxes, 
housemaids'  boxes,  clothes  boxes,  knife-boards,  etc. 
But  owing  to  the  necessity  that  has  existed  for  the 
Association  to  keep  its  efforts  within  its  means,  any 
:great  development  of  trades  connected  with  wood-work 
has  been  impossible.  It  is,  however,  satisfactory  to 
find  that  the  articles  made  were  as  well  executed  as 
those  produced  by  sighted  workmen.  To  the  trades  of 
the  carpenter  and  the  cabinet-maker  might  also  be 
added  those  of  the  trunk -maker  and  the  packing-case 
maker,  which  might  be  carried  on  with  considerable 
success  under  proper  management.  Neither  does  the 
cooper's  art  exclusively  belong  to  the  sighted,  and  we 
hope  to  see  the  day  when  as  good  tubs  and  pails  will 
issue  from  the  workshops  of  the  blind  as  could  be 
desired  by  the  most  fastidious  housekeeper. 

TEADES  CONNECTED  WITH  LEATHER. 

From  time  to  time  various  efforts  have  been  made  to 
render  shoemaking  a  profitable  trade  for  the  blind,  and 
although  failure  has  uniformly  attended  such  efforts, 
yet  it  has  arisen  from  those  having  the  charge  of  the 
undertaking  not  having  understood  the  peculiar  diffi- 
culties with  which  sightless  operatives  have  to  contend, 
and  also  from  their  not  having  the  power  to  invent 
special  appliances  to  enable  their  sightless  pupils  to 


REMAKES    ON    INDUSTRIAL    EMPLOYMENTS.  367 

overcome  such  difficulties.  Institutions  at  Liverpool, 
London,  and  Philadelphia  have  severally  failed  in  this 
respect,  but  their  failure  should  only  be  used  as  a 
warning,  and  should  not  be  taken  as  a  reason  for 
abandoning  a  trade  which  possesses  many  advantages. 
The  manufacture  of  shoes  by  machinery  has  very  much 
changed  the  mode  of  carrying  on  the  business ;  but  we 
believe  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  altered  circum- 
stances of  the  case  to  which  the  blind,  under  proper 
training,  could  not  accommodate  themselves. 


SADDLE  AND  HARNESS  MAKING, 

too,  might  be  well  carried  on  by  persons  without  sight ; 
in  fact,  that  trade  is  free  from  many  difficulties  to  which 
shoemaking  is  liable.  But  in  all  cases  it  should  be 
borne  in  mind  that  the  conditions  of  success  are 
sufficient  capital,  a  teacher  who  knows  how  to  work 
without  sight,  tools  and  appliances  suited  to  the  wants 
of  the  blind,  liberal  wages  to  the  workpeople,  and  a 
market  for  the  manufactures. 

LEATHER  BAGS  AND  DRESSING-CASES 
might  also  be  made  with  profit ;  and  whatever  articles 
are  composed  of  leather  might  be  manufactured  by  the 
blind. 

CORKCUTTING. 

The  writer  has  long  held  the  opinion  that  cork- 
cutting  could  be  practised  without  sight,  and  this  view 
is  confirmed  by  the  circumstance  that  the  best  opera- 
tives, especially  in  Spain,  never  look  at  their  work. 
Something  in  this  direction  has  already  been  accom- 
plished by  the  making  of  cork  fenders,  for  the  use  of 
ships,  by  the  inmates  of  the  Liverpool  workshops  for 
the  out-door  blind  ;  and  we  are  persuaded  that,  if  pro- 
perly developed,  every  branch  of  the  corkcutter's 


368  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

trade  could  be  successfully  carried  on  without  sight. 
A  cork-cutting  machine  was  exhibited  at  the  Interna- 
tional Exhibition  of  1862,  which  the  writer  tried  with 
perfect  success.  It  was  an  American  invention,  and 
turned  out  an  extraordinary  number  of  corks  per  day. 
It  was  not  intended  specially  for  the  blind,  but  could 
be  used  by  them  as  well  and  as  quickly  as  by  other 
persons. 

POTTERY. 

The  manufactures  of  bricks  and  tobacco-pipes  have 
been  proved  by  experiment  to  be  quite  practicable  for 
the  blind ;  but  how  far  these  arts  could  be  made  to  pay 
has  yet  to  be  determined. 

There  does  not,  however,  appear  any  good  reason 
why  they  should  not  prove  remunerative  ;  and  it  may 
be  added  that  there  are  many  branches  of  the  potter's 
art  that  might  be  carried  on  without  sight. 

THE  MAKING  OF  SASH-LINE,  ROPE,  AND  TWINE. 

Sash-line  making  has  long  been  carried  on  in  several 
places,  but  the  difficulty  of  getting  sale  for  the  product, 
and  the  small  wages  made  when  work  is  obtained, 
entitle  it  to  be  considered  rather  as  an  amusement 
than  as  a  trade. 

Twine-spinning  and  rope-making  have  been  tried  at 
Liverpool,  Glasgow,  and  Copenhagen,  without  much 
success,  but  we  think  that  this  springs  from  the  want 
of  special  appliances  suited  to  the  necessities  of  the 
blind.  The  largeness  of  the  space  required  to  conduct 
these  operations  appears  to  be  the  principal  difficulty, 
but  of  late  several  machines  for  the  sighted  have  been 
invented,  especially  in  America,  which  quite  obviate 
this  defect. 

WlEE-WOEK. 

Wire-work  can  be  done  without  sight,  and  its 
development  would  be  found  particularly  advantageous. 


REMARKS   ON    INDUSTRIAL   EMPLOYMENTS.  369 

Articles  such  as  fire-guards,  meat-stands,  blinds,  sieves, 
bird-cages,  and  fencing,  etc.,  could  be  made  of  the 
material.  The  use  of  wire  fences  is  very  common  in 
some  rural  districts,  particularly  in  North  Wales,  where 
the  fields  are  usually  divided  by  this  means. 

REPAIRING  WATCHES  AND  CLOCKS. 

A  blind  man  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Camden  Town, 
London,  was  for  many  years  remarkable  as  a  repairer 
of  clocks  and  watches,  and  another,  at  Great  Missenden, 
Bucks,  carried  on  the  same  business.  About  fifty 
years  ago,  a  gentleman  passing  through  the  town  of 
Barnstaple,  North  Devon,  observed  a  sign  over  a  door 
denoting  that  clocks,  watches,  etc.,  were  repaired  by 
William  Huntly,  a  blind  man.  On  making  inquiries, 
he  was  informed  that  the  person  in  question  was  born 
blind,  or  at  least,  that  he  had  no  recollection  of  ever 
having  been  able  to  see.  He  was  trained  to  his  occu- 
pation by  his  father,  who  was  a  watch  and  clock  maker, 
and  after  his  parents'  death,  he  followed  the  business 
with  great  success,  being  considered  by  the  inhabitants 
very  superior  in  his  profession.  He  repaired  musical 
clocks  and  watches  without  difficulty,  and  our  autho- 
rity adds  that  it  often  happened  that  when  others 
had  failed  in  completely  repairing  a  watch  or  clock, 
Huntly  succeeded  in  discovering  and  remedying  the 
defect. 

Without  being  prepared  to  assert  that  watchmaking 
should  be  classed  as  one  of  the  employments  well 
suited  for  the  blind,  we  nevertheless  think  that  when- 
ever any  one  shows  a  decided  predilection  for  that 
trade  everything  should  be  done  to  enable  him  to 
carry  out  his  wishes. 

EMPLOYMENTS  CONNECTED  WITH  AGRICULTURE. 

What   is  there   in   the   nature  of  agriculture  that 

2  B 


370  BLINDNESS  AND   THE   BLIND.. 

should  render  it  unfit  to  be  practised  by  the  blind  ? 
The  diversities  of  plants,  their  state  as  to  development, 
and  the  different  kinds  of  soil,  are  all  cognizable  by 
the  touch,  and  yet  it  seems  to  have  been  taken  for 
granted  that  the  blind,  and  the  various  arts  connected 
with  farming,  are  separated  by  an  impassable  gulf. 
More  than  half  the  number  of  those  deprived  of  sight 
are  natives  of  rural  districts,  and  no  permanent  benefit 
will  ever  be  done  to  these  persons,  unless  it  be  effected 
in  a  way  calculated  to  meet  the  wants  of  their  condition. 
An  agricultural  labourer  becomes  blind,  say  at  the  age 
of  thirty,  what  is  required  to  be  done  for  him  ?  Should 
he  be  sent  a  hundred  miles  away  from  his  home,  to  be 
put  to  learn  a  trade  for  which  he  is  not  in  any  way 
suited?  His  hands  are  clumsy,  and  when  he  could 
see  he  had  not  by  any  means  the  dexterity  in  using 
his  fingers  which  belongs  to  the  denizens  of  towns. 
Basket-making,  it  is  true,  is  suited  to  the  wants  of 
rural  districts,  but  comparatively  very  few  have  the 
power  of  learning  this  trade,  on  account  of  the  difficulty 
of  making  the  baskets  shapable.  What,  then,  is  at 
present  done  for  our  blind  peasantry  ?  We  answer, 
next  to  nothing,  in  comparison  to  what  they  need,  and 
to  what  is  done  for  their  brethren  of  the  towns.  The 
state  of  idleness,  however,  in  which  they  are  sunk,  is 
not  an  inherent  necessity  of  their  condition,  but  it 
simply  results  from  the  little  attention  that  has  been 
paid  to  the  subject.  About  twenty  years  ago,  the 
writer  induced  some  half-dozen  blind  youths  to  turn 
amateur  gardeners ;  the  necessary  tools  were  procured, 
each  person  had  his  small  piece  of  ground  allotted  to 
him,  and  the  parties  set  to  work  in  healthful  rivalry  to 
see  who  should  produce  the  finest  crops.  The  ground 
was  none  of  the  best,  and  the  young  beginners  had  no 
efficient  instructor,  but  in  spite  of  these  drawbacks, 
very  good  crops  were  produced,  and  rival  specimens 
soon  appeared  of  mustard  and  cress,  lettuce,  onions, 
radishes,  etc. 


REMARKS    ON    INDUSTRIAL    EMPLOYMENTS.  371 

The  blind  son  of  a  labourer,  having  obtained  one  of 
the  allotments  of  garden  ground  made  by  a  kind- 
hearted  landowner  to  the  working  people  of  the  dis- 
trict, was  remarkable  for  getting  as  much  profit  out  of 
his  garden  plot  as  the  most  successful  of  his  neighbours, 
without  devoting  any  more  time  to  its  cultivation ;  and 
there  is  now,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  London,  a  vege- 
table and  flower  garden  cultivated  entirely  by  a  person 
without  sight,  which  will  compare  very  favourably  with 
any  piece  of  ground  in  the  locality,  cultivated  though 
it  be  by  a  professional  gardener. 

Instances  have  occurred  in  which  the  rearing  of 
poultry,  the  breeding  of  pigs,  and  the  keeping  of  cows, 
have  been  made  profitable  by  individual  blind  persons. 
We  are  persuaded  that,  if  a  well-organized  system 
of  farming  were  set  on  foot,  adapted  to  the  circum- 
stances of  persons  without  sight,  the  success  of  the 
undertaking  would  soon  be  apparent.  And  here  it  may 
be  mentioned  that  the  most  successful  agriculturist,  as 
well  as  the  most  clever  artisan,  ever  known  by  the 
writer,  is  Mr.  Farrow,  teacher  at  the  Institution  of  the 
Association  for  Promoting  the  General  Welfare  of  the 
Blind,  London. 

The  direction,  we  think,  an  experiment  in  farming 
should  first  take,  is  that  of  a  dairy  farm.  Butter  and 
cheese  might  be  made,  eggs  and  poultry  produced,  and 
pigs  bred  for  market.  The  author  has  himself  reaped 
and  mowed,  a  very  little  it  is  true,  but  still  enough  to 
show  that  blindness  is  not  an  insuperable  impediment 
in  the  case.  The  use  of  the  sickle  is  much  better  for 
the  blind  than  the  scythe,  as  the  reaper  has  the  free 
use  of  the  left  hand  to  regulate  his  movements.  The 
husbandman  without  sight  would  be  much  aided  by 
the  use  of  a  stout  rope  with  a  peg  at  each  end,  which 
could  be  thrust  into -the  ground,  and  removed  from 
time  to  time  to  enable  the  operator  to  dig  or  plant  in 
straight  lines.  Spade  husbandry,  as  commonly  used 
in  Belgium,  with  steel  implements,  would  be  better  for 

2  B  2 


372  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

the  blind,  as  it  would  dispense  with  the  use  of  the 
plough,  etc. ;  and  as  the  Belgian  mode  is  considered 
by  many  eminent  authorities  to  be  superior  to  that  of 
the  English,  no  pecuniary  loss  would  be  experienced 
by  its  adoption.  In  the  life  of  John  Metcalfe,  con- 
tained in  this  volume,  it  may  be  seen  how  successful  a 
blind  man  may  become  in  the  management  of  horses, 
and  we  will  only  add  here  a  few  remarks  bearing  on 
the  same  subject. 

A  gentleman  in  the  North  of  England,  a  few  years 
ago,  was  kind  enough  to  engage  as  his  ostler  a  poor 
man,  who,  although  totally  blind,  gave  great  satisfac- 
tion in  the  discharge  of  his  duties.  He  could  tell  the 
age,  the  state  of  the  eyes,  wind,  or  legs  of  any  horse. 

There  was  also  a  gentleman  of  Harrow  Weald,  who 
entrusted  the  care  of  his  horse  to  a  person  without 
sight,  and  the  writer  heard  an  anecdote  from  a  trust- 
worthy source,  of  a  farmer,  who,  having  received  the 
promise  of  the  loan  of  a  horse,  sent  a  blind  man,  whom 
he  employed  in  odd  jobs,  a  distance  of  three  miles  to 
fetch  the  animal.  On  returning,  the  farmer  remon- 
strated on  account  of  the  length  of  time  he  had  been 
gone,  when  the  poor  man  replied,  "  Well,  sir,  I  don't 
know  whether  it  is  me  or  the  horse,  but  I  never  found 
a  brute  so  hard  to  get  along  in  my  life."  On  examina- 
tion, it  was  found  that  the  horse  was  blind,  so  that  a 
blind  man  had  actually  been  driving  a  blind  horse ;  no 
wonder  that  it  was  found  a  difficult  task.  Before 
finally  quitting  the  subject  of  agriculture,  it  may  be 
remarked,  that  many  of  the  advances  recently  made  in 
that  science,  such  as  the  improvement  of  the  various 
soils  by  chemical  means,  may  eventually  prove  very 
beneficial  to  the  blind,  as  a  knowledge  of  agricultural 
chemistry  requires  a  development'  of  the  mental  powers, 
in  which  the  blind,  as  a  class,  are  certainly  not  inferior 
to  their  sighted  brethren. 


373 


REMARKS   ON  THE  PECULIAR  POSITION  OF 
BLIND  WOMEN. 

In  taking  into  consideration  the  position  of  blind 
females,  it  is  necessary  to  bear  in  mind  that  the  mar- 
riage state  is  a  normal  condition  of  human  happiness. 

In  the  case  of  men  without  sight,  this  almost  indis- 
pensable requisite  is  not  exceptionally  wanting,  for 
they  certainly  enter  into  the  bonds  of  matrimony  quite 
as  frequently,  in  proportion  to  their  numbers,  as  their 
sighted  neighbours;  but  with  blind  women  it  is  far 
otherwise,  and  as  single  life  generally  involves  the 
necessity  of  their  providing  for  their  own  maintenance, 
it  is  evident  that  the  position  of  females  suffering  from 
blindness  must  be  bad  in  the  extreme.  Want  of  mus- 
cular strength  prevents  their  following  many  employ- 
ments open  to  men.  Generally,  they  have  to  endure  a 
state  of  wretched  dependence  on  poor  relatives,  who 
have  barely  sufficient  of  the  necessaries  of  life  to  pro- 
vide for  their  own  daily  wants,  or  they  have  to  seek 
shelter  in  a  workhouse,  where  companionship  with  the 
vile  and  debased  makes  life  so  insupportable  that  the 
prayer  of  many  and  many  a  poor  blind  creature  has 
nightly  been  that  she  might  not  live  till  the  morning. 
Yes,  reader!  this  picture  is  not  coloured,  for  the  writer 
has  known  many  such  cases.  What,  then,  is  the  pro- 
blem before  us  ?  It  is  simply  this :  What  can  be  done 
to  remedy  the  exceedingly  heavy  sufferings  that  now 
press  so  grievously  upon  the  greater  number  of  blind 
females  ?  Woman  without  the  aid  of  man  is  naturally 
weak,  and  how  incomparably  so  must  they  be  who  are 
not  only  debarred  from  having  man's  aid,  but  are  also 
deprived  of  the  inestimable  blessing  of  sight !  Weak 
in  body,  fearful  in  mind,  utterly  without  friends  and 
pecuniary  resources,  and  their  condition  almost  ren- 
dered hopeless  by  that  greatest  of  all  afflictions,  blind- 
ness, the  position  of  the  greater  number  of  our  poor 
sightless  sisters  is  indeed  exceedingly  wretched.  What, 


374  BLINDNESS  AND   THE   BLIND. 

then,  can  be  done  to  help  these  children  of  misfor- 
tune ?  Let  us  see.  That  which  blind  women  specially 
need  is  a  home — a  happy  home,  where  their  joys  and 
sorrows  will  be  dear  to  some  one ;  and  is  it  impossible 
to  give  them  this  ?  Certainly  not !  and  let  those  who 
imagine  it  is  think  well  over  these  words  of  Christ, 
viz.  "Whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  to 
you  do  ye  even  so  to  them,  for  this  is  the  lav-  and  the 
prophets,"  and  "  Inasmuch  as  ye  did  it  not  unto  one 
of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  did  it  not  to  me." 
Various  institutions  have  at  different  times  been 
opened  in  this  and  other  countries  for  the  reception  of 
females  without  sight,  but  these  establishments  for 
the  most  part  are  for  educational  purposes,  into  which 
persons  are  received  for  a  few  years,  and  are  then  dis- 
missed without  resources,  to  get  through  the  world 
as  best  they  may.  There  are,  however,  a  few  asylums 
for  women  in  which  the  inmates  are  kept  during  their 
lives,  and  these  establishments  certainly  confer  greater 
happiness  on  those  committed  to  their  charge  than 
could  be  found  in  a  workhouse.  The  absence,  how- 
ever, of  the  family  tie  or  anything  approaching  to  it, 
the  want  of  the  free  exercise  of  religious  conviction, 
and  enforced  restraint,  often  very  injudiciously  admi- 
nistered, prevent  asylums  from  fully  meeting  the  wants 
of  the  class  of  persons  for  whom  they  are  intended, 
and  accordingly  instances  are  not  rare  in  which  women 
have  left  an  institution  that  had  sheltered  them  for  years, 
and  braved  the  evils  of  abject  poverty,  rather  than  be 
deprived  of  the  exercise  of  those  personal  rights  so 
dear  to  every  human  being.  The  plan  adopted  in  this 
matter  by  the  Association  for  Promoting  the  General 
Welfare  of  the  Blind,  London,  is  to  allow  the  women 
connected  with  the  society  to  live  where  they  please 
with  their  relatives,  if  they  have  any,  and  if  not  with 
any  one  else  they  may  choose,  and  to  permit  them  to 
attend  any  place  of  worship  they  may  desire,  the  Asso- 
ciation only  reserving  to  itself  the  right  of  interfe- 


EEMAEKS   ON   THE   POSITION   OP   BLIND   WOMEN,       375 

Tence  whenever  it  is  shown  to  the  satisfaction  of  the 
.committee  that  any  one  is  living  in  a  disreputable 
liouse.  The  amount  of  good  effected  by  this  means  is 
beyond  appreciation,  for  none  but  Him  who  knows 
the  secret  springs  of  happiness  in  the  human  heart 
can  estimate  the  joy  experienced  by  those  who  have 
an  object  in  life  for  which  to  live,  and  who  have  some 
place,  however  humble,  that  they  can  really  call  their 
own  home,  and  over  which  they  reign  supreme,  even 
though  it  may  only  occupy  the  space  of  a  few  square 
feet.  How  the  Association  before  named  affords  in- 
struction, gives  work,  and  grants  pensions  to  the  blind, 
according  to  their  circumstances,  is  so  fully  detailed 
in  another  part  of  this  book,  that  any  further  notice  of 
it  here  would  be  superfluous,  and  we  therefore  proceed 
to  remark  that  the  means  of  obtaining  a  subsistence 
open  to  blind  women  are  few  and  unremunerative,  and 
that,  as  a  general  rule,  their  earnings  have  to  be  sup- 
plemented by  charity,  even  to  a  greater  extent  than 
in  the  case  of  men.  The  employments  carried  on  by 
females  are  brush-drawing,  fine  basket-work,  repair- 
ing chairs,  tying  firewood,  making  sash-line,  knitting, 
netting,  crochet,  needlework  by  hand  and  by  machine ; 
and  for  remarks  on  these  and  other  similar  occupa- 
tions the  reader  is  referred  to  the  part  of  this  volume 
which  treats  specially  of  industrial  employments. 

Some  years  ago  many  blind  women  obtained  a  re- 
spectable livelihood  as  organists  and  teachers  of  the 
pianoforte;  but  since  the  growth  of  the  prejudice 
against  female  organists  in  general  and  all  blind  musi- 
cians, a  woman  who  has  the  misfortune  to  be  deprived 
of  sight  has  scarcely  the  shadow  of  a  chance,  whatever 
her  talents  may  be,  of  obtaining  a  subsistence  by  the 
musical  profession. 

The  training  of  young  girls  in  domestic  pursuits  is 
a  matter  of  the  greatest  importance.  Home  is  the 
irue  sphere  of  woman,  and  she  who  can  produce  do- 


376  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

mestio  comfort  possesses  the  surest  passport  to  the 
affections  of  a  household.  To  the  attainment  of  this 
most  desirable  object,  blindness  does  not  present  an 
insuperable  barrier.  Many  women  without  sight  have 
proved  skilful  housewives,  and  in  the  matters  of  plain 
cooking,  cleaning,  washing,  repairing  clothes,  and  in 
doing  the  thousand  and  one  things  which  go  to  make 
up  the  perfection  of  domestic  happiness,  they  have 
shown  themselves  the  equals  and  in  many  cases  the 
superiors  of  their  sighted  neighbours. 

It  is  a  fact  worthy  of  the  widest  circulation  that  the 
eminent  Dr.  Johnson  entrusted  the  entire  management 
of  his  domestic  affairs  to  a  blind  person,  namely,  Miss 
Williams,  the  poetess.  This  lady,  the  daughter  of  an 
ingenious  Welsh  physician,  and  a  woman  of  more  than 
ordinary  talent,  having  come  to  London  in  the  hope  of 
being  cured  of  cataract  which  affected  both  eyes,  and 
which  ended  in  total  blindness,  was  kindly  received  as 
a  constant  visitor  at  the  doctor's  house  while  Mrs. 
Johnson  lived,  and  after  her  death  Miss  Williams, 
having  taken  up  her  temporary  abode  with  Johnson, 
in  order  that  an  operation  might  be  performed  for  the 
recovery  of  sight,  eventually  became  a  permanent  re- 
sident with  him  whenever  he  had  a  house ;  and  it  may 
be  mentioned  that  Miss  Williams  often  remarked,  when 
astonishment  was  expressed  at  her  domestic  perform- 
ances, that  "  Persons  who  could  not  do  those  common 
offices  without  sight,  did  but  little  when  they  enjoyed 
that  blessing." 

There  have  been  many  blind  women  remarkable  as 
clever  housewives  besides  Miss  Williams,  and  some 
have  even  obtained  a  reputation  as  good  nurses.  One 
of  the  most  successful  of  the  latter  class  was  Martha 
Brass,  of  Liverpool,  who,  in  addition  to  possessing 
great  abilities  as  a  nurse,  was  remarkable  for  her  suc- 
cess as  a  shampooer.  She  was  born  at  Eichmond, 
Yorkshire,  and  was  for  thirteen  years  in  the  Liverpool 
Blind  Asylum.  On  leaving  that  institution  and  find- 


KEMAEKS    ON   THE    POSITION   OP   BLIND   WOMEN.      377 

ing  she  could  not  obtain  a  living  by  any  art  acquired 
there,  she  struck  out  a  new  path  for  herself  by  the 
adoption  of  the  professions  of  a  nurse  and  shampooer. 
In  this  undertaking  she  had  the  good  fortune  to  ob- 
tain the  patronage  of  Lord  Derby  (grandfather  of  the 
present  earl) ,  who  having  employed  her  as  shampooer 
for  upwards  of  twelve  years,  settled  upon  her  an  an- 
nuity which  she  enjoyed  until  her  death.  It  is. re- 
corded that  Martha  used  to  sit  up  with  patients  at 
night  and  give  them  their  medicine,  and  that  when  an 
article  was  required  from  any  part  of  the  house  she 
obtained  it  herself  without  difficulty.  She  died  in 
1868,  aged  seventy-one,  leaving  £2000,  saved  from 
her  earnings  and  the  benefactions  of  her  patrons. 
Although  Martha  succeeded  in  amassing  so  large  a 
sum  she  was  no  miser,  as  memoranda  left  by  her  show 
that  during  her  life  various  sums,  amounting  to  £900, 
were  given  away  in  charity.  She  was  never  married, 
but  had  several  offers  which  she  pertinaciously  refused. 
She  left  by  will  the  following  legacies  : — The  Blind 
Asylum,  £250;  the  Orphan  Boys'  Asylum,  the  Female 
Orphan  Asylum,  the  Infant  School,  the  Workshops 
for  the  Out-door  Blind,  the  Deaf  and  Dumb  Asylum, 
the  Society  for  the  Prevention  of  Cruelty  to  Animals, 
the  Northern  Hospital  and  the  Southern  Hospital, 
each  £10.  All  these  charities  are  in  Liverpool.  She 
also  left  £20  to  the  School  for  the  Blind,  York. 

It  is  much  to  be  wished  that  the  various  institutions 
that  undertake  the  training  of  blind  females  should 
give  to  their  pupils  useful  instruction  in  household 
matters;  but  in  doing  this  care  should  be  taken  to 
procure  the  services  of  instructors  above  the  standard 
of  ordinary  servants.  It  is  also  greatly  to  be  desired 
that  a  small  work  should  be  printed  in  relief,  giving 
practical  hints  and  suggestions  respecting  cooking 
and  general  domestic  economy.  No  fears  need  be  en- 
tertained regarding  the  blind  being  allowed  to  light 
fires,  as  hundreds  of  persons  have  constantly  done  so 


•378  BLINDNESS  AND   THE   BLIND. 

without  having  produced  a  single  accident,  although 
in  many  of  the  cases  no  sighted  person  resided  on  the 
premises. 

The  blind  know  when  water  boils  by  its  making  a 
softer  and  more  mellow  noise  than  it  does  before  reach- 
ing the  boiling-point.  When  pouring  hot  water  into 
a  cup  or  other  vessel,  the  extent  to  which  the  vessel  is 
filled  may  be  told  by  pressing  the  left  hand  against 
its  outside  during  the  time  that  the  process  of  pouring 
is  going  on. 

Some  persons,  by  dint  of  long  practice,  can  thread 
needles  of  moderate  size  without  any  assistance  than 
that  of  their  fingers,  and  others  call  in  the  aid  of  their 
tongue  and  teeth.  A  very  simple  mode,  however,  and 
one  which  requires  little  practice,  is  to  take  a  piece 
of  fine  wire,  and  having  put  one  end  through  the  eye 
of  a  needle,  pass  the  other  also  through  the  eye  so 
that  the  two  ends  may  lie  together,  and  having  drawn 
the  needle  for  a  few  inches  along  the  double  wire,  pass 
the  thread  through  the  loop  of  the  wire,  then,  press- 
ing the  loop  tightly  with  the  thumb  and  forefinger  of 
the  right  hand,  draw  the  wire  and  the  thread  through 
the  eye  of  the  needle  as  may  be  desired.  On  com- 
mencing the  operation,  the  needle  should  be  held  in 
the  left  hand  and  the  wire  in  the  right,  the  wire  should 
be  as  thin  as  fine  silk,  and  it  may  be  remarked  that 
the  plan  is  available  alike  for  common  needles  and  for 
those  used  in  sewing  machines.  Special  needles  for 
the  blind  have  been  introduced,  with  a  small  slit  at 
the  side,  to  allow  of  the  thread  being  pressed  into  the 
eye;  but  they  catch  so  much  in  the  work,  and  the  eyes 
break  so  frequently,  that  they  are  of  very  little  use, 
and  therefore  a  common  needle,  threaded  with  wire  as 
above  described,  is  what  we  recommend  to  the  blind 
who  would  avoid  unnecessary  trouble. 

OX  THE  INSTRUCTORS   OF  THE  BLIND. 
If  we  wish  anything  performed,  they  to  whom  it  is 


ON    THE    INSTEUCTOBS    OF    THE    BLIND.  379 

entrusted  should  possess  the  necessary  qualifications  if 
we  would  have  it  done  well,  and  it  is  a  statement  in- 
capable of  disproof,  that  he  who  knows  not  how  to  do 
anything  himself  cannot  teach  another  to  do  it.  From 
this  it  follows  that  those  who  are  unable  to  work  with- 
out the  aid  of  sight  cannot  teach  others  to  do  so. 
How  then  it  may  be  asked  do  sighted  instructors  teach 
the  blind?  They  do  not  teach  them  at  all,  in  the 
true  sense  of  the  word;  they  merely  bring  them  in 
contact  with  the  work,  and  let  them  teach  themselves, 
if  they  have  capacity  enough,  and  if  not  they  go  un- 
taught, and  it  is  in  this  way  that  the  largeness  of  the 
number  of  pupils  who  are  supposed  to  be  incapable 
may  be  accounted  for.  In  the  larger  institutions  for 
the  blind  this  evil  is  somewhat  lessened  by  the  aid 
which  the  advanced  pupils  give  to  the  novices ;  but  in 
the  smaller  establishments  the  evils  connected  with 
sighted  teachers  are  particularly  apparent,  and  thus 
we  generally  find  that  the  best  workmen  come  from 
large  institutions.  Of  course  we  do  not  mean  to  say 
that  no  sighted  man  can  become  an  efficient  instructor 
of  persons  without  sight,  for  we  have  known  several 
who  have  been  equal  to  the  most  talented  blind 
teachers ;  but  this  has  been  after  they  had  passed 
through  many  years  of  daily  experience  with  the  sight- 
less, and  had,  from  having  their  hearts  in  the  work,  so 
accustomed  themselves  to  the  use  of  the  sense  of 
touch,  that  they  had  ceased  to  depend  on  their  sight. 
The  ordinary  sighted  teacher  may  be  painstaking  and 
possessed  of  every  virtue,  but  still  he  does  everything 
by  the  aid  of  the  eye.  Take  sight  from  him  and  he  is 
helpless,  he  can  do  nothing.  The  blind  man,  on  the 
contrary,  does  everything  by  the  sense  of  touch,  and 
he  who  cannot  teach  him  to  use  that  sense  aright  is 
not  the  instructor  he  requires.  Undoubtedly  the 
sighted  man  can  exhibit  to  his  blind  pupils  the  beauti- 
ful work  he  can  do,  and  can  show  them  how  quickly 
he  can  perform  it ;  but  this  does  not  instruct  them  in 


380  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

the  way  to  use  their  fingers,  so  as  to  produce  that 
without  sight  which  is  accomplished  by  the  teacher 
by  the  aid  of  sight. 

When  it  was  determined,  in  1855,  in  connection 
with  the  Institution  in  the  Eustou  Road,  London,  to 
endeavour  to  introduce  brushmaking  for  the  blind,  ex- 
perienced tradesmen  were  consulted,  who  all  gave  it 
as  their  opinion  that  the  thing  was  impossible.  When, 
however,  without  any  professional  assistance,  draw- 
ing, i.e,,  inserting  the  hair,  was  accomplished,  they 
admitted  that  that  could  be  done,  but  said  the  finishing 
could  not.  When  the  finishing  was  achieved  they  said 
the  boring  was  impracticable,  and  when  that  was  con- 
quered -they  simply  held  their  tongues.  This  incident 
is  only  a  fair  sample  of  what  takes  place  on  the  at- 
tempted introduction  of  a  new  art  for  the  blind,  for  the 
sighted  man,  without  many  years'  experience,  can  never 
be  brought  really  to  believe  that  that  can  be  done  as 
well  without  sight  which  he  finds  it  so  difficult  to  do 
with  it. '  We  know  there  have  been  many  inefficient 
blind  teachers,  but  this  has  in  great  part  arisen  from 
their  not  having  received  proper  instruction  in  the  art 
of  teaching.  Yery  frequently,  however,  they  have 
been  considered  inefficient  without  sufficient  cause. 
The  necessity  that  often  exists  in  small  institutions  for 
the  person  employed  as  teacher  to  be  also  a  kind  of 
shopman  and  general  factotum  militates  very  much 
against  the  blind,  and  wherever  the  plan  is  adopted 
renders  proper  instruction  impossible.  The  amount  of 
prejudice  that  may  exist  against  the  blind,  even  with 
the  managers  of  those  institutions  which  are  supported 
for  the  purpose  of  improving  the  condition  of  the 
sightless,  is  strongly  shown  by  the  following  facts  : — 

The  committee  of  a  society  that  shall  be  nameless, 
having  a  blind  teacher,  with  whose  conduct  they  were 
not  pleased,  dismissed  him.  They  then  engaged  a 
sighted  man,  but  he  was  also  soon  discharged,  and, 
when  speaking  of  these  occurrences  in  their  annual 


ON    THE    INSTRUCTORS    OP    THE    BLIND.  381 

report,  the  committee  informed  the  supporters  of  the 
institution  that  they  had  dismissed  one  teacher  on 
account  of  incapacity,  occasioned  by  want  of  sight,  and 
had  discharged  another  who  could  see,  as  he  did  not 
suit.  Now,  as  the  committee  stated  that  they  had  dis- 
missed one  for  being  blind,  why  did  they  not  also  say 
that  they  had  discharged  the  other  for  being  able  to 
see  ?  But  if  this  would  have  made  them  look  too  ri- 
diculous, why  did  they  not  simply  record  that  having 
found  one  of  the  teachers  incapable,  they  had  engaged 
another,  and  as  he  too  was  found  not  to  give  satis- 
faction, he  had  also  been  dismissed  ? 

Some  years  ago  the  writer  happened  to  visit  a  blind 
asylum  where  some  ill-feeling  existed  between  the 
superintendent,  who  could  see,  and  his  pupils,  and  the 
ill-feeling  was  in  110  way  lessened  by  the  superinten- 
dent making  no  secret  of  his  belief  that  sight  was 
necessary  to  enable  any  one  to  become  a  good  in- 
structor of  the  blind.  Both  parties  appealed  to  the 
writer,  who  had  the  pleasure  of  inducing  them  to 
agree  to  the  proposition  that  efficiency  was  the  only 
standard  in  the  case,  and  that  this  efficiency  was  more 
likely  to  be  found  with  those  who  understood  the 
wants  of  the  blind  from  personal  experience,  than 
with  those  who  had  always  enjoyed  the  free  use  of 
their  eyes.  Before  quitting  this  subject,  we  cannot 
forbear  remarking  on  the  great  necessity  which  exists 
for  the  establishment  of  a  normal  school,  in  which  all 
who  aspire  to  the  position  of  instructors  of  the  blind 
might  receive  a  suitable  training.  Such  an  institution 
should  be  open  both  to  the  blind  and  to  the  sighted, 
and  should  embrace  the  study  of  everything  connected 
with  the  welfare  of  persons  without  sight. 

At  present  the  instructors  of  the  blind  receive  no 
special  training,  and  it  is  surely  a  matter  worthy  of  the 
attention  of  the  imperial  legislature,  to  see  that  the 
education  and  general  welfare  of  so  large  and  heavily- 
afflicted  a  class  as  that  of  the  blind  should  not  be  left 
to  the  management  of  the  incapable. 


382 

THE  BLIND  OF  VARIOUS  COUNTRIES. 

EUROPE. 
Russia. 

As  no  census  is  taken  of  the  blind  in  Russia,  their 
total  number,  and  the  ratio  they  bear  to  the  general 
population,  cannot  be  accurately  ascertained.  It  has, 
however,  been  estimated  by  statisticians  of  eminence, 
that  the  average  number  of  the  blind  in  countries 
possessing  the  same  general  characteristics  as  the 
Russian  empire  is  one  in  every  eight  hundred  of  the 
population ;  and  as  the  inhabitants  of  Russia  in 
Europe  exceed  sixty-four  millions,  the  blind  cannot 
be  fewer  than  eighty  thousand.  To  meet  the  wants, 
and  alleviate  the  privations  of  this  large  number  of 
sightless  ones,  next  to  nothing  has  been  done  by  the 
paternal  government  of  the  autocrat  of  All  the  Russias, 
and  as  the  union  of  individuals  for  the  promotion  of 
schemes  of  benevolence  is  almost  unknown,  the  state 
of  the  eighty  thousand  blind  Muscovites  must  be 
pitiable  in  the  extreme. 

In  1806  the  Emperor  Paul,  having  entered  into  a 
close  alliance  with  Napoleon,  and  declared  war  against 
England,  wished  to  imitate  the  French  in  every  pos- 
sible way ;  and  among  the  numerous  things  introduced 
into  Russia  from  "  La  Belle  France/'  was  a  school 
for  the  instruction  of  the  blind,  which  was  established 
at  St.  Petersburg  by  Valentine  Hatiy  in  the  year  above 
named.  Haiiy,  when  he  accepted  the  imperial  invita- 
tion, took  with  him  one  of  his  blind  pupils,  named 
Faurnier,  who  married,  and  spent  the  remainder  of  his 
life  at  St.  Petersburg. 

In  1825  an  institution  was  founded  at  Warsaw. 
One  has  also  been  established  at  Helsingfors,  the 
capital  of  Finland,  and  at  Gatchina,  a  small  town 
about  thirty  miles  from  St.  Petersburg.  We  believe 
that  there  is  also  an  establishment  at  Riga. 


THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTEIES.  383 

When  Holman,  the  blind  traveller,  visited  St. 
Petersburg  in  1822,  he  found  the  Blind  Institution  of 
that  city  in  a  most  flourishing  condition.  Eeading  by 
touch  was  practised  extensively,  and  the  inmates  were 
enabled  to  print  their  own  books.  Music  was  culti- 
vated to  a  considerable  degree,  and  the  pupils  were 
largely  engaged  in  manufacturing  baskets,  mats,  and 
ropes.  Holman  says  that  he  "left  the  place  highly 
gratified  and  deeply  impressed  with  the  benevolence 
of  the  Emperor,  under* whose  especial  patronage  it 
was  conducted." 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  we  have  no  later  ac- 
counts of  any  Russian  establishment  for  the  blind,  but 
the  general  advancement  that  has  of  late  years  taken 
place  in  the  empire  of  everything  which  tends  to 
ameliorate  the  condition  of  the  humbler  classes  war- 
rants the  assumption  that  at  least  the  Institution  for 
the  Blind  at  St.  Petersburg  has  not  retrograded. 

Sweden  and  Norway. 

These  countries,  although  united  under  one  monarch, 
and  possessing  similar  characteristics  with  regard  to 
race,  soil,  climate,  language,  and  social  habits,  yet 
with  respect  to  the  proportion  which  the  number  of 
the  blind  bears  to  the  general  population,  differ  as 
widely  as  any  two  parts  of  the  world  well  can,  for 
whereas  in  Sweden  the  blind  are  as  1  in  every  1419 
of  the  inhabitants,  in  Norway  the  ratio  is  as  great  as  1 
in  540.  This  wide  difference  affords  matter  for  very 
interesting  inquiries  for  ethnologists,  and  its  solution 
may  some  day  produce  important  results.  The  number 
of  the  blind  in  Sweden  is  2,536  in  a  population  of 
3,641,011,  whereas  Norway,  with  only  a  population  of 
l,490,047,has  no.  fewer  than  2,759  persons  without  sight, 
which  is  a  relative  proportion  of  nearly  three  blind  persons 
in  Norway  to  one  in  Sweden.  There  is  a  school  for  the 
blind  in  Sweden,  which  was  established  at  Stockholm 


384  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

in  1806,  in  which  books  embossed  in  the  Roman  type 
are  used,  and  where  a  modification  of  Moon's  type  is 
also  employed,  the  books  being  printed  on  that  mode 
at  the  institution.  The  pupils  also  use  a  Swedish  in- 
vention for  embossing  in  Roman  type  by  hand,  an 
apparatus  for  pencil  writing,  and  an  arithmetical  board 
with  common  figures,  but  none  of  these  contrivances 
possess  special  merit.  We  believe  the  principal  trades 
carried  on  are  those  of  basket-making  and  knitting. 

At  Christiania  (the  capital  of  Norway)  an  institution 
has  been  founded  during  the  last  few  years,  but  we  are 
not  aware  that  it  possesses  any  feature  of  interest. 

Denmark 

According  to  a  census  taken  before  the  separation  of 
the  German  Duchies  from  Denmark,  it  was  found  that 
there  was  one  blind  person  in  every  1,523  of  the  popu- 
lation, and  taking  the  Danish  kingdom  as  now  only 
comprehending  the  peninsula  of  Jutland,  and  the  adja- 
cent islands,  and  assuming  the  population  to  be  about 
1,800,000,  the  number  of  the  blind  in  the  country  can- 
not be  less  than  1,200.  In  1811,  a  school  for  the  blind 
was  established  at  Copenhagen,  by  a  body  of  persons 
called  the  Society  of  the  Chain,  which  organization 
seems  to  resemble  very  much  that  of  the  Freemasons. 
The  institution  continued  under  the  management  of 
this  society  until  1857,  when  it  received  State  patron- 
age, was  reorganized,  and  named  the  Royal  Institu- 
tion for  the  Blind,  placed  under  the  able  management 
of  Her  Moldenhaver,  and  had  a  sum  allowed  it  from 
the  Royal  Treasury  of  two  thousand  dollars  per  annum. 
When  the  institution  was  transferred  to  the  State,  the 
Society  of  the  Chain  endowed  it  with  eight  thousand 
dollars,  by  which  it  obtained  the  privilege  of  constantly 
having  the  power  of  nominating  two  directors  out  of 
the  five,  to  whom  the  management  of  the  charity  was 
committed.  The  Society  of  the  Chain,  however,  still 


THE    BLIND    OP   VAEIOUS    COUNTRIES.  3.85 

seems  to  have  had  a  small  charity  for  the  blind  under 
their  own  management,  which,  in  1864,  extended 
assistance  to  thirteen  old  men  and  four  children,  and 
the  Royal  Institution  for  the  Instruction  of  Children 
had  at  the  same  date  about  sixty  inmates.  In  1862,  an 
Association  for  Promoting  the  Industrial  Welfare  of 
the  Blind  was  founded  at  Copenhagen,  somewhat  on 
the  plan  of  the  London  Association,  and  two  years  later 
it  had  thirty  blind  persons  connected  with  it.  At  the 
Royal  Institution,  both  sexes  are  admitted,  and  the 
common  alphabet  is  employed  for  reading,  the  Danish 
and  Norwegian  Bible  Societies  having  contributed 
toward  the  embossing  of  some  of  the  books  of  the 
Holy  Scriptures.  They  have  at  Copenhagen  a  very 
efficient  mode  of  pencil  writing,  which  is  an  improve- 
ment on  Gall's  Typhlograph,  and  also  a  useful  con- 
trivance for  embossing  the  common  letters  by  hand, 
but  the  expense  and  weight  of  the  latter  invention 
interfere  greatly  with  its  usefulness.  We  believe  that 
basket-making  is  the  principal  handicraft  carried  on, 
and  that  rope-making,  shoe-making,  brush-making, 
and  knitting  are  also  taught,  and  it  is  to  be  observed 
that  music  is  cultivated  to  a  considerable  extent.  In 
Denmark,  blindness  very  frequently  results  from 
scrofula,  produced,  it  is  said,  by '  the  use  of  impure 
virus  in  the  vaccination  of  children. 

Before  quitting  this  subject,  we  may  remark  that  in 
Iceland  (which  is  a  dependency  of  Denmark)  there 
is  the  large  proportion  of  one  blind  person  to  every  292 
of  the  inhabitants.  This  high  ratio  is  almost  unpre- 
cedented, but  the  island  being  on  the  Arctic  circle 
fully  accounts  for  the  circumstance,  as  the  reflection  of 
the  moon  upon  snow  is  very  prejudicial  to  sight. 

TH"E  GEKMAN  EMPIRE. 

The  ratio  which  the  number  of  the  blind  bears  to 
the  general  population  of  this  extensive  country  varies 

2  c 


386  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

considerably  in  the  different  states,  for  while  in  Bavaria 
it  is  1  in  1986,  in  Hesse  Darmstadt  it  is  as  great  as 
1  in  1231 ;  taking,  however,  as  a  general  average, 
that  it  is  1  in  1600,  and  accepting  the  population  of 
the  empire  as  43,000,000,  we  find  that  the  total  number 
of  the  blind  is  about  27,000. 

The  first  institution  for  the  blind  in  Germany  was 
commenced  at  Berlin  by  Valentine  Haiiy,  in  1806, 
when  Herr  Zeune,  the  celebrated  inventor  of  relief  maps 
and  globes,  was  appointed  director. 

The  example  of  Berlin  was  followed  by  Dresden, 
1809;  Konigsberg,  1818;  Breslau,  1819;  Ymund, 
1823;  Munich,  1825;  Weimar,  1825;  Bruchsal,  1826; 
Friesenberg,  1828;  Brunswick,  1829;  Hamburg, 
1830;  Halle,  1832;  Mannheim,  1846 ;  Stettin,  1851; 
Magdeburg,  1853;  Posen,  1853;  Wolstein,  1853; 
Wurzburg,  1853;  Mecklenburg-Schwerin,  1856; 
Illzach,  near  Mulhausen,  1856;  Wiesbaden,  1861. 
There  are  also  institutions  at  Diien,  Ellwanger,  Frank- 
fort, Freiberg,  Freidberg- Hesse,  Hanover,  Harbertus- 
berg,  Kiel,  Leipzig,  Metz,  Nuremberg,  Soest,  and 
Stuttgart. 

In  these  thirty-three  institutions  the  mode  of  read- 
ing adopted,  almost  without  a  single  exception,  is  that 
of  the  common  Roman  alphabet,  although  at  Berlin, 
Hanover,  etc.  other  systems  are  tolerated. 

The  Bible  Society  of  Stuttgart  has  contributed  largely 
to  the  production  of  the  embossed  German  Bible,  the 
greater  part  of  which  was  printed  at  the  Institution 
for  the  Blind  at  Illzach,  near  Mulhausen  or  Mulhouse, 
and  which  owes  its  completion  chiefly  to  the  labours 
of  M.  Koechlin,  the  blind  director,  and  founder  of  the 
Illzach  Institution;  in  connection  with  this  matter 
it  may  be  stated  that  the  distribution  of  the  embossed 
German  Bible  was  greatly  aided  by  a  large  donation 
from  a  philanthropic  Russian.  The  apparatus  for 
writing  and  performing  the  operations  of  arithmetic, 
etc.  and  the  maps,  are  similar  to  those  described  in 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  387 

this  volume  under  their  respective  heads.  The  culti- 
vation of  music  is  also  another  characteristic  common 
to  the  German  institutions.  In  all  of  them  the  eupho- 
nious art  is  practised,  and  in  the  majority  it  is  cultivated 
as  a  means  of  livelihood.  The  industrial  employments 
of  basket-making  for  males,  and  knitting  for  females, 
are  universally  adopted.  The  making  of  list  shoes  and 
straw  mats,  and  the  re-seating  of  chairs  with  cane 
and  rush,  are  also  very  common ;  and  we  believe  that 
brush-making  is  practised  at  Dresden  and  Kiel,  the 
lathe  for  the  work  at  the  latter  place  having  been  pro- 
cured from  the  Association  for  Promoting  the  General 
Welfare  of  the  Blind,  London.  Rope-making  is  carried 
on  at  Hanover,  and  the  art  of  turning  at  Munich.  In  the 
case  of  nearly  all  the  foregoing  establishments,  their 
support  is  derived  from  the  government  of  the  king- 
dom or  principality  in  which  they  are  located.  Some- 
times, indeed,  the  aid  given  by  the  State  is  supple- 
mented by  private  benevolence;  but,  as  a  rule,  the 
blind  institutions  of  the  German  empire  are  supported 
by,  and  are  under  the  management  of,  the  different  local 
governments.  The  schools  are  open  to  all,  irrespective 
of  creed ;  but  it  is  very  much  to  be  feared  that  this 
toleration  results  not  so  much  from  the  exercise  of 
true  Christian  charity,  as  from  the  spirit  of  laisscr  faire, 
to  call  it  by  no  harsher  name,  which  has  been  so  rife 
in  Germany  and  England  of  late.  A  few  years  ago 
there 'were  at  the  Berlin  Institution  not  more  than 
forty  pupils  of  both  sexes,  while  at  Hanover,  th*e  num- 
ber was  seventy,  at  Dresden  ninety,  at  Hamburg  eighty, 
and  at  Breslau  sixty. 

In  Germany  the  blind  institutions  generally  include 
both  males  and  females,  who  occupy  opposite  wings  of 
the  same  building,  whereas  in  France,  Belgium,  and 
other  Catholic  countries,  the  two  sexes  inhabit  premises 
at  different  parts  of  the  city ;  and  sometimes  they  are 
situated  in  different  towns.  It  must,  however,  be  re- 
marked, that  at  L'Institution  des  Aveugles,  Paris, 

2  c  2 


388  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

the  boys  and  girls  are  located  in  adjoining  pre- 
mises. 

The  German  institutions  are  remarkable  for  the 
favour  shown  to  blind  officials.  The  establishment 
of  Breslau  was  founded  and  managed  for  nearly  half  a 
century  by  the  celebrated  Knie.  At  Hamburg  they 
had  also  a  blind  director  for  many  years,  and  the 
founder  and  present  director  of  the  institution  at  Kiel, 
Herr  Simonon,  is  also  without  sight. 

At  Dresden,  some  years  ago,  the  excellent  director, 
Dr.  Georgi,  collected  a  sum  of  six  thousand  pounds,  the 
interest  of  which  was  applied  for  the  benefit  of  the 
pupils  on  their  quitting  the  institution.  Dr.  Georgi 
lent  or  gave  them  sums  of  money  for  the  purchase  of 
tools  and  materials,  and  it  is  said  that  the  sums  lent 
were  always  duly  repaid.  He  received  work  from  some 
of  those  who  lived  at  a  distance  from  the  institution,  and 
remitted  the  money  to  them  when  the  articles  were 
sold ;  and  it  is  greatly  to  the  credit  of  the  directors  of 
the  Saxon  railways  that  they  allowed  the  officials  of 
the  institution,  and  all  blind  persons,  materials,  and 
manufactured  goods  connected  therewith,  to  travel 
free  of  charge. 

The  interest  taken  by  the  King  of  Saxony  in  the 
welfare  of  the  blind  is  truly  remarkable,  for  it  is  stated 
on  credible  authority  that  his  Majesty  used  constantly 
to  read  the  written  journals  presented  by  the  officials 
to  the  managers  of  the  Dresden  Institution,  and  made 
marginal  notes  with  his  own  hand,  expressing  his  views 
on  the  subjects  before  him.  This  sympathy  and  con- 
cord between  the  king  and  the  people  are  the  more 
striking,  as  the  present  Royal  family  of  Saxony  are 
members  of  the  Romish  Church,  while  the  great  mass 
of  the  people  are  Lutherans. 

At  Berlin  some  attempts  have  been  made  to  give 
employment  to  the  blind  in  workshops,  but  without 
much  success ;  and  it  may  be  also  mentioned  that 
materials  are  sold,  and  sums  of  money  lent  to  the 


THE   BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTEIES.  389 

pupils  who  leave  the  Breslau  Institution,  and  that  the 
establishment  at  Hamburg  is  remarkable  for  the  ex- 
cellence of  the  gymnastic  training  given  to  the  pupils. 
We  believe  that  there  are  four  institutions  for  the 
blind  at  Berlin  of  various  kinds,  but  that  all  of  them 
are  on  a  very  small  scale. 

A  few  years  ago  a  periodical  was  issued  in  black 
print  at  Hesse  Cassel,  exclusively  devoted  to  subjects 
connected  with  the  blind  and  the  deaf  and  dumb  which 
we  believe  still  exists. 


THE  AUSTRIAN  EMPIRE. 

It  is  a  matter  of  surprise  that  the  government  of  so 
important  a  country  as  Austria  should  not  have  thought 
it  worth  while  to  have  a  census  taken  of  the  number  of 
the  blind,  and  other  similar  classes  in  its  dominions. 
If,  however,  we  consider  the  proportion  which  the 
number  of  those  deprived  of  sight  bears  to  the  general 

Eopulation  in  countries  occupying  the  same  degrees  of 
ititude  as  the  Austrian  territories,  and  if  we  bear  in 
mind  the  ratio  of  the  blind  in  the  neighbouring  States, 
we  are  led  to  infer  that  the  proportion  in  Austria  is 
about  one  in  every  one  thousand  of  the  people ;  and 
as  the  total  population  of  the  various  countries  now 
owning  allegiance  to  the  House  of  Hapsburg  is  about 
33,000,000,  the  number  of  the  blind  in  the  empire  can- 
not be  less  than  33,000.  The  first  institution  for 
the  blind  in  the  Austrian  dominions  was  commenced 
by  Dr.  Klein,  at  Vienna,  in  1804. 

In  1807  a  similar  establishment  was  founded  at 
Prague,  in  Bohemia,  and  in  1825  one  was  opened  at 
Pesth,  in  Hungary.  There  are  also  similar  schools  at 
Lintz,  in  upper  Austria,  and  Brunn,  in  Moravia.  The 
mode  of  reading  adopted  in  these  five  institutions  is  that 
of  the  embossed  Roman  type,  with  capitals  and  small 
letters,  and  the  method  of  pricking  the  Roman  letters 


390  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIWD-. 

is  employed  for  writing.  There  ^eems  nothing  specially 
remarkable  in  the  educational  appliances  in  use, 
except  that  bas-relief  figures  of  animals  are  employed 
to  assist  in  the  study  of  natural  history.  These 
figures  are,  however,  of  little  use,  and  are  not  by  any 
means  as  good  as  stuffed  specimens.  Music  seems  to 
be  cultivated  in  all  the  institutions  as  a  future  means  of 
livelihood,  and  the  industrial  arts  common  to  the  esta- 
blishments are  basket-making,  rush  and  straw-plaiting, 
the  making  of  list  shoes,  and  knitting ;  brush-making 
is  also  carried  on  at  Brunn.  All  the  blind  schools 
derive  their  chief  support  from  the  State,  and  the 
total  number  of  inmates  is  from  three  to  four  hun- 
dred. Dr.  Klein,  the  founder  of  the  Vienna  Institu- 
tion, also  became  its  first  director,  in  which  position 
he  occupied  himself  for  about  half  a  century  in  constant 
and  unremitting  efforts  for  the  welfare  of  those  com- 
mitted to  his  charge ;  and  although  the  practical  re- 
sults of  his  labours  are  not  such  as  the  length  of  time 
and  the  attention  devoted  to  the  subject  might  lead  us 
to  expect,  yet  this  seems  to  result  rather  from  the  pre- 
ference which  the  Germans  so  long  gave  to  theory  as 
compared  with  practical  utility,  than  from  any  want  of 
interest  shown  in  the  subject  by  Dr.  Klein ;  as,  how- 
ever, things  in  general  are  now  mending  in  Austria, 
we  hope  that  the  blind  may  share  in  the  advantages  of 
the  change.  Printing  in  relief  does  not  appear  to  have 
been  regularly  carried  on  in  Austria  until  1831,  when 
the  publishers  Treunsinsky,  of  Vienna,  issued  several 
volumes,  which  seems  to  have  acted  as  an  incentive  to 
the  State  Government,  as,  soon  after,  books  for  the 
blind  were  embossed  at  the  imperial  press.  In  182:5 
an  asylum  for  adults  was  opened  at  Vienna  for  the  re- 
ception of  those  who  had  passed  through  the  educa- 
tional establishment.  In  this  asylum  the  inmates  are 
boarded  and  lodged,  and  employed  in  some  manual 
occupation,  the  object,  however,  being  rather  to  amuse 
the  workers  than  to  derive  any  pecuniary  advantage 


THE   BLIND   OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  391 

from  their  labours.  Thus,  although  in  1855  the  num- 
ber of  persons  in  the  asylum  was  70,  the  amount  of 
cash  taken  on  account  of  sales  of  their  work  was  only 
about  £70,  or  one  pound  per  annum  per  head ;  and 
this  circumstance  is  rendered  more  remarkable  from 
the  long  list  of  industrial  employments  said  to  be 
carried  on,  which  comprises  the  manufacture  of  baskets, 
list  shoes,  umbrella  frames,  spinning  thread,  hassocks, 
wire  work,  knitting,  and  bookbinding,  which  last- 
named  employment,  we  imagine,  applies  to  the  binding 
of  embossed  books. 

The  expenses  of  the  male  asylum,  and  of  that  for 
females,  established  in  1829,  amounted  in  1855  to  about 
£2000,'  which  was  met  by  voluntary  contributions, 
and  by  payments  on  account  of  inmates.  This 
says  much  for  the  kindness  of  heart  of  the  Viennese, 
and  a  little  more  attention  to  practical  utility  will 
enable  them  to  add  to  the  happiness  of  the  blind,  and 
to  extend  still  further  their  sphere  of  usefulness. 

SWITZERLAND. 

Although  there  are  no  official  returns  of  the  number 
of  blind  persons  in  the  Helvetian  Republic,  yet  the 
census  taken  of  Zurich  in  1825  affords  some  idea  of 
the  state  of  the  case.  It  is  true,  indeed,  that  the 
statistics  were  only  taken  in  one  canton,  and  that  they 
were  made  as  far  back  as  forty-six  years ;  but  for 
want  of  more  ample  matter,  we  are  obliged  to  accept 
this  slender  information  as  our  guide.  In  the  canton 
of  Zurich  it  was  found  in  the  above-named  year  that 
the  ratio  of  the  blind  to  the  general  population  was 
1  in  1401,  and  accepting  this  as  a  general  rule  for 
the  whole  country  at  the  present  time,  and  taking  the 
population  at  2,510,494,  we  find  that  there  are  about 
1780  persons  without  sight  in  the  22  cantons  which 
form  the  republic  of  Switzerland. 

The  first  institution  for  the  education  of  the  blind 


392  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

established  in  Switzerland  was  commenced  at  Zurich 
in  1809,  and  schools  for  the  same  object  have  since 
been  founded  at  Berne,  Schaffhausen,  Freiberg,  and 
Lausanne.  At  the  four  first-named  institutions,  we 
believe,  the  common  Roman  type  is  chiefly  employed 
for  reading;  but  at  Lausanne,  Braille's  system  is 
dominant.  Music  is  cultivated  in  all  the  Swiss  insti- 
tutions, and  the  principal  industrial  feature  is  the 
prominence  given  to  the  art  of  turning.  It  is,  how- 
ever, cultivated  more  as  a  fancy  employment  than  as  a 
means  of  livelihood. 

At  Berne,  blind  teachers  are  engaged,  and  at  Lau- 
sanne, in  1855,  workshops  were  opened  for  the  adult 
blind,  at  the  suggestion  of  M.  Hirzell,  the  director  of 
the  school  of  that  town,  the  funds  being  supplied  by 
M.  Haldinard  and  Madame  de  Polier,  who  gave  con- 
jointly the  sum  of  £4000  for  the  purpose  of  erecting 
suitable  buildings  and  for  endowing  the  undertaking. 
The  workshops  were  placed  in  connection  with  the 
educational  establishment  and  the  Ophthalmic  Hos- 
pital, and  the  munificent  donors  were  publicly  thanked 
for  their  liberality  by  the  authorities  of  the  canton  of 
Yaud,  of  which  Lausanne  is  the  capital.  In  this  enter- 
prise no  provision  was  made  for  giving  work  to  the 
blind  at  their  own  homes.  In  some  cases  the  persons 
employed  are  boarded,  lodged,  and  clothed  at  the 
establishment ;  in  others  they  simply  work  there,  and 
live  in  the  town.  As  far  as  the  funds  permit,  pen- 
sions are  granted  to  the  infirm  and  aged,  and  after 
death  their  funeral  expenses  are  paid.  There  are  no 
workshops  for  females,  but  a  special  fund  has  been 
raised  by  subscription  for  the  purpose  of  affording 
them  pecuniary  aid  on  their  leaving  the  school.  The 
five  educational  establishments  for  the  blind  of  Switzer- 
land are  principally  maintained  by  grants  from  the 
local  governing  bodies  of  the  cantons,  or  cities ;  but 
private  beneficence  is  of  great  service  in  supplement- 
ing public  grants. 


THE    BLIND   Oi1   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  393 

There  is  at  Lausanne  a  very  interesting  case  of  a 
young  man  named  Edward  Meistre,  who  is  totally 
deaf,  dumb,  and  blind.  He  has  been  in  the  institu- 
tion for  several  years,  and  has  become  a  successful 
manufacturer  of  turnery  goods.  It  does  not  appear, 
however,  that  much  progress  has  been  made  in  the 
development  of  his  mental  faculties,  and  he  evidently 
falls  far  short  of  the  degree  of  intelligence  attained  by 
Laura  Bridgeman,  of  Boston,  America,  who  labours 
under  the  same  triple  misfortune. 

HOLLAND. 

The  population  of  this  kingdom  was,  according  to 
a  recent  census,  3,308,969,  and  the  number  of  the 
blind  1990,  or  one  in  every  1663  of  the  inhabitants. 
It  is  claimed  by  the  people  of  Amsterdam  that  an  in- 
stitution for  the  education  of  the  blind  existed  in  that 
city  as  early  as  ]  779,  being  five  years  before  the  esta- 
blishment of  that  of  Paris ;  but,  however  this  may  be, 
a  school  was  commenced  at  Amsterdam  in  1808, 
which  still  exists,  and  if  an  earlier  one  was  founded, 
the  undertaking  was  subsequently  abandoned.  In 
addition  to  the  institution  at  Amsterdam,  there  are 
now  in  the  Netherlands,  schools  for  the  blind  at 
Groningen,  Rotterdam,  Utrecht,  and  the  Hague,  and 
we  believe  that  there  is  also  an  institution  at  one  of 
the  towns  of  North  or  Dutch  Brabant.  These  esta- 
blishments afford  instruction  to  about  two  hundred  and 
fifty  persons  of  both  sexes.  The  common  Roman  type 
is  employed  for  reading  to  some  extent,  but  at  Am- 
sterdam Braille's  system  is  also  used,  and  at  Rotter- 
dam, Moon's  characters  are  exclusively  employed. 
Music  is  taught  in  the  greater  number  of  the  institu- 
tions, and  the  trades  prevalent  are  those  of  basket- 
making,  bottoming  chairs  with  cane,  mat-making, 
rope-making,  netting  and  knitting.  At  the  institu- 
tion of  Amsterdam  there  are  seventy  inmates,  and 


394  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

great  attention  is  paid  to  the  cultivation  of  arithmetic 
and  geography,  the  maps  used  being  on  the  principle 
of  progressive  elevation,  similar  to  those  invented  by 
Herr  Zeune,  of  Berlin.  It  is  a  remarkable  feature  of 
the  Dutch  charitable  institutions  for  the  blind  that 
they  are  all,  if  we  mistake  not,  supported  .  entirely  by 
voluntary  subscriptions ;  and  in  this,  while  they  re- 
semble Great  Britain,  they  form  a  striking  contrast  to 
the  practice  ruling  in  other  European  countries. 

The  school  at  Amsterdam  was  founded,  and  is  now 
largely  maintained  by  a  body  of  Freemasons,  and  there 
is  also  in  the  same  city  an  asylum  or  workshop  for  the 
adult  blind,  which  was  opened  in  1843,  and  which  has 
produced  considerable  good;  but  no  attempt  has-been 
made  to  afford  employment  to  the  blind  at  their  own 
homes. 

BELGIUM. 

The  population  of  the  kingdom  of  Belgium  accord- 
ing to  a  recent  governmental  return  was  4,529,560, 
and  the  number  of  the  blind  3675,  or  one  in  every 
1233  of  the  population. 

It  is  remarkable  that  an  institution  for  the  relief  of 
the  blind  existed  in  Belgium  as  early  as  1305,  in 
which  year  an  asylum  was  formed  at  Bruges  for  the 
relief  of  persons  deprived  of  sight  by  Robert  de 
Bethune,  Count  of  Flanders,  in  gratitude  for  the 
courage  displayed  by  the  inhabitants  of  that  town, 
at  the  battle  of  Monsem-Pouelle,  fought  between  the 
Count  and  the  French  king,  Philip  the  Fair ;  and  al- 
though this  charitable  establishment  has  passed  away, 
the  place  of  worship  which  was  connected  with  it  still 
exists.  A  similar  house  of  charity  was  also  'opened  at 
Gand  about  the  year  1370,  by  Pierre  Yander  Leyen, 
but,  like  its  predecessor  at  Bruges,  it  has  disappeared. 

The  first  school  in  Belgium  for  the  education  of  the 
blind  was  commenced  at  Brussels  in  1833,  and  there 


THE   BLIND   OP    VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  395- 

are  now  similar  establishments  at  Bruges,  Antwerp,  i.e. 
Anvers,  Gand,  Liege,  Mons,  and  Namur.  At  Brussels 
and  Gand  there  are  two  institutions,  making  the'total 
number  of  schools  for  the  blind  in  Belgium  amount  to- 
nine,  but  in  general  each  institution  is  only  for  persons 
of  one  sex.  The  school  at  Bruges,  however,  is  an  ex- 
ception, as  both  boys  and  girls  are  admitted.  There 
is  also  at  Brussels  a  philanthropic  society  which  lodges, 
feeds,  and  clothes  the  poor  generally,  and  extends; 
similar  advantages  to  a  few  blind  children  and  adults. 

The  educational  institutions  of  Belgium  contain 
about  two  hundred  inmates  and  are  usually  managed 
by  religious  communities,  a  certain  number  of  monks 
taking  charge  of  the  male  establishments,  and  the  nuns 
superintending  those  for  females.  This,  as  might  be 
expected,  gives  an  air  of  monasticism  to  the  schools, 
unlike  anything  to  be  met  with  in  Protestant  coun- 
tries ;  the  education  of  the  poor  is  not,  however,  neg- 
lected, and  in  the  schools  for  the  blind,  it  seems  quite 
on  a  par  with  that  of  similar  institutions  in  other  lands. 
In  manufactures  the  Belgians  are  very  much  behind 
the  English  and  Germans,  but  they  are  about  on  an 
equality  with  the  French.  Music  is  taught  as  a 
means  of  livelihood,  and  a  few  years  ago,  the  organist 
of  the  Eoman  Catholic  cathedral  at  Antwerp  was  a 
blind  man. 

Braille's  system  of  reading  and  writing  is  in  use  in  all 
the  institutions  except  that  of  Bruges,  where  the  method 
invented  by  the  Abbe  Carton  is  adopted.  Pencil-writ- 
ing, as  introduced  by  Haiiy,  largely  prevails,  and  the 
Typhlograph,  invented  by  Mr.  Gall,  of  Edinburgh,  is 
in  use  at  Brussels,  while  at  Bruges,  black  writing  is 
effected  by  means  of  a  style  and  tracing-paper,  the  let- 
ters being  formed  in  the  square  holes  of  Carton's  em- 
bossing frame.  .The  common  figures  made  in  metal 
are  usually  employed  as  type  for  the  arithmetical  boards, 
but  at  Bruges  the  pentagonal  peg,  as  used  in  England, 
prevails.  The  maps  are  made  of  needlework,  but  at 


396  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

the  Brussels  school  for  boys,  they  produce  embossed 
paper  maps,  from  wires  and  pins  fastened  on  boards. 
At  Bruges  they  have  a  very  good  museum,  consisting 
of  stuffed  birds  and  other  objects,  but  it  does  not  in- 
clude inventions  specially  intended  for  the  use  of  the 
blind,  which  is  an  omission  to  be  regretted. 

The  industrial  arts  carried  on  are, — basket-making, 
bottoming  chairs  with  rush  and  cane,  and  knitting. 
In  some  places  also  sash-line-making  according  to  the 
old  English  plan  is  used,  and  at  Bruges,  bead  rosaries 
are  made  for  the  use  of  Roman  Catholics  at  their 
devotions. 

When  the  author  visited  Belgium  in  1865,  he  re- 
ceived the  greatest  courtesy  from  the  Sisters  and 
Brothers  in  charge  of  the  various  institutions  for  the 
blind,  and  he  gladly  avails  himself  of  this  opportunity 
publicly  to  return  his  thanks  for  their  uniform  kind- 
ness and  attention. 

The  deaf  and  dumb,  and  the  blind  are  invariably 
educated  in  the  same  establishments  in  Belgium, 
the  institutions  are  chiefly  supported  by  State  grants. 
In  some  instances  the  various  communes  contribute  to 
the  maintenance  of  their  own  blind,  and  the  friends 
and  relatives  of  pupils  frequently  aid  in  the  same 
direction.  It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  the  Bel- 
gians have  not  introduced  any  organization  for  afford- 
ing regular  employment  to  the  blind,  and  especially 
so  as  they  enjoy  peculiar  facilities  for  carrying  out 
such  an  undertaking.  The  agricultural  employments 
of  the  people  render  a  constant  supply  of  baskets  indis- 
pensable, and  osiers  are  very  cheap.  Coal  mining  also 
creates  a  demand  in  the  same  direction ;  and  we  be- 
lieve that  the  blind  might  be  very  largely  employed 
in  making  the  sabots,  or  wooden  shoes,  so  commonly 
used  by  the  working  classes  of  that  Belgium  and  other 
continental  countries. 

The  institution  at  Bruges  was  founded  and  for 
many  years  superintended  by  the  eminent  Abbe  Car- 


THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  897 

ton,  who    died    in    1863.     The  following  account  of 
this  event  we  copy  from  the  journals  of  the  day : — 

"  The  late  celebrated  Abbe  Carton,  a  Knight  of 
Leopold,  has  just  died  at  Bruges,  after  a  short  illness, 
in  the  asylum  for  the  deaf,  dumb,  and  blind,  of  which 
he  was  the  founder  and  director.  He  was  born  in 
1802  at  Pitthem,  in  West  Flanders,  and  after  taking 
priest's  orders,  concentrated  all  his  energies  in  pro- 
viding for  the  deaf,  dumb,  and  blind  children,  whose 
pitiable  state  had,  from  his  early  years,  attracted  his 
sympathies.  Encouraged  by  the  support  and  patron- 
age of  the  late  Mgr.  Bousseu,  Bishop  of  Bruges,  he 
founded  the  sisterhood  of  the  Children  of  Mary,  a  com- 
munity which  has  been  most  successful  in  educating 
the  children  labouring  under  the  above  afflictions. 

"  The  most  interesting  of  all  the  lions  of  Bruges, 
'  that  quaint  old  Flemish  city/  as  Longfellow  calls  it, 
was  the  acting  by  the  deaf  and  dumb  children  of  the 
Litany  of  Loretto,  while  the  blind  boys  sang  it.  For 
the  last  twenty  years  the  Abbe  Carton  has  been 
the  universally  beloved  and  venerated  director  of  this 
institution. 

"  He  was  a  man  of  great  ability,  and,  in  spite  of  his 
arduous  duties,  found  time  to  write  several  works  of 
scientific  and  literary  merit.  After  being  exposed, 
clothed  in  his  sacerdotal  vestments,  in  a  room  of  the 
asylum  for  two  days,  and  being  visited  by  a  concourse 
of  people,  the  body  of  Abbe  Carton  was  taken  to  St. 
Saviour's  cathedral  for  the  last  funeral  rites,  accom- 
panied by  the  canons  of  Bruges  and  a  regiment  of 
infantry,  the  deceased  being  one  of  the  Knights  of 
the  Order  of  Leopold.  Mass  having  been  said,  the 
body  was  interred  in  the  cemetery  in  presence  of  an 
immense  number  of  persons,  and  a  military  salute  was 
fired  over  the  grave.  The  Abbe  Carton  was  a  canon 
of  Bruges,  and  also  of  the  metropolitan  chapter  of 
Paris,  a  member  of  the  Eoyal  Academy  of  Brussels, 
and  of  manv  other  learned  societies." 


398  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 


FKANCE. 

Some  writers  have  placed  the  number  of  the  blind 
in  France  at  50,000.  But  this  is  evidently  an  over- 
estimate, as  we  find  from  a  recent  return  made  to  the 
government  that  the  ratio  which  the  number  of  the 
blind  bears  to  the  general  population  is  1  in  938; 
and  as  the  present  population  of  France  does  not 
•exceed  38,000,000,  the  number  of  persons  deprived  of 
sight  would  appear  to  be  about  42,000. 

To  the  French  nation  pre-eminently  belongs  the 
•credit  of  caring  for  the  blind ;  and  although  a  com- 
parison of  what  is  at  present  done  for  this  class  of 
persons  in  France  with  the  organizations  existing  for 
the  same  object  in  England,  America,  and  Germany, 
would  tend  very  much  to  lessen  the  claim  of  the 
French  to  that  proud  distinction, — yet,  when  it  is  con- 
sidered that  more  than  six  hundred  years  ago  an 
asylum,  which  still  exists,  was  founded  at  Paris  for 
three  hundred  blind  persons,  and  that  the  first  move- 
ment for  the  education  of  the  sightless  was  also  in- 
augurated in  the  same  city,  the  French  must  be  ad- 
mitted to  be,  par  excellence,  the  friends  of  the  blind. 
The  first  institution  in  France  for  the  education  of  the 
blind  was  commenced  on  a  small  scale  in  1771,  and 
permanently  founded  in  1784,  at  Paris,  soon  after 
which  it  received  the  patronage  of  the  unfortunate 
Louis  the  Sixteenth.  At  first  the  establishment  was 
supported  by  the  voluntary  contributions  of  the  be- 
nevolent ;  but  as  the  novelty  of  the  undertaking  wore 
off,  necessity  obliged  its  managers  to  seek  govern- 
mental aid,  which  was  very  sparingly  granted ;  the 
institution,  however,  successfully  passed  through  all 
the  stormy  incidents  connected  with  the  French  Revo- 
lution; and  although  the  pupils  were  removed  from 
place  to  place,  the  enterprise  was  never  entirely  aban- 
doned. 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  399 

At  one  time  the  juvenile  pupils  were  sent  to  the 
Quinze-Vingts  (the  Asylum  for  Adults),  and  mixed  with 
the  old  pensioners  of  that  establishment,  and  at  an- 
other they  were  compelled  to  share  the  domicile  of  the 
•deaf  and  dumb  children,  but  amid  all  these  changes 
^Institution  des  Jeunes  Aveugles  still  survived ;  and 
although  it  had  many  enemies,  no  hand  was  found 
ruthless  enough  to  extinguish  so  good  a  work.  These 
changes,  however,  produced  one  great  evil,  which  was 
almost  irreparable,  for  the  benevolent  and  talented 
Haiiy,  at  length  worn  out  with  anxiety,  and  disgusted 
with  the  treatment  he  had  experienced  from  the  various 
politicians  who  had  guided  the  destinies  of  France, 
left  his  native  country  in  1806,  and  placed  his  services 
at  the  disposal  of  the  Russians.  But  this  event, 
although  injurious  for  a  time  to  the  blind  of  France, 
proved  of  signal  benefit  to  those  of  Russia  and  Ger- 
many, and  afforded  another  instance  of  how  the  calami- 
ties of  some  persons  produce  blessings  to  others. 

At  the  Restoration  of  the  Bourbons,  in  1814,  the  Paris 
Blind  School  was  remodelled,  had  suitable  premises 
assigned  to  it,  and  Dr.  Guillie  was  placed  at  its  head. 
Under  its  new  management  the  institution  made  con- 
siderable progress ;  but  from  some  cause,  which  we 
are  at  a  loss  to  understand,  every  effort  was  made  to 
ignore  the  fact  that  it  had  been  founded  by  Valentine 
Haiiy,  and  it  is  even  said  that  on  his  return  to  France, 
in  1817,  and  desiring  to  visit  the  establishment,  per- 
mission was  peremptorily  denied  him,  and  that  he  was 
turned  from  the  door.  However  this  may  be,  the 
book  written  on  the  blind  by  Dr.  Guillie  is  most  unjust 
to  Haiiy,  and  it  affords  primd  facie  evidence  in  favour 
of  the  statement  above  named  ;  it  is,  however,  gratify- 
ing to  be  able  to  record  that  on  the  retirement  of  Dr. 
Guillie,  in  1821,  Haiiy,  a  short  time  before  his  death, 
was  specially  invited  to  the  institution,  and  a  concert 
given  in  his  honour,  and  also  that  a  few  years  ago  his 
statue  was  placed  in  the  institution,  and  inaugurated 
with  every  demonstration  of  respect. 


400  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

The  writer  visited  the  Paris  institution  in  1865,  and 
found  as  follows  : — 

Braille's  System  of  Beading  is  exclusively  used,  the 
books  being  printed  from  type  cast  on  flat  pieces  of 
metal,  fastened  upon  thin  pegs,  which  are  placed  in 
lines  in  a  frame  somewhat  like  a  gridiron,  after  having 
been  arranged  in  a  composing-stick  of  a  very  ingenious 
construction.  This  mode  of  setting  up  type  prevents 
the  matter  being  easily  overturned;  but  it  inter- 
feres greatly  with  speed  in  composition  and  distribu- 
tion. The  press  employed  is  of  the  kind  generally 
used  by  lithographic  printers,  and  the  galley  in  which 
the  type  is  arranged  seems  to  remain  on  the  press 
during  the  time  that  the  impressions  are  being  taken. 
The  blind  are  employed  to  work  the  press,  and  to 
arrange  the  type,  sighted  boys  being  engaged  to  read 
to  them.  The  inmates  of  the  institution  bind  their  own 
books,  but  it  is  not  considered  a  profitable  occupation. 
It  is  a  very  singular  circumstance  that  the  pupils  are 
not  taught  to  write  in  any  way  that  can  be  read  by  the 
sighted ;  and  although  there  are  at  the  institution  many 
inventions  for  the  purpose,  yet  they  are  placed  in  the 
room  devoted  to  the  museum,  and  (as  one  of  the 
officials  expressed  it)  are  kept  as  curiosities ;  so  that 
here  we  have  the  picture  of  some  two  hundred  blind 
persons  shut  up  in  a  building,  and  longing  to  com- 
municate with  their  distant  parents  and  friends,  but 
unable  to  do  so,  although  inventions  for  the  purpose 
exist  in  great  variety  in  an  adjoining  room.  The 
museum  seems  to  exist  more  for  the  inspection  of 
sighted  visitors  than  for  the  benefit  of  the  blind,  and 
although  it  contains  a  few  specimens  of  stuffed  birds, 
it  does  not  appear  that  they  are  used  for  educational 
purposes.  The  common  figures  are  employed  for 
arithmetic,  but  no  boxes  are  used  to  contain  the  sur- 
plus type,  which  makes  the  use  of  the  arithmetical 
board  a  very  tedious  operation. 

The  maps  are  made  by  wire  being  fastened  upon  a 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  401 

board,  and  covered  with  a  map  in  common  black  print. 
They  have  also  embossed  maps  fastened  upon  boards, 
but  both  kinds  are  of  the  most  meagre  description. 

The  cultivation  of  music  is  carried  to  great  perfec- 
tion, and  instruction  of  a  very  high  order  is  given  on 
the  organ  and  the  pianoforte,  and  also  in  the  art  of 
pianoforte  tuning,  and  in  the  use  of  various  stringed 
and  wind  instruments.  It  is  said  that  there  are  in 
France  no  fewer  than  two  hundred  blind  organists 
holding  situations,  and  as,  for  the  most  part,  the 
services  performed  are  those  of  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church,  the  testimony  in  favour  of  musicians  without 
sight  is  proportionately  strong.  It  is  much  to  the 
credit  of  the  officials  connected  with  the  Paris  institu- 
tion that  they  should  have  founded  a  society  for  the 
furtherance  of  the  interests  of  the  pupils  who  have 
learnt  music,  and  we  are  glad  to  be  able  to  state  that 
this  society  still  exists,  and  that  although  it  is  entirely 
supported  by  voluntary  contributions,  yet  it  is  the 
means  of  accomplishing  much  good. 

The  mode  of  musical  notation  employed  at  the  insti- 
tution is  that  devised  by  M.  Braille.  Several  volumes 
and  many  pieces  of  music  have  been  printed,  and 
copies  are  also  made  by  hand  with  the  embossing 
frame.  A  knowledge  of  the  ordinary  musical  nota- 
tion, as  used  by  the  sighted,  is  given  to  the  pupils  by 
means  of  a  large  board,  on  which  the  stave  and  musical 
signs  are  placed. 

Instruction  in  the  art  of  tuning  the  pianforte  is 
cai'ried  to  great  perfection,  and  is  found  very  useful 
by  many  persons  on  returning  to  their  homes. 

The  string  band  of  the  institution  is  of  the  most 
excellent  kind ;  but  as  a  means  of  livelihood  its  utility 
is  very  small. 

The  manufactures-  carried  on  are  exceedingly  few, 
and  they  are  far  from  flourishing.  Some  ornamental 
turnery-goods  are  made,  and  it  is  said  that  clever  work- 
men have  been  known  to  earn  five  francs  a  day  ;  but 

2  D 


402  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

when    they  leave    the  institution '  they  cannot    get 
work. 

Bottoming  chairs  with  cane  and  rush  is  also  prac- 
tised, the  rushes  being  covered  with  a  particular  kind 
of  straw  which  is  twisted  round  them,  and  adds  much 
to  the  appearance  of  the  work.  A  portion  of  the 
trade  of  brush-making  is  also  carried  on,  but  it  only 
consists  in  the  fastening  of  tufts  of  wisk  into  holes 
with  string,  the  holes  being  bored  and  the  backs  of 
the  brushes  put  on  by  sighted  men  out-of-doors.  The 
younger  boys  are  employed  at  netting,  and  the  only 
industrial  art  practised  by  the  girls  is  that  of  knitting. 
The  mode  of  conducting  the  manufacturing  depart- 
ment is  somewhat  novel;  the  managers  of  the  insti- 
tution agree  with  a  sighted  tradesman  (say  a  brush- 
maker),  carrying  on  business  in  the  city  to  give  in- 
struction to  a  certain  number  of  blind  persons  at  the 
institution,  he  undertaking  to  find  materials  and  to 
receive  the  work  done  without  making  any  payment  to 
the  institution,  and  the  managers  agreeing  on  their 
part  to  pay  him  1800  francs  or  £72  per  annum.  It  is 
in  this  way  that  all  the  industrial  teachers  are  paid, 
and  if  they  really  instructed  the  blind  and  made  them 
skilful  workmen  it  would  be  a  cheap  mode  of  accomplish- 
ing a  great  end ;  but  as  a  matter  of  fact  they  do  not 
teach  trades  to  the  blind  at  all,  and  from  the  circum- 
stances of  their  position  it  is  next  to  impossible  that 
they  should  do  so.  In  learning  a  trade  the  pupils  re- 
quire to  proceed  step  by  step  from  one  process  to  an- 
other, never  continuing  to  do  the  same  branch  longer 
than  is  necessary  to  make  them  thoroughly  acquainted 
with  it,  whereas,  according  to  the  French  mode,  it  is 
the  interest  of  the  teacher  to  keep  his  pupils  at  the 
branch  which  produces  most  pecuniary  profit  to  him- 
self. We  know  it  may  be  said  that  in  such  a  case  the- 
managers  of  the  institution  would  interfere,  but  how 
easily  would  such  interference  be  met  by  the  teacher's 
declaration  that  blindness  prevented  the  pupils  effect- 


•   THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  403 

ing  anything  more  than  what  they  were  then  doing  ! 
and  accordingly  it  is  no  matter  of  surprise  that  under 
the  foregoing  system,  the  French  industrial  depart- 
ments are  in  a  most  unsatisfactory  condition,  and  that, 
after  having  been  eight  years  under  instruction,  the 
majority  of  the  blind  pupils  leave  the  great  Paris  in- 
stitution and  enter  the  wide  world  helpless  and  hope- 
less. 

The  number  of  inmates  of  the  Paris  school,  of  both 
sexes,  is  about  200,  and  they  are  admitted  between 
the  ages  of  twelve  and  fourteen.  The  institution  is 
supported  entirely  by  the  State  and  is  the  only  esta- 
blishment of  the  kind  in  France  that  receives  such  aid  ; 
there  are,  however,  some  small  schools  which  are  main- 
tained by  religious  houses,  voluntary  contributions, 
and  payments  by  the  friends  of  pupils.  Generally,  in " 
these  establishments  only  persons  of  one  sex  are  ad- 
mitted, and  the  premises  usually  adjoin  those  de- 
voted to  the  education  of  the  deaf  and  dumb,  which 
latter  class  of  unfortunates  mingle  freely  with  the 
blind  pupils.  "We  believe  that  there  are  institutions 
at  the  following  places  : — Lisle  two  institutions,  Lyons, 
Marseilles,  Montpellier  (supported  by  Protestants), 
Nancy,  Soissons,  Poictiers,  St.  Hippolyte  du  Fort 
(supported  by  Protestants),  also  two  small  schools  at 
Paris,  founded  by  M.  Eatier,  the  one  for  boys  and  the 
other  for  girls.  All  these  eleven  establishments  are 
very  small,  and  it  is  probable  that  collectively  they  do 
not  afford  aid  to  more  than  200  persons. 

Braille' s  system  of  reading  and  writing  seems  ge- 
nerally adopted,  and  music  is  cultivated  more  as  an 
amusement  than  as  a  prospective  means  of  liveli- 
hood. 

The  industrial  employments  of  basket-making,  chair 
bottoming  with  cane  and  rushes,  knitting,  and  the 
making  of  list  shoes,  are  generally  adopted,  and  at 
Nancy  the  art  of  turning  is  carried  on  to  a  considerable 
extent,  and  it  may  also  be  mentioned  that  at  this  in- 

2  D 


404  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND.. 

stitution  they  have  a  blind  teacher  of  music  who  was 
educated  at  Paris. 

An  attempt  was  made  some  years  since  by  M.  Dufau, 
the  present  director  of  the  large  educational  esta- 
blishment at  Paris,  to  found  workshops  for  the  em- 
ployment of  the  blind ;  but  the  undertaking  was  very 
short-lived,  and  produced  no  lasting  result. 

The  comparative  fewness  of  the  institutions  for  the 
blind  in  France  as  compared  with  England,  and  the 
absence  of  a  poor-law,  makes  the  practice  of  men- 
dicity exceedingly  frequent.  In  general,  throughout 
the  country  the  claim  of  the  blind  to  solict  alms  is 
tacitly  allowed,  and  such  mendicants  are  seldom  or 
never  interfered  with  by  the  authorities ;  usually  they 
play  some  musical  instrument,  frequently  a  barrel- 
organ,  and  they  often  beg  in  companies  of  three  or 
four.  The  blind  of  France  seem  to  have  no  idea  of 
walking  alone,  for  even  mendicants  have  guides ;  and 
although  the  writer  travelled  several  hundred  miles 
through  the  country,  including  short  stoppages  of  two 
or  three  days  at  eight  different  towns,  he  never  found 
a  blind  person  without  a  guide ;  and  when  he  told  some 
the  inmates  of  the  Paris  institutions  that  many  of 
the  English  blind  travelled  without  guides,  they  were 
utterly  astonished. 

At  the  commencement  of  this  article  reference  was 
made  to  the  establishment  of  an  asylum  for  the  blind, 
by  St.  Louis,  as  early  as  the  year  1260.  This  insti- 
tution is  still  situated  at  Paris,  and  as  its  name  imports 
(the  Quinze-Vingts),  it  is  intended  for  the  reception  of 
300  persons.  Both  men  and  women  are  admitted, 
and  each  pensioner  is  allowed  a  room,  and  a  franc  and 
a  half  a  day.  They  may  also  have  their  families  to  live 
with  them. 

The  pensioners  may  live  out  of  the  establishment  if 
they  wish,  but  in  such  cases  the  grant  of  a  franc  and  a 
half  a  day  is  reduced,  but  even  in  spite  of  this  hard- 
ship many  avail  themselves  of  the  permission,  and 


THE    BLIND   OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  405 

nearly  all  would  be  content  to  give  up  the  room,  if  it 
did  not  involve  the  reduction  of  the  pension. 

What  can  induce  the  French  Government  to  act  in 
so  paltry  a  manner  with  their  poor  sightless  ones  we 
are  at  a  loss  to  understand.  If  they  wished  to  give 
them  .the  privilege  of  choosing  their  own  domicile,  why 
should  they  connect  with  it  the  penalty  of  loss  of  in- 
come ? 

Some  of  the  inmates  of  the  asylum  make  nets  for 
their  own  benefit  when  they  can  get  such  employment, 
and  one  of  the  workers,  a  very  intelligent  and  straight- 
forward middle-aged  man,  assured  the  writer  that  he 
would  rather  live  on  a  smaller  sum  and  earn  it  him- 
self than  continue  to  be  an  idle  pensioner,  and  that  he 
would  go  anywhere  and  do  anything  to  obtain  con- 
stant employment. 

This  man,  like  all  those  whom  the  writer  saw  on 
the  Continent,  was  enraptured  at  the  English  plan  of 
giving  work  to  the  blind  at  their  own  homes,  and  ex- 
pressed a  strong  desire  to  see  the  day  when  the  prac- 
tice should  be  adopted  in  his  own  country. 

About  sixty-six  years  ago  a  painfully-interesting 
episode  took  place  in  connection  with  the  history  of 
the  Quinze-Vingts,  an  account  of  which  it  is  thought 
well  to  insert  here. 

Among  the  inmates  of  the  Quinze-Vingts,  in  Febru- 
ary, 1805,  was  a  person  named  Berenger,  whom  all 
Paris  knew  under  the  cognomen  of  the  ' '  lucky  blind 
man."  His  habit  was  to  traverse  the  public  streets, 
drawing  a  small  carriage  on  which  he  mounted  at  con- 
venient places  and  undertook  for  a  small  consideration 
to  tell  the  fortune  of  the  casual  passers-by.  With 
such  success  did  Berenger  pursue  this  avocation  that 
the  director  of  the  public  lotteries,  wishing  to  avail 
himself  of  his  tact  and  popularity,  induced  him  to  sell 
lottery  tickets  on  commission,  and  in  a  few  years  the 
blind  fortune-teller  found  himself  possessed  of  consi- 
derable wealth.  He  still,  however,  continued  to  reside 


406  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

in  the  Quinze-Vingts,  and  having  a  mind  to  settle  in 
life,  he  became  passionately  enamoured  of  a  young 
girl  named  Louise,  a  relative  of  one  of  the  inmates  of 
the  same  institution;  his  attachment,  however,  was 
not  reciprocated  by  the  damsel,  and  Berenger,  being 
maddened  by  the  knowledge  that  she  favoured  the 
advances  of  a  young  man  named  Pinson,  the  nephew 
of  another  inmate,  determined  to  reap  a  most  dire 
revenge.  It  was  at  the  time  of  the  carnival,  and  on 
the  evening  of  the  day  known  to  the  French  as  Lundi- 
Gras,  that  the  aunt  of  Pinson  was  entertaining  a  small 
party  in  her  chamber  at  the  Quinze-Vingts.  The  com- 
pany consisted  of  several  inmates  of  the  institution, 
including  Berenger.  Pinson  and  Louise  were  also 
there,  and  appear  to  have  been  the  only  persons  who 
could  see.  The  conversation  proceeded  merrily  until 
Louise,  on  rising  to  replenish  the  fire,  took  up  a  log  of 
wood,  which,  on  account  of  its  extraordinary  weight, 
fell  to  the  ground,  and,  to  the  surprise  of  every  one, 
broke  in  the  centre,  scattering  over  the  room  quan- 
tities of  gunpowder,  shot,  and  pieces  of  old  iron.  The 
consternation  can  easily  be  imagined.  How  came  the 
gunpowder  there,  and  what  would  have  happened  if 
the  log  of  wood  had  been  put  upon  the  fire?  were  ques- 
tions in  every  one's  mouth.  The  news  flew  with  light- 
ning-speed and  soon  reached  the  ears  of  the  director 
of  the  establishment,  who  forthwith  put  the  matter  in 
the  hands  of  the  police,  who  soon  discovered  that  Be- 
renger had  obtained  a  piece  of  hollow  wood  from  a 
carpenter  of  the  city,  and  also  that  the  screws  of  his 
little  carriage  were  found  among  the  pieces  of  iron 
mixed  with  the  gunpowder.  On  these  grounds  Be- 
renger was  arrested  and  brought  to  trial  on  the  charge 
of  attempting  to  destroy  the  lives  of  several  persons. 
Great  interest  was  manifested  in  the  case,  and  many 
would  have  gladly  saved  the  culprit  but  the  circum- 
stances of  the  times  were  against  him,  for  since  the 
discovery  of  the  infernal  machine  intended  to  destroy 


THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  407 

Napoleon,  the  greatest  indignation  had  been  felt 
against  those  who  attempted  assassination  by  explo- 
sive contrivances.  At  the  trial  Berenger  simply  de- 
nied everything;  bat  circumstances,  and  the  evidence 
of  the  carpenter,  Pinson,  and  Louise  were  so  strongly 
against  him  that  notwithstanding  the  good  character 
given  him  by  many  of  his  blind  friends,  who  stated, 
among  other  things,  how  he  had  spent  his  money  to 
relieve  their  necessities,  he  was  condemned  to  death. 
On  hearing  the  sentence,  Berenger  rent  the  air  with 
piercing  cries  and  was  with  difficulty  removed.  The 
criminal,  although  without  relatives  who  could  render 
him  assistance,  found  an  active  and  influential  friend 
in  the  treasurer  of  the  Quinze-Vingts,  who  exerted 
himself  to  obtain  the  imperial  pardon.  An  extraor- 
dinary fatality,  however,  seemed  to  hang  over  the  re- 
puted lucky  blind  man;  his  good  fortune  had  evidently 
forsaken  him,  and  justice  would  be  vindicated.  Na- 
poleon was  at  that  time  in  Italy,  and  nothing  could  be 
idone  without  his  approval.  The  ministry,  neverthe- 
less, granted  a  respite  of  fifteen  days  and  forwarded 
urgent  dispatches  to  the  emperor  on  the  subject,  but 
by  some  inexplicable  contretemps  the  papers  never 
reached  him,  but  were  returned  to  Paris  two  months 
after  unopened ;  at  the  end,  therefore,  of  the  respite  of 
fifteen  days  the  execution  was  ordered  to  take  place. 
Berenger,  who  had  passed  the  whole  time  of  his  im- 
prisonment a  prey  to  torturing  imaginations,  on  learn- 
ing that  his  hour  had  come,  abandoned  himself  to  the 
most  abject  despair;  at  times  the  administrations  of 
the  excellent  priest  who  attended  him  seemed  to  pro- 
duce a  good  effect,  but  he  soon  relapsed,  and  he  had 
actually  to  be  forced  to  mount  the  scaffold,  and  to  be 
physically  restrained  while  the  executioner  performed 
his  office.  The  spectacle  of  thus  viewing  a  blind  man 
dragged  to  the  guillotine  filled  the  crowd  with  horror, 
and  they  drew  back  from  the  sight  evincing  every 
sign  of  grief  and  loathing.  We  may  add  that  this 


408  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

appears  to  be  the  only  case  on  record  in  which  a  blind 
man  has  suffered  or  deserved  the  extreme  penalty  of 
the  law;  and  it  certainly  ought  to  teach  those  who 
have  the  least  faith  in  fortune-telling  that  luck  is  a 
very  flimsy  thing,  and  that  the  most  fortunate  have 
often  found  themselves  at  the  other  end  of  the  role 
just  when  they  fancied  they  had  reached  the  height  of 
success. 

SPAIN. 

It  is  matter  of  regret  that  no  regular  returns  exist 
of  the  number  of  the  blind  in  the  above  country ;  it  is, 
however,  probable  that  the  proportion  which  the  sight- 
less bear  to  the  general  population  is  about  one  in 
every  eight  hundred,  and  as  according  to  a  recent 
census  the  inhabitants  of  the  whole  country  are  stated 
to  be  about  16,000,000,  the  number  of  the  blind  in 
Spain  may  be  taken  at  about  20,000. 

The  first  institution  for  the  education  of  the  blind 
in  the  Peninsula  was  commenced  at  Barcelona  in  1820, 
but  it  seems  never  to  have  advanced  beyond  the  posi- 
tion of  a  day  school,  and  its  present  state  is  far  from 
prosperous. 

In  1834,  M.  Balestros  (the  director  of  the  Institu- 
tion for  the  Deaf  and  Dumb  at  Madrid)  being  struck 
with  the  extreme  wretchedness  of  the  blind  of  his 
native  country,  and  resolving  to  do  something  to  re- 
medy it,  exerted  himself  to  secure  influential  patron- 
age, and  succeeded  in  obtaining  a  petition  to  the 
Government  signed  by  various  members  of  the  Eco- 
nomical Society  of  Madrid,  to  which  he  received  a 
reply  in  1836,  wherein  the  Spanish  Ministry  of  that 
day  expressed  their  approval  of  his  design  of  teaching 
trades  to  the  blind,  but  objected  to  persons  without 
sight  being  taught  to  read,  on  the  ground  that  it  was 
an  unnecessary  luxury,  which  those  who  could  afford 
might  obtain  more  cheaply  by  paying  the  sighted  to 


THE    BLIND   OP   VAEIOUS    COUNTRIES.  409 

read  to  them  than  by  having  books  specially  printed 
for  their  own  use.  But  although  the  teaching  of  trades 
was  approved,  and  a  sum  of  26,000  livres  (about 
£1000)  voted  for  the  establishment  of  an  institution, 
nothing  was  commenced  until  1841,  when  the  inde- 
fatigable M.  Balestros  succeeded  in  obtaining  an  au- 
dience with  Queen  Isabella  and  her  sister,  and  exhi- 
biting the  acquirements  of  a  young  blind  girl  named 
Isabella  de  Diego  Alvarez,  whom  he  had  instructed  in 
reading,  writing,  geography,  and  music.  This  exami- 
nation lasted  three  hours,  and  at  its  close,  on  the  blind 
pupil  kissing  the  Queen's  hand,  she  took  the  oppor- 
tunity to  implore  her  royal  favour  for  the  blind  of 
Spain.  In  consequence  of  the  interest  excited  in  her 
Majesty  by  the  above  examination,  an  institution  for 
the  blind  was  soon  opened  at  Madrid,  at  the  head  of 
which  was  placed  M.  Balestros,  who,  that  he  might 
be  thoroughly  fitted  for  his  work,  was  sent,  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  Government,  to  visit  the  institutions  of 
France  and  Germany.  The  two  schools  for  the  blind 
of  Spain,  such  as  they  are,  depend  for  their  support 
on  national  grants  and  the  donations  of  communes, 
and  they  extend  scanty  assistance  to  about  one  hun- 
dred and  fifty  persons.  Braille's  system  is  employed 
for  reading  and  writing,  and  for  musical  notation,  but 
two  or  three  rival  Spanish  systems  have  appeared  and 
have  obtained  some  success.  The  British  and  Foreign 
Bible  Society  have  recently  published  the  Gospel 
according  to  St.  John,  in  Spanish,  price  three  shil- 
lings; the  characters  employed  being  those  of  W. 
Moon,  as  modified  by  the  Society.  Maps  made  in 
wood  and  paper  are  used  at  the  institutions  of  Madrid 
and  Barcelona,  but  they  seem  to  be  of  a  very  rudi- 
mentary character.  Considerable  attention  has  been 
paid  to  orchestral  music,  especially  at  Barcelona,  but 
as  a  means  of  livelihood  this  is  almost  worthless.  The 
only  industrial  arts  carried  on  are  basket-making, 
netting,  and  knitting,  and  these  to  a  very  small  ex- 


410  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

tent.  The  number  of  blind  mendicants  in  Spain  is 
very  great,  and  visitors  to  Madrid  state  that  the  streets 
of  that  city  swarm  with  them. 

POKTUGAL. 

Of  the  number  of  the  blind  in  this  kingdom  there 
are  no  authentic  returns;  there  are,  however,  good 
reasons  for  believing  that  the  ratio  is  about  one  in 
every  eight  hundred  of  the  inhabitants;  and  as  the 
population  of  the  country  is  about  3,600,000,  the  num- 
ber of  the  blind  cannot  be  less  than  4500,  and  for  the 
relief  of  their  sufferings  next  to  nothing  has  been 
done.  Some  years  ago  an  institution  was  commenced 
at  Lisbon,  but  whether  it  still  exists  we  have  been 
unable  to  ascertain.  If  the  conduct  of  Spain  towards 
those  deprived  of  sight  is  bad,  that  of  Portugal  is 
worse,  and  the  sooner  the  descendants  of  the  disco- 
verers of  the  Indies  learn  a  little  more  humanity  the 
better. 

THE  KINGDOM  OP  ITALY. 

The  above  nationality  has  been  so  recently  formed 
that  no  authentic  materials  exist  respecting  the  num- 
ber of  persons  without  sight.  Assuming,  however, 
that  the  population  of  the  kingdom  is  twenty-five 
millions,  and  that  the  proportion  of  the  blind  is  one 
in  eight  hundred,  we  arrive  at  the  conclusion  that  the 
number  of  persons  who  are  deprived  of  sight  is  thirty- 
one  thousand  two  hundred  and  fifty,  which  is  in  all 
probability  far  below  the  truth. 

It  is  a  very  remarkable  circumstance  that  the  first 
book  published  on  the  condition  of  the  blind  was 
written  by  an  Italian,  and  was  printed  in  Italian  and 
French,  in  1646.  A  free  translation  of  the  title  of  the 
work  is  as  follows  : — 


THE    BLIND    OP    VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  411 

A  Consolation  to  One  afflicted  with  Blindness,  being 
a  Letter  from  S.  D.  C.  to  Vincent  Armanni. 

As  a  literary  curiosity,  we  think  the  reader  will  ex- 
cuse our  giving  a  copy  of  the  title  of.  the  above  work 
in  the  original  Italian  and  French,  as  taken  from  the 
volume  now  in  our  possession,  namely  : — 

IL  CIECO 
APPLITTO 

E  CONSOLATO. 


L'AVEUGLE 

AFPLIGE 
ET  CONSOLE. 

A  PARIS, 
CHEZ  LA  VEUUE  IEAN  CAMVSAT 

ET 

PIERRE  LE  PETIT  RUE  SAINT  IACQUES; 
A  LA  TOYSON  D'OR. 

M.DC.XLVI. 

AUEC  PERMISSION. 

This  volume  consists  of  a  variety  of  consolations 
drawn  from  a  contemplation  of  religion  and  the  opera- 
tions of  Nature,  and  it  would  be  well  worth  translating 
into  English,  and  offering  to  the  public,  both  on  ac- 
count of  its  intrinsic  value  and  from  considerations  of 
its  antiquity.  The  present  writer  has  had  grave 
thoughts  of  undertaking  such  a  task,  but  has  been 
obliged  to  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  interest  of 
the  public  in  matters  connected  with  the  blind  is  not  at 
present  sufficient  to  warrant  his  incurring  the  expense. 

The  first  institution  for  the  assistance  of  the  blind 
in  Italy  was  established  at  Naples,  in  the  year  1818, 


412  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

but  whether  it  still  exists  is  very  doubtful.  There  is, 
however,  in  the  same  city,  a  School  for  Blind  Mendi- 
cant Children,  founded  about  1864  by  Don  L.  Rodino, 
at  the  the  Albergo  dei  Poveri  (which  contains  nearly 
five  thousand  paupers,  and  is  believed  to  be  the  largest 
workhouse  in  the  world) .  The  blind  and  the  deaf  and 
dumb  possess  the  exceptional  privilege  of  being  ad- 
mitted, even  though  they  may  not  have  been  born  at 
the  city  of  Naples. 

Within  the  last  twenty  years,  an  Educational  Insti- 
tution for  the  Blind  has  been  established  at  Milan, 
which  has  already  reached  a  considerable  degree  of 
excellence.  The  mode  of  reading  adopted  is  that  of 
the  embossed  Roman  type,  and  writing  is  practised 
both  with  the  pencil  and  by  means  of  an  apparatus 
which  produces  the  common  black  print ;  an  arith- 
metical board  is  also  employed.  Music  is  cultivated 
to  a  very  high  degree,  and  the  manufactures  are 
baskets,  articles  in  pasteboard,  and  knitted  goods. 

It  is  probable  that  the  total  number  of  persons  with- 
out sight  in  the  Italian  educational  institutions  does 
not  exceed  a  hundred  and  fifty,  but  the  data  on  which 
this  estimate  is  founded  are  very  slight.  At  various 
times  efforts  have  been  made  to  establish  schools  for 
the  blind  at  other  towns  than  those  above  named,  but 
these  attempts  seem  almost  entirely  to  have  failed, 
and  if  any  institutions  now  exist  at  such  places,  they 
are  on  a  very  small  scale.  The  names  of  the  cities  at 
which  such  attempts  have  been  made  are  Rome,  Bo- 
logna, Turin,  Padua,  and  Palermo,  and  it  is  greatly  to 
be  wished  that  the  present  enlightened  Italian  Govern- 
ment would  direct  special  attention  to  the  condition  of 
the  blind  of  the  kingdom,  so  that  permanent  Institu- 
tions for  their  welfare  might  be  established  at  the  fore- 
going places,  and  at  as  many  other  towns  as  might  be 
found  desirable. 

About  the  year  1870  a  donation  was  given  by  King 
Victor  Emmanuel  for  the  establishment  of  an  institu- 


THE    BLIND   OF   VAEIOUS    COUNTRIES.  413 

tion  for  the  blind  at  Florence,  and  it  is  therefore  be- 
lieved that  such  an  undertaking  is  now  in  operation  in 
that  city.  In  Sicily,  in  1839,  a  courageous  attempt 
was  made  to  establish  a  newspaper  in  relief  print ;  the 
periodical  was  entitled,  '  Consolation  for  the  Blind/ 
but  the  undertaking  met  with  very  little  patronage, 
and  was  in  consequence  soon  given  up. 

Mendicity  is  the  normal  state  of  existence  of  the 
blind  in  Italy,  even  to  a  greater  extent,  perhaps,  than 
in  any  other  country  of  Europe,  and  foreigners  remark 
that  sightless  beggars  form  a  striking  feature  of  the 
carnival  at  Venice ;  and  many  blind  persons  make  straw 
baskets,  and  little  ornaments  of  cherry-stones,  which 
they  offer  for  sale  in  the  streets. 

GREECE  AND  THE  IONIAN  ISLANDS. 

The  kingdom  of  Greece, -as  now  constituted,  contains 
a  population,  including  the  Ionian  Islands,  of  about 
one  million  and  a  half,  and  although  there  are  no  re- 
turns of  the  number  of  the  blind,  yet  there  is  good 
evidence  for  believing  that  the  ratio  is  not  less  than 
one  in  every  eight  hundred  of  the  inhabitants,  and  it 
is  therefore  safe  to  conclude  that  there  are  at  least 
1875  persons  without  sight  in  the  kingdom. 

As  far  as  can  be  ascertained,  there  is  no  institution 
of  any  kind  in  Greece  for  the  relief  of  the  blind,  but 
it  may  be  hoped  that  ere  long  the  descendants  of 
Homer  and  Timoleon  will  take  away  this  reproach 
from  their  country ;  and  especially  in  this  matter  do 
we  look  to  the  numerous  and  enlightened  sons  of 
Hellas  resident  in  Western  Europe,  whose  philan- 
thropy could  not  be  better  employed  than  in  allevi- 
ating the  misfortunes  of  the  blind  of  their  own  father- 
land. 


414  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 


TURKEY  IN  EUROPE,  MONTENEGRO,  SKRVIA,  AND  THE 
PRINCIPALITIES  OP  MOLDAVIA  AND  WALLACHIA. 

Of  the  number  of  the  blind  in  the  States  above 
named  there  are  no  authentic  returns ;  but  taking  the 
total  population  at  thirteen  millions,  and  accepting' 
the  ratio  of  the  sightless  as  one  in  every  eight  hundred 
of  the  inhabitants,  we  arrive  at  the  conclusion  that 
there  cannot  be  fewer  than  16,250  blind  persons  in 
European  Turkey  and  the  adjacent  semi-independent 
principalities. 

In  the  countries  of  which  we  are  now  treating,  there 
is  not  a  single  institution  for  the  welfare  of  the  blind ; 
but  of  late  years  some  Christian  missionaries  at  Con- 
stantinople have  formed  classes  of  persons  deprived  of 
sight,  for  the  purpose  of  religious  instruction,  and  the 
mulahs,  or  Mahommedan  priests,  fearing  the  loss  of 
their  flock,  have  emulated'  the  missionaries  in  this 
respect. 

It  is  probable  that  these  efforts  may  result  in  the 
establishment  of  permanent  institutions  for  the  promo- 
tion of  the  intellectual  and  physical  welfare  of  the 
blind ;  but  for  the  present,  both  Mussulmen  and  Chris- 
tians allow  their  poor  sightless  ones  to  beg  or  perish, 
without  stretching  forth  a  hand  to  save  them. 


ASIA. 
TURKEY  IN  ASIA. 

Of  the  number  of  the  blind  in  this  division  of  the 
Ottoman  Empire,  there  are  no  authentic  returns ;  but 
placing  the  population  at  17,000,000,  and  taking  the 
proportion  which  those  without  sight  bear  to  the 
general  inhabitants  as  1  in  600,  which  is .  probably 
below  the  truth,  we  find  that  the  number  of  the  blind 


THE    BLIND   OF   VAEIOUS   COUNTRIES.  415 

exceeds  28,000.  The  only  known  effort  made  for  the 
welfare  of  the  sightless  in  the  Asiatic  dominions  of  the 
Sultan  is  that  by  Mr.  Mott,  a  Protestant  Christian 
gentleman  of  Beyrout,  who  has  caused  several  portions 
of  the  Holy  Scriptures  to  be  embossed  in  Arabic  in 
Moon's  characters,  and  has  taught  many  blind  persons, 
one  of  whom  is  constantly  occupied  in  reading  to 
the  poor.  This  philanthropist  and  his  family,  aided  by 
the  efforts  of  Mrs.  Bowen  Thompson,  of  London,  have 
succeeded  in  establishing  two  institutions  for  the  blind 
in  Syria,  which  are  situate  at  Beyrout  and  at  Damas- 
cus, but  they  are  both  at'  present  in  an  infant  state. 
Great  promise,  however,  exists  of  an  early  develop- 
ment and  a  career  of  great  usefulness.  The  British 
and  Foreign  Bible  Society,  being  influenced  doubtless 
by  Mr.  Mott,  have  published,  in  Arabic,  in  Moon's 
type,  as  modified  by  the  Society, — St.  Matthew's 
Gospel,  3s.  •  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  2s.  Wd.  •  the 
Epistles  to  the  Komans  and  the  Corinthians,  3s. ;  the 
Revelations,  2s.  Although  the  Turks  take  no  means 
to  improve  the  condition  of  those  who  are  deprived  of 
sight,  yet  they  sometimes  find  by  sad  experience  that 
blindness  does  not  disqualify  those  afflicted  by  it  for 
active  exertions,  as  the  following  account  of  the  ex- 
ploits of  a  blind  bandit,  who  lived  about  fourteen  years 
since,  will  strikingly  show.  The  writer  of  the  narrative 
says,— 

"As  Dr.  J.  Macraith  was  riding  out  to  a  village, 
about  ten  miles  from  Smyrna,  to  visit  a  sick  lady,  he 
was  attacked  by  a  band  of  robbers  and  compelled  to 
accompany  them  to  a  range  of  mountains  many  miles 
distant.  Three  or  four  gentlemen  who  were  with  him 
were  seized  at  the  same  time.  The  chief  of  the 
robbers,  Blind  Simeon  by  name,  sent  word  to  the  city 
by  a  shepherd,  that  he  asked  a  ransom  of  £3000  ster- 
ling for  his  captives.  Colonel  Storks,  the  governor  of 
the  British  Hospital,  went  out  with  a  large  body  of 
Turkish  soldiers,  two-thirds  of  the  civil  doctors,  and 


416  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

six  or  seven  English  officers  to  effect  a  rescue.  This 
expedition,  however,  had  no  favourable  result.  The ' 
robbers  subsequently  dispatched  one  of  the  gentlemen 
who  was  taken  captive  to  Smyrna,  reducing  the  ransom 
of  the  whole  party  to  £300  sterling ;  adding,  however, 
that  if  the  messenger  gave  notice  of  their  whereabouts, 
or  brought  back  any  soldiers  with  him,  his  friends 
would  be  forthwith  put  to  death.  Dr.  Macraith  re- 
turned to  Smyrna,  having  received,  after  a  week's 
captivity,  his  liberty,  his  watch,  and  £1  travelling  ex- 
penses, upon  payment  of  a  ransom  of  £500.  Simeon, 
the  chief,  was  very  polite,  and  shared  with  him  what- 
ever food  the  band  happened  to  possess.  He  likewise 
seized  for  Macraith,  who  became  fatigued,  a  donkey 
belonging  to  an  old  Turk  and  a  boy,  both  of  whom 
were  afterwards  shot. 

"  It  was  thought  that  one  of  the  civil  medical  staff 
had  been  taken,  and  Simeon  sent  a  message  by  Dr. 
Macraith  to  Smyrna,  saying  he  intended  ere  long  to 
have  a  person  for  whose  ransom  he  would  require 
£3000,  and  for  the  commandant,  Colonel  Storks,  he 
should  demand  £20,000."  It  would  appear  almost 
certain  that  the  other  captives  were  released  with  Dr. 
Macraith,  but  the  narrative  from  which  the  foregoing 
particulars  are  taken  makes  no  mention  of  the  circum- 
stance, neither  does  it  explain  why  the  ransom  after 
having  been  reduced  to  £300  was  increased  to  £500 ; 
we  suppose,  however,  that  delay  in  forwarding  the 
money  caused  the  bandits  to  raise  their  demand. 

ARABIA. 

Taking  the  population  of  Arabia  at  ten  millions,  and, 
on  account  of  the  sandy  nature  of  the  soil,  the  pecu- 
liarities of  the  climate,  and  the  observations  of  tra- 
vellers, placing  the  ratio  of  the  blind  as  one  in  every 
400  of  the  inhabitants, — we  arrive  at  the  conclusion  that 
there  are  no  fewer  than  25,000  persons  without  sight 


THE    BLIND   OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  417 

in  independent  Arabia.  In  addition  to  the  causes 
already  named,  there  is  a  particular  kind  of  fly  in  the 
country  which  is  specially  inimical  to  sight,  and  on  the 
shores  of  the  Persian  Gulf  many  of  ^the  Arabs  em- 
ployed as  divers  in  the  pearl  fisheries,  become  blind 
from  inflammation. 

RUSSIA  IN  ASIA. 

Of  this  portion  of  the  dominions  of  the  Czar  we 
have  no  authentic  data  respecting  the  number  of  the 
blind ;  but  if  we  estimate  the  population  of  Siberia, 
the  Trans-Caucasian  provinces,  and  the  possessions  of 
Russia  in  Central  Asia,  at  ten  millions,  and  accept  the 
ratio  of  the  sightless  as  1  in  800,  we  find  that  the 
number  of  the  blind  is  about  12,500.  For  the  as- 
sistance of  persons  without  sight  there  is  no  pro- 
vision made  in  the  above-named  territories,  which 
can  scarcely  be  wondered  at,  seeing  that  so  little  is 
done  for  the  blind  in  European  Russia. 

TARTARY  OR  TURKESTAN. 

Accepting  the  population  of  Independent  Tartary 
as  four  millions,  and  placing  the  ratio  of  those  without 
sight  at  1  in  600,  we  arrive  at  the  conclusion  that  the 
number  of  the  blind  in  the  various  states  occupy- 
ing the  country  is  about  6600.  This  however,  like 
everything  connected  with  Turkestan,  is  only  pro- 
blematical, and  may  be  very  far  from  the  truth. 

The  shocking  practice  carried  on  in  Tartary  until 
within  the  last  few  years,  of  putting  out  the  eyes  of 
criminals  in  the  most  barbarous  manner,  has  been  so 
fully  described  in  the  article  on  the  causes  of  blind- 
ness, that  any  further  notice  of  it  here  is  unnecessary. 

AFGHANISTAN. 

If  the  population  of  this  country  is  taken  at  five 

2  E 


418  BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 

millions,  and  the  ratio  of  the  blind  as  1  in  600,  the 
number  of  persons  without  sight  will  be  about  8300 ; 
as,  however,  the  population  of  Afghanistan  is  not 
known  with  anything  like  certainty,  any  conjecture  as 
to  the  number  of  the  blind  must  be  of  the  most  su- 
perficial character. 

PERSIA. 

The  population  of  this  kingdom  is  variously  esti- 
mated from  eight  to  ten  millions,  and  accepting  the 
latter  number,  which  we  think  there  is  good  evidence 
to  show  is  nearer  the  truth,  and  placing  the  ratio  of 
those  without  sight  at  1  in  600,  we  find  that  the 
number  of  the  blind  amounts  to  about  seventeen 
thousand. 

In  the  year  952,  a  blind  poet  obtained  great  popu- 
larity in  this  country,  and  possessing  much  influence 
over  the  monarch,  he  was  raised  to  such  wealth  that 
he  had  200  slaves  to  attend  him.  The  poet's  name 
was  Abul  Hasan  Rudegi,  and  it  is  said  that  he  wrote 
no  fewer  than  1,300,000  verses,  besides  other  works ; 
these  productions,  however,  must  have  possessed  small 
merit,  as  very  few  of  them  now  exist. 

About  the  middle  of  the  seventeenth  century,  Habas 
the  Great,  Shah  of  Persia,  put  out  the  eyes  of  a  prince 
of  the  blood  royal,  named  Mirza  Rezi,  to  prevent  his 
ever  being  called  to  the  throne ;  and  this  blind  prince, 
having  given  offence  to  many  of  the  powerful  courtiers 
by  his  determination  to  manage  his  own  property,  was 
in  the  reign  of  Abbas  the  Second  imprisoned  in  a 
quarter  of  his  palace,  the  only  companion  of  his  con- 
finement being  another  prince  who  had  been  deprived 
of  sight  for  similar  reasons  of  state  policy.  On  Lefie 
the  Second  coming  to  the  throne  he  released  Mirza 
Rezi,  restored  him  his  estates,  and  treated  him  with 
every  mark  of  consideration.  It  is  worthy  of  re- 
mark that  on  his  being  set  at  liberty,  this  blind  prince 


THE    BLIND   OP  VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  419 

devoted  himself  to  the  improvement  of  his  property 
in  the  most  business-like  way.  He  built  streets, 
and  turned  cemeteries  into  bazaars  in  a  manner 
which  utterly  astonished  Orientals,  and  would  do 
credit  to  any  modern  speculator  of  London  or  New 
York. 

The  acquirements  of  this  royal  personage  are  so  well 
worthy  of  notice  that  we  translate  a  description  of 
them  from  the  works  of  the  French  traveller  Chardin. 
Mirza  Kezi,  says  our  authority,  devoted  himself  espe- 
cially to  the  studies  of  astronomy  and  the  mathematics. 
He  calculated  the  movements  of  the  heavenly  bodies, 
and  performed  the  various  algebraic  rules  with  as  much 
correctness  as  though  he  had  been  a  sighted  professor 
in  a  European  college.  In  the  execution  of  these 
operations  he  sometimes  proceeded  as  follows.  He 
took  a  tablet  of  wood,  or  other  suitable  material,  from 
twenty-five  to  thirty  inches  in  diameter,  and  having 
placed  one  of  the  points  of  a  pair  of  compasses  in  the 
centre  of  a  circle  he  wished  to  draw,  he  traversed  the 
board  with  the  other  point  of  the  compass,  at  the  re- 
quired distance  from  the  centre,  and  marked  the  line 
thus  traced  with  a  stick  of  soft  wax  or  gum,  about  the 
thickness  of  the  point  of  a  needle. 

If  he  wished  to  form  a  triangle,  or  any  other  figure, 
he  proceeded  in  like  manner,  his  judgment  guiding 
him  as  to  the  motions  of  the  movable  point  of  the 
compass.  He  also  formed  letters  and  figures  with 
wax  in  like  manner  with  complete  success,  noting  down 
the  degrees  and  minutes,  and  performing  the  operations 
of  addition  and  subtraction,  etc.  in  a  way  which 
utterly  astonished  his  European  visitor.  Of  course, 
he  employed  sighted  readers;  but  the  manner  in  which 
he  triumphed  over  the  various  difficulties  of  his  po- 
sition shows  that  even  at  that  early  age,  and  in  a 
country  so  remote  from  what  we  are  accustomed  to 
deem  the  centres  of  civilization,  a  blind  person  set  at 
nought  the  efforts  of  man  and  nature,  and  succeeded 

2  E  2 


420  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

in  providing  food  for  his  mind  when  under  the  in- 
fluence of  the  most  crushing  circumstances. 

Mirza  Rezi  was  also  passionately  fond  of  watches 
and  clocks,  and  in  his  confinement  possessed  up- 
wards of  200  of  such  articles.  He  could  take  them  to 
pieces  and  put  them  together  with  the  greatest  accu- 
racy, and  frequently  gave  as  much  as  £40  for  a  time- 
piece, the  only  merit  of  which  consisted  in  the  excel- 
lence of  its  works.  It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that 
the  composition  of  the  wax  used  by  this  prince  is  now 
unknown,  as  its  use  would  be  of  essential  service  in 
the  instruction  of  the  blind. 

In  Persia  it  is  common  for  the  blind  to  walk  about 
the  cities  without  guides,  and  mendicancy  is  their  or- 
dinary mode  of  obtaining  a  livelihood.  These  circum- 
stances are  sufficiently  shown  by  the  following  incident 
related  by  E.  B.  Eastwick  in  his  '  Journal  of  a  Diplo- 
mate's  Three  Years'  Eesidence  in  Persia/  vol.  i.  p.  265; 
describing  a  procession  advancing  to  the  race-course, 
he  says,— 

"  After  a  number  of  grandees  had  passed  with  nu- 
merous trains  of  attendants,  a  body  of  royal  Farrashes 
made  their  appearance  with  long  white  wands,  shout- 
ing furiously  to  all  and  singular,  to  get  out  of  the  way. 
These  men  preceded  the  ladies  of  the  Shah's  harem, 
and  their  zeal  seemed  to  border  on  the  comical,  for  an 
unfortunate  blind  beggar  having  wandered  across  the 
line  of  beauty,  a  number  of  them  rushed  upon  him,  and 
handled  him  about  as  mercilessly  as  if  he  had  all  the 
eyes  of  Argus,  and  the  indiscretion  of  Actaeon.  The  be- 
wildered mendicant  at  one  time  plunged  frantically 
towards  the  sacred  carriages,  instead  of  flying  from 
them,  and  then  such  a  hubbub  arose  that  I  gave  him 
up  as  lost;  but  at  last  he  was  cuffed  and  poked  out 
of  the  way  till  he  disappeared  from  my  view." 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  421 


INDIA. 

According  to  official  returns,  the  population  of  that 
part  of  India  directly  subject  to  the  English  Govern- 
ment is  132,000,000  of  souls,  and  the  number  of  the 
inhabitants  of  the  so-called  Independent  States  of 
Hindostan,  including  Burmah,  is  45,000,000,  and  if 
for  our  purpose  we  combine  these  figures,  we  find  that 
the  total  population  of  India  amounts  to  177,000,000. 

Considering  how  large  a  proportion  of  this  country 
lies  within  the  tropics,  and  that  that  portion  is  by  far 
the  most  densely  peopled,  considering  also  the  habits 
of  the  Hindoos,  and  the  deficiency  among  them  of 
medical  skill,  we  are  forced  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
persons  within  its  limits  who  are  without  sight  are  not 
fewer  than  354,000,  which  is  a  ratio  of  1  in  every 
500  of  the  population. 

That  British  Christians  and  the  British  Government 
should  not  have  done  anything  to  alleviate  the  misfor- 
tunes of  these  354,000  sightless  ones,  who  are  by 
God's  providence  entirely  dependent  upon  their 
care,  is  a  matter  at  which  we  may  well  be  surprised ; 
but  we  hope  that  ere  long,  principle  will  have  more  to 
do  with  the  government  of  India  than  it  has  hitherto 
had,  and  that  the  professed  followers  of  Jesus  will  not 
think  it  their  duty  to  cut  people  in  pieces,  or  blow 
them  from  the  cannon's  mouth  when  they  will  not 
obey  them ;  and,  when  they  are  obedient  in  all  things, 
leave  their  souls  in  darkness,  and  allow  hundreds  of 
thousands  to  perish  for  want  of  the  commonest  neces- 
saries of  life.  Surely  the  British  people  cannot 
imagine  that  the  great  Father  of  mankind  has  placed 
hundreds  of  millions  of  human  beings  under  their  sway 
for  the  sole  purpose  of  enabling  a  few  hundred 
.sons  of  Albion  to  amass  large  fortunes.  But  our 
work  is  with  the  blind,  and  not  to  write  an  article  on 
the  government  of  India,  and  we  shall  therefore  close 


422  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

these  remarks  by  expressing  the  hope  that  the  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  the  sightless  inhabitants  of 
Hindostan,  may  soon  feel  the  force  of  English  Christian 
philanthropy,  and  also  by  observing  that  the  Hindoos 
themselves  seem  to  be  very  liberal  towards  persons 
without  sight,  as  they  allow  them  to  enjoy  all  the 
privileges  of  caste,  and  that  with  them  a  Brahmin 
though  blind,  is  a  Brahmin  still. 

THE  DUTCH  EAST  INDIES. 

The  governmental  returns  give  the  population  of  this 
division  of  Asia  as  16,354,000,  and  as  the  countries 
included  in  the  estimate  are  generally  of  an  equatorial 
character,  the  proportion  which  the  number  of  the 
blind  bears  to  the  general  population  is  probably  1  in 
300,  according  to  which  estimate  the  subjects  of 
Holland  in  Asia  without  sight  cannot  be  fewer  than 
55,000. 

Unfortunately  we  are  obliged  to  add  that  the  Dutch, 
like  the  English,  have  hitherto  done  nothing  for  the 
blind  of  their  East  Indian  dependencies,  but  it  is  to 
be  hoped  that  ere  long  the  thrifty  inhabitants  of  the 
Netherlands  will  rid  themselves  of  this  reproach. 

SIAM  AND  COCHIN  CHINA. 

These  two  countries  although  entirely  independent 
of  each  other,  are  yet  so  much  alike  as  regards  the 
estimate  of  population  and  the  probable  number  of  the 
blind,  that  we  have  placed  them  together  in  the  above 


In  each  kingdom,  including  dependencies,  the  popu- 
lation is  6,000,000,  and  the  probable  ratio  of  the  blind 
1  in  400,  which  gives  the  total  number  of  persons 
without  sight  in  Siam  and  its  tributaries  of  Cambodia 
and  Lahos  as  15,000,  and  also  a  like  number  for  the- 
kingdom  of  Cochin  China. 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  423 


THE  PHILIPPINE  ISLES. 

These  Spanish  colonies  contain  a  population  of 
about  5,000,, 000,  and  as  their  geographical  position 
warrants  us  in  considering  the  ratio  "of  the  blind  as 
1  in  400,  the  number  of  persons  without  sight  in  the 
archipelago  cannot  be  fewer  than  12,500. 

The  Spaniards  have  not  yet  made  any  effort  for  the 
welfare  of  their  sightless  Asiatic  subjects,  but  this  can 
hardly  be  wondered  at  when  the  English  and  Dutch 
have  set  them  such  a  bad  example. 

CHINA. 

The  population  of  this  vast  empire  is  variously  esti- 
mated from  300,000,000  to  500,000,000  of  souls ;  ac- 
cepting it,  however,  as  410,000,000,  which  is  the  com- 
putation of  the  best  authorities,  and  taking  the  ratio 
of  the  blind  as  1  in  400,  (which  is  fully  justified 
by  the  geographical  position  of  the  most  populous 
parts  of  the  country,)  it  is  evident  that  there  cannot  be 
fewer  than  one  million  and  twenty-five  thousand  per- 
sons without  sight  in  the  Celestial  Empire. 

Although  institutions  for  the  relief  of  suffering  and 
the  suppression  of  vice  are  very  numerous  in  China, 
so  much  so,  indeed,  that  that  empire  is  superior  in  this 
respect  to  many  European  countries, — yet,  as  far  as  we 
know,  there  is  not  a  single  native  establishment  spe- 
cially devoted  to  the  alleviation  of  the  sufferings  of  the 
blind.  Societies  for  the  benefit  of  widows  and  orphans 
there  are  in  abundance,  as  also  medical  dispensaries 
and  hospitals;  but  the  blind  are  classed  indiscrimi- 
nately with  common  vagrants,  and  the  only  privilege 
accorded  to  them  is  the  permission  to  subsist  by  alms. 
The  vagrant  classes  in  the  flowery  land  are  very  nu- 
merous, but  the  blind  excel  them  all  in  numerical 
strength.  In  the  various  towns  and  provinces  of  the 
Chinese  empire,  mendicants  are  supplied  with  certain 


424  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

daily  rations  at  the  public  charge,  but  these  allowances 
being  insufficient  for  their  maintenance,  they  are  per- 
mitted to  solicit  charity  from  house  to  house ;  and  such 
is  the  spirit  of  organization  which  prevails,  that  they 
form  themselves  into  regular  associations  with  recog- 
nized leaders  and  accumulated  funds.  The  leaders 
conduct  commercial  transactions  on  behalf  of  their 
societies,  among  which  undertakings,  the  discounting 
of  bills  is  a  favourite  speculation,  and  in  connection 
with  this  subject,  it  may  be  mentioned,  that  whenever 
the  payment  of  a  bill  is  not  duly  met,  the  residence  of 
the  delinquent  is  attacked  by  a  whole  army  of  beggars, 
who  destroy  his  goods,  and  threaten  to  pull  his  house 
down  on  his  head  unless  he  makes  immediate  payment ; 
and  as  the  beggars  are  seldom  interfered  with  by  the 
authorities,  they  generally  succeed  in  attaining  their 
object.  Some  of  those  without  sight  play  on  a  kind 
of  violin,  and  sing  for  a  subsistence ;  and  it  is  a  re- 
markable circumstance  to  find  that  many  of  the  blind 
procure  a  livelihood  by  telling  fortunes ;  indeed  such 
celebrity  have  they  acquired  in  this  way,  that  it  is  said 
they  have  a  monopoly  of  the  business ;  all  they  require 
to  know  is  the  age  and  the  day  and  hour  of  birth  of 
any  one  inquiring,  and  they  will  pretend  to  give  his 
future  history. 

There  is  a  remarkable  episode  in  Chinese  history 
which  speaks  very  highly  for  the  powers  of  memory 
possessed  by  some  persons  without  sight,  and  at  the 
same  time  offers  a  strong  reason  why  the  inhabitants 
of  the  Celestial  Empire  should  hold  the  blind  in  lasting 
respect. 

About  the  year  220  B.C.  the  Emperor  Ching,  the  most 
famous  ruler  China  ever  had,  and  the  builder  of  the  great 
wall,  made  an  attempt  to  destroy  all  the  then  existing 
literature  and  records,  and  put  many  learned  men  to 
death,  fearing  that  they  might  excite  the  people  to 
rebellion.  This  revolutionary  monarch  seems  to  have 
nearly  succeeded  in  accomplishing  his  destructive  pur- 


THE   BLIND    OP   VARIOUS   COUNTRIES.  425 

pose,  but  on  the  revival  of  literature  under  the  dynasty 
that  succeeded  him,  the  text  of  the  most  historical 
work  which  Confucius  included  in  his  collection,  was 
partly  recovered  from  a  blind  old  man,  who  was  able 
to  repeat  it  from  memory,  and  a  copy  of  the  original 
being  afterwards  found  in  the  ruins  of  the  house  of 
Confucius,  the  correctness  of  the  extraordinary  memory 
of  the  sightless  patriot  was  fully  established. 

It  is  much  to  the  credit  of  the  Christian  missionaries 
of  China  that  they  have  paid  considerable  attention  to, 
and  have  done  what  they  could  to  mitigate  the  suffer- 
ings of  the  blind ;  and  some  idea  of  the  number  of  such 
persons  with  whom  they  have  come  in  contact,  may  be 
gathered  from  the  circumstance  that  out  of  a  total 
number  of  seven  or  eight  hundred  poor  who  shared  in 
the  rice  distributions  at  the  Canton  Mission  House 
some  ten  years  ago,  there  were  no  fewer  than  five 
hundred  and  ninety -nine  persons  without  sight. 
About  thirty  years  since,  the  humane  Prussian  mis- 
sionary Dr.  Gutzlaff  succeeded  in  rescuing  six  blind 
Chinese  girls,  two  of  whom  were  sent  to  America  and 
placed  at  the  Philadelphia  Institution,  and  four  became 
inmates  at  different  times  of  the  schools  of  the  Lon- 
don Society  for  Teaching  the  Blind  to  Read,  St.  John's 
Wood.  The  greater  number  of  these  poor  children 
died  in  their  adopted  countries,  but  about  thirteen 
years  ago  one  of  the  number — named  Agnes  Gutzlaff, 
after  the  name  of  her  benefactor — returned  to  her 
native  land,  and  became  the  principal  teacher  at  a 
school  for  the  blind,  opened  by  Miss  Aldersey,  one  of 
the  missionaries  at  Ningpo.  For  the  use  of  this 
school  a  portion  of  the  Gospel  of  St.  John  was  printed 
in  Chinese  in  Lucas's  characters,  under  the  direction 
of  Professor  Summers,  of  King's  College,  London, 
and  books  in  relief  print  were  subsequently  issued  in 
the  same  language  in  Moon's  characters. 

When  a  few  years  since,  Ningpo  was  taken  by  the 
rebels,  this  first  school  for  the  blind  in  China  was 


426  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

broken  up,  but  it  is  satisfactory  to  find  that  although 
one  door  was  thus  closed,  another  has  been  opened,  for 
by  persevering  Christian  effort,  an  institution  has  been 
founded  at  Shanghai,  an  account  of  which  we  now  sub- 
join, as  given  in  a  letter  from  the  Rev.  E.  W.  Syle  to 
James  Hogg,  Esq.  Writing  of  this  matter,  the  good 
missionary  says,— 

"  My  dear  Sir, — Your  observations  concerning  the 
Chinese  blind  poor  have  thrown  my  thoughts  back 
twenty  years,  and  recalled  to  my  mind  some  of  the 
incidents  connected  with  those  efforts  for  their  good 
which  resulted  in  the  establishment  of  that  institution 
in  which  you  have  taken  so  friendly  an  interest.  I  do 
not  know  in  what  way  I  can  better  make  you  ac- 
quainted with  the  things  you  wish  to  know  than  by 
telling  the  [little  history  just  as  it  occurred.  In  doing 
this,  I  find  myself  carried  back  to  the  early  days  of 
1845-48,  when  most  of  us  lived  in  the  south-eastern 
suburb  of  the  Chinese  city,  near  the  Tung-ka-Doo ; 
when  the  British  Consulate  was  within  the  city  walls, 
and  the  present  'settlement'  and  'concessions'  were 
not  known  as  such.  These  were  the  days  when  it  was 
possible  to  visit  the  whole  foreign  community  in  a 
couple  of  hours  on  New  Year's  morning ;  when  every 
resident  knew  every  other  resident,  and  merchants, 
missionaries,  consular  officers,  and  seamen  were  drawn 
together  as  one  neighbourly  little  community.  A  good 
instance  of  this  harmonious  condition  of  things  was 
our  all  assembling  together  on  Sunday  mornings,  for 
divine  service,  at  the  British  Consulate.  Captain  (now 
General)  Balfour,  the  Consul;  English,  Scotch,  and 
American;  Episcopal,  Presbyterian,  and  Congrega- 
tional ;  we  all  attended  this  service  for  a  considerable 
time  and  found  it  a  great  rallying  point  of  interest 
and  good  neighbourship.  Our  communion  services, 
however,  were  always  held  at  Bishop  Boone's  house ; 
and  it  was  the  offerings  made  on  these  occasions  which 
formed  the  little  fund  out  of  which  relief  for  the  poor 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  427 

was  first  provided.  Happily  at  that  time  we  had  no 
Christian  poor  around  us  needing  assistance.  We 
therefore  turned  to  our  poorer  Chinese  neighbours, 
and  made  selection  from  amongst  them  of  such  as 
seemed  most  needy :  giving  them  each  a  small  weekly 
pension,  and  adding  some  Christian  instruction  when 
they  came  on  a  fixed  day  to  receive  it.  In  this  way, 
Mr.  M'Clatchie  and  myself,  and  more  especially  our 
lamented  brother  Spalding,  endeavoured  to  discharge 
our  duty  as  almoners  of  the  church. 

'•'  But  alas,  we  soon  found  that  all  kinds  of  impo- 
sitions on  us  were  attempted,  very  much  as  it  is  at 
home,  when  any  charitable  operations  are  engaged  in. 
I  will  not  undertake  to  enumerate  them;  but  only 
say  that  we  came  to  the  conclusion  that  our  best  plan 
would  be  to  take  the  blind,  as  an  unquestionably  suf- 
fering class,  under  our  charge.  We  felt  sure  that  we 
could  not  go  far  wrong  in  giving  them  some  '  aid  and 
comfort/  and  therefore  our  pensions  were  allotted  to 
them  in  preference  to  all  others. 

"  This  arrangement  proved  much  more  satisfactory  -r 
and  one  of  the  results  was  that  being  brought  under 
regular  instruction,  and  encouraged  (though  not  re- 
quired) to  observe  the  Sabbath  Day,  many  of  them 
became  applicants  for  baptism,  so  that  among  our 
early  converts  here  there  was  an  unusually  large  pro- 
portion of  those  whose  eyes  were  blinded — as  far,  at 
least,  as  this  world  is  concerned.  Notwithstanding 
this  improvement,  I  did  not  myself  feel  entirely  satis- 
fied. There  was  a  languor,  inertness,  and  a  stupor 
about  our  poor  pensioners  which  convinced  me  that 
all  we  wished  for  had  not  been  accomplished;  they 
were  evidently  far  from  happy,  even  with  that  modified 
happiness  which  the  blind  often  attain  among  our- 
selves, notwithstanding  their  bereavement.  It  did 
not  take  long  to  perceive  that  what  they  wanted  was 
'something  to  do/  but  what  that  something  should 
be  did  not  so  readily  appear.  On  inquiry,  it  was  found 


428  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

that  among  the  Chinese,  blind  people  were  largely  em- 
ployed as  fortune-tellers,  sometimes  as  guitar-players 
and  ballad-singers ;  that  some  earned  a  few  '  cash'  by 
grinding  in  the  oil  mill,  going  round  and  round  in  a 
circle  of  not  more  than  ten  feet  diameter,  and  others, 
more  skilful,  worked  during  the  cotton  season  at  clean- 
ing the  seeds  from  the  raw  material.  Others  again 
went  about  the  streets  gathering  old  paper  with 
writing  on  it,  which  they  sold  to  a  certain  temple  for 
burning. 

"None  of  these  methods  seemed  feasible  for  a  ge- 
neral undertaking ;  and  I  was  almost  at  my  wit's  end 
when  one  day  I  happened  to  observe  a  poor  woman 
twisting  some  long  sedgy  grass  into  strings,  such  as 
are  used  for  holding  together,  by  hundreds,  the  cop- 
per '  cash '  which  are  in  such  constant  use.  '  This  is 
the  very  thing/  I  said  to  myself;  and  forthwith  asked 
the  woman  (very  much  to  her  surprise)  whether  she 
would  come  and  teach  some  blind  people  to  work? 
Thinking,  perhaps,  that  I  was  slightly  deranged,  she 
gave  a  kind  of  half  promise  that  she  would,  by  way  of 
humouring  and  getting  rid  of  me.  So  far  so  good. 
But  what  of  the  blind  people  themselves  ?  Could  they 
be  induced  to  work  for  their  cash,  instead  of  receiving 
it  as  alms  ?  Ah  !  there  was  the  rub  !  And  I  assure 
you  the  process  of  getting  their  consent  was  quite 
amusing  and  illustrative.  Imagine  us  assembled  as 
usual  on  occasion  of  the  weekly  disbursement,  the 
little  pile  of  cash  on  the  table,  and  the  blind  all  sitting 
on  the  church  benches  waiting  to  hear  what  I  had  to 
tell  them;  for,  somehow  or  other,  an  impression  had  got 
abroad  among  them  that  '  something  was  going  to  hap- 
pen/ and  they  felt  a  general  uneasiness  accordingly. 
This  I  soon  relieved,  by  explaining  my  principle  and 
project.  f  You  have  been  taught/  I  said,  addressing 
the  Christians  among  them,  '  the  words  of  the  fourth 
Commandment.  Now,  that  Commandment  has  two 
sides — the  resting  and  the  working  side ;  one  day  rest, 


THE   BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  429 

six  days  work.  This  is  part  of  our  religion/ — c  Ah, 
indeed  !  They  had  never  thought  of  that  before.  But 
what  could  they  do  ?  Poor  blind  helpless  creatures, 
how  could  tlicy  be  expected  to  do  anything  '/  I  sug- 
gested the  cash  string.  '  0,  no  ;  impossible  !  Such  a 
thing  had  never  been  heard  of/  This  last  is  a  very 
strong  Chinese  argument;  so  I  closed  the  conference 
by  giving  them  another  week  to  think  over  the  mat- 
ter and  come  to  some  conclusion  about  it,  knowing 
that  it  would  take  a  little  time  for  them  to  get  accus- 
tomed to  the  new  and  rather  unwelcome  idea. 

"I  will  not  attempt  to  describe  the  exercises  of 
mind  they  are  said  to  have  gone  through  at  this  stage 
of  the  proceedings ;  what  conferences  they  had  in  tea- 
shops  and  at  the  various  places  of  rendezvous  where 
four  or  five  were  accustomed  to  meet  together.  About 
all  this,  of  course,  I  knew  nothing  officially,  but  waited 
quietly  till  the  next  weekly  gathering.  There  was  a 
pretty  general  attendance,  and  an  air  of  important 
resoluteness  was  apparent  in  all  countenances,  espe- 
cially in  those  who  were  accustomed  to  be  spokesmen 
for  the  rest.  '  Well/  I  began,  '  what  conclusion  ? 
Have  you  found  out  what  you  can  do  during  the  six 
working  days  of  the  week  ?'  The  reply  was  evidently 
well  considered.  'Syle,  elder-born,  we  are  quite  satis- 
fied ;  we  cannot  possibly  do  any  work  at  all.  No,  we 
cannot.'  Emphatic  pause.  The  resoluteness  of  coun- 
tenance becomes  rigidly  fixed.  Evidently  the  crisis 
had  come  and  must  be  met.  Plainly  it  rested  with 
me  to  break  the  silence,  which  I  did  somewhat  thus. 
'  This  is  unfortunate ;  for  our  religion  says,  "  A  man 
that  will  not  work,  neither  shall  he  eat ;"  and  I  am 
going  to  act  on  that  principle.  Those  of  you  who  will 
learn  to  work  for  the  next  month  shall  have  forty  cash 
a  day,  and  after  that  we  can  have  another  conference. 
Those  who  will  not  learn  need  not  come  for  any  cash 
at  all/  Deadlock  for  some  time,  then  little  murmuring 
conversation  among  the  leaders,  and  at  last  signs  of  re- 


430  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

lenting  began  to  appear.  Indeed,  before  the  meeting 
broke  up  they  came  to  take  a  cheerful  view  of  the 
whole  thing,  and  were  highly  amused  at  the  idea  of 
blind  people  presuming  to  be  operatives  ! 

"  The  cash-string  woman  was  summoned,  her  teach- 
ing commenced  at  once,  and  there  has  been  no  more  of 
the  '  non  possumus '  argument.  On  the  contrary,  I  can 
assure  you  that  from  that  day  there  has  been  a  gra- 
dual but  marked  improvement  in  the  whole  bearing 
of  these  poor  people.  They  have  brightened  up  won- 
derfully, and  seem  to  look  upon  themselves  as  persons 
of  no  small  consequence — members  of  a  highly  respect- 
able community  !  I  could  give  you  many  instances  of 
individual  improvement  and  development  of  character 
among  these,  our  patiently-suffering  fellow-creatures, 
but  I  feel  that  I  need  not  say  anything  to  excite  in 
you  an  interest  which  is  already  felt. 

"  Let  me,  however,  briefly  recount  the  things  which 
followed  on  this  good  commencement,  for  they  show 
how  all  things  are  made  to  '  work  together  for  good' 
when  we  have  in  hand  any  work  so  unquestionably 
Christian  as  caring  for  ' the  poor,  the  halt,  the  maimed, 
and  the  blind/  The  place  where  the  first  attempts 
were  made — where  the  surprised  teacher  was  put  in 
charge  of  her  bewildered  scholars — was  the  outer  part 
of  a  building  in  the  city,  then  occupied  as  a  preach- 
ing place  by  the  American  Methodist  Missionaries. 
This  they  had  very  kindly  lent  me,  and  we  continued 
there  for  several  weeks,  but  increased  numbers  and 
greater  convenience  caused  a  removal  to  two  apart- 
ments near  our  own  (Episcopal)  church,  also  in  the 
city.  While  here,  a  new  kind  of  work  was  added — 
making  straw  shoes,  and  the  purchaser  of  the  first  lot 
of  these  was  a  man  for  whose  memory  I  have  the  sin- 
cerest  respect,  KVung  Fong-tsun,  late  superintendent 
of  the  Chinese  Doong-Zung-Dong,  or  Hall  of  Uni- 
versal Benevolence. 

"Here  also  a  kind  friend  from  among  the  merchants 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  431 

looked  iu  upon  the  little  beehive,  and  gave  as  a  me- 
mento to  his  visit,  a  donation  which  has  ever  since 
been  a  kind  of  backbone  to  the  institution,  and  has 
sustained  it  through  a  trying  period,  when  other  ac- 
customed aid  has  failed.  Then  came  an  offer  from 
other  friends  to  buy  a  little  lot  of  ground.  Where- 
upon our  first-named  benefactor  gave  further  aid,  and 
built  us  a  house  for  'a  workshop.  Both  ground  and 
house  have  recently  been  put  in  order  after  the  devas- 
tation caused  by  the  rebel  occupation  of  the  city. 
Work  also  (which  for  some  years  was  intermitted)  has 
been  resumed,  so  that  we  feel  now  as  if  we  were  under 
way  once  more,  and  hope  to  make  our  annual  voyage 
successfully,  looking  for  warm-hearted  friends,  both 
old  and  new,  to  stand  by  us  as  occasion  may  require. 

"There  are  new  difficulties  in  our  way,  however. 
The  coir  door-mats  which  we  began  to  make  at  the 
suggestion  of  a  friend  among  the  sea  captains,  those 
unprofitable  durable  mats,  of  which  I  find  remaining 
still  in  use  some  that  were  made  at  least  ten  years 
ago, — these  plain  but  most  serviceable  articles  are 
now  too  plain  for  the  present  taste  of  our  refined  fo- 
reign community.  They  fail  to  find  favour  in  the  eyes 
of  the  fastidious,  even  at  the  price  of  one  tael  each. 
What  can  be  done  herein  ?  Does  your  ingenuity  sug- 
gest a  remedy  ?  If  it  does,  pray  communicate  your 
thoughts  to  me  at  once,  and  thus  oblige 

"  Yours,  very  sincerely, 

"  EDWD.  W.  SYLE. 

"P.S. — One  incident  I  have  omitted,  which  must 
not  be  forgotten,  or  my  little  history  would  be  in- 
complete. 

"  It  was  at  the  same  time  when  we  were  beginning 
this  poor  blind  work  that  we  were  also  endeavouring 
to  establish  what  has  now  become  the  N.C.B.  of  the 
Royal  Asiatic  Society,  and  it  was  for  the  purpose  of 
enlisting  his  interest  in  the  latter,  that  I  addressed 
one  of  our  commercial  friends,  whose  name  (with  those 


432  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

of  the  others  previously  referred  to)  I  have  purposely 
refrained  from  giving.  '  No/  he  said,  c  I  cannot 
join  you  in  that,  but  you  have  another  project  in  hand 
which  I  should  like  to  assist.  Send  me  the  subscrip- 
tion paper  for  your  blind  people/  I  did  so,  and  after 
a  week  or  two  it  was  returned  to  me  with  a  goodly 
number  of  names  added,  and  annual  subscriptions  to 
the  amount  of  between  five  and  six  hundred  dollars. 
I  could  wish  this  good  friend  had  a  successor,  who 
would  volunteer  the  procuring  of  a  like  number  of 
subscriptions  from  among  the  present  community, 
which  must  be  three  times  as  numerous  as  it  was  in 
the  days  of  which  I  have  been  writing.  We  have  had 
forty  of  the  blind  on  our  list,  there  are  only  thirty 
now." 

JAPAN. 

According  to  the  most  trustworthy  authorities,  the 
population  of  this  island  empire  is  about  50,000,000, 
and  the  observations  of  travellers,  and  the  geogra- 
phical position  of  the  most  populous  portion  of  the 
State,  warrant  us  in  supposing  that  the  ratio  which 
those  without  sight  bear  to  the  general  inhabitants  is 
about  1  in  400,  which  computation  places  the  num- 
ber of  the  blind  at  one  hundred  and  twenty-five 
thousand. 

One  of  the  customs  of  the  people  of  Japan  most 
injurious  to  sight  is  having  their  eyelids  daily  turned 
inside  out,  and  then  rubbed  over,  titulated,  and 
polished,  with  a  smooth  spatula.  No  wonder  that  we 
are  credibly  informed  that  in  the  city  of  Jeddo  alone, 
there  are  no  fewer  than  thirty-six  thousand  persons 
without  sight. 

From  a  work  on  Japan  by  M.  Edouard  Fraissinet, 
we  learn  that  in  that  country  there  are  two  societies 
or  brotherhoods,  composed  entirely  of  blind  persons, 
the  members  of  which  have  certain  prescriptive  rights- 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  433 

regarding  the  fulfilment  of  particular  official  offices 
connected  with,  the  social  and  religious  customs  of  the 
people. 

These  blind  brethren  are  very  numerous,  and  are 
scattered  all  over  the  country, — their  professional  pre- 
sence being  indispensable  at  public  festivals,  religious 
and  other  processions,  and  also  at  marriages. 

In  taking  part  in  processions,  they  walk  in  front, 
carrying  wands  to  clear  the  way  for  the  cavalcade ;  and 
it  certainly  is  very  singular  that  blind  men  should  be 
employed  to  clear  the  road  for  the  sighted,  but  there 
is  little  doubt  that  the  fact  of  it  being  known  that  the 
wand-bearers  are  suffering  from  so  heavy  an  affliction, 
exercises  a  softening  influence  on  the  crowds,  and  is  a 
more  'efficient  means  of  preserving  order  than  would 
be  produced  by  a  number  of  mounted  troopers.  The 
members  of  the  fraternities  live  by  their  profession, 
and  they  have  their  head-quarters  and  official  officers. 

The  origin  of  these  societies  is  somewhat  singular, 
and  we  therefore  give  the  following  particulars  taken 
from  the  source  before  named. 

One  of  the  fraternities  owes  its  origin  to  a  person 
named  Senminar  who,  in  his  youth  possessing  great 
personal  attractions,  had  the  good  fortune  to  be 
brought  under  the  notice  of  a  royal  princess,  who  en- 
tertained for  him  such  an  ardent  passion  that  she 
succeeded  in  making  him  her  husband,  Senminar, 
however,  was  not  long  permitted  to  enjoy  the  society 
of  his  royal  bride.  Death,  that  spares  neither  age  nor 
rank,  took  her  while  yet  young  to  his  embrace.  Sen- 
minar, overwhelmed  with  grief,  was  attacked  with  a 
severe  illness,  his  life  was  spared,  but  he  rose  from 
the  bed  of  sickness  with  one  sense  less.  His  sight 
was  gone,  and  now  in  his  blindness,  the  forlorn  Ja- 
panese nobleman  determined  to  devote  the  wealth 
bequeathed  to  him  by  her  so  fondly  loved,  to  alleviate 
the  misfortunes  of  those  who  not  only  shared  with  him 
the  affliction  of  blindness,  but  who  also  had  to  en- 


434  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

counter  all  the  evils  of  biting  poverty ;  he  thereforer 
founded  a  brotherhood  of  blind  men,  which  still  bears 
his  name. 

The  foundation  of  the  second  society  to  which  re- 
ference has  been  made  is  equally  romantic.  Like  the 
preceding  case  it  occurred  several  centuries  ago,  and 
the  following  particulars  may  give  some  idea  of  its 
commencement. 

Yoritomo,  a  Japanese  prince,  succeeded  in  making 
two  neighbouring  princes  war  with  each  other  until 
both  were  exhausted,  he  then  easily  vanquished  them, 
and  seized  on  their  possessions;  he  however  spared 
Kakekigo,  a  feudatory,  and  an  able  defender  of  one  of 
the  deposed  princes.  Yoritomo  also  wished  to  attach 
Kakekigo  to  his  person  and  plans,  but  the  latter  en- 
tertained so  strong  a  regard  for  his  former  master,  and 
such  a  hatred  of  Yoritomo,  although  he  had  spared  his 
life,  that  he  rejected  all  advances  with  stubborn 
determination.  At  length,  however,  feeling  compunc- 
tion for  his  treatment  of  his  present  benefactor,he  sought 
Yoritomo,  and  thus  addressed  him, — "  As  I  cannot  look 
upon  you  without  feeling  a  strong  desire  to  revenge  the 
wrongs  of  my  prince,  my  former  lord,  by  putting  to 
death  a  conqueror  from  whom  I  have  received  great 
favours,  receive  these  eyes  which  have  caused  me  to 
wish  you  such  evil ;  at  least,'  I  will  not  allow  myself  to 
be  tempted  to  commit  the  unpardonable  sin  of  ingra- 
titude," and  thereupon  Kakekigo,  tore  out  his  own 
eyes,  and  presented  them  to  Yoritomo,  who  was  so 
overcome  with  admiration  of  the  heroic  act  that  he 
showered  favours  upon  this  devoted  adherent. 

Kakekigo,  sympathizing  in  his  affliction  with  the- 
privations  of  others,  imitated  the  example  of  Senminar, 
and  founded  a  brotherhood  of  the  same  character  as 
that  established  by  his  equally  unfortunate  prede- 
cessor ;  and  in  proof  of  his  undying  attachment  to  his 
first  sovereign,  called  the  name  of  the  fraternity  by 
the  family  appellation  of  that  prince,  viz.  Feki ;  and  it 


THE    BLIND   OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  435 

is  worthy  of  remark  that  the  most  distinguished  nobles 
of  Japan  have  always  made  their  affliction  a  motive 
for  alleviating  the  wants  of  their  sightless  brethren 
suffering  from  poverty. 


AFRICA. 

So  little  is  known  of  the  vast  continent  of  Africa 
that  we  are  unable  to  enter  into  particulars  with  re- 
gard to  the  various  States  or  governments  it  contains, 
and  must  therefore  content  ourselves  by  offering  a 
few  general  remarks,  which  are  for  the  most  part 
applicable  to  the  whole  of  that  division  of  the  globe. 

Africa,  lying  as  it  does  between  latitude  37°  20'  N. 
and  34°  50'  S.,  and  longitude  17°  34'  W.  and 
51°  20'  E.,  and  its  surface  being  so  largely  occu- 
pied by  immense  deserts,  of  which  it  has  been  aptly 
said  that  their  soil  is  fire,  and  their  wind  a  flame ;  the 
sea-coasts,  and  the  banks  of  the  rivers  consisting 
moreover,  to  a  very  large  extent,  of  low  unhealthy 
jungle, — it  is  no  wonder  that  courageous  travellers,  who 
have  adventured  their  lives  in  the  cause  of  science, 
inform  us  that  diseases  of  the  eye  are  frightfully  nume- 
rous. In  Egypt,  some  writers  think  that  the  num- 
ber of  the  blind  is  1  in  every  300  of  the  population, 
whereas  others  place  it  as  high  as  1  in  100,  and 
in  Morocco  it  is  said  that  one  in  every  hundred  of 
the  people  is  without  sight.  If,  however,  we  take 
the  lowest  of  the  estimates  given  for  Egypt,  as  that 
applicable  to  the  entire  continent,  and  if  we  accept 
the  total  population  of  Africa  as  100,000,000,  we 
find  that  on  this  division  of  the  globe  there  are  no 
fewer  than  333,000  blind  persons. 

It  is  matter  of  surprise  that  neither  the  English  of 
Cape  Colony  nor  the  French  of  Algeria  have  at- 
tempted to  do  anything  for  the  blind  of  those  colonies ; 
and  we  earnestly  recommend  the  consideration  of  the 

2  P  2 


436  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

subject  to  the  devoted  missionaries  who  labour  for  the 
well-being  of  the  African  races.  Of  course  it  is  al- 
most superfluous  to  say  that  nothing  is  done  by  the 
native  rulers  of  Africa,  but  better  things  might  fairly 
have  been  hoped  of  Egypt.  It  is,  however,  in  that 
country  at  the  present  time,  much  as  it  was  in  the 
days  of  the  Pharaohs,  the  rulers  requiring  the  execu- 
tion of  great  works,  and  driving  the  people  to  their 
labours  with  the  stick. 

But  we  suppose  that  as  the  blind  are  not  considered 
capable  of  performing  a  daily  task,  they  at  least 
escape  the  bastinado.  We  believe  that  at  Cairo  there 
is  a  kind  of  almshouse  where  a  number  of  indigent 
persons  are  assisted,  and  that  those  without  sight 
form  no  inconsiderable  portion  of  the  inmates.  This 
establishment  is  either  maintained  by  the  govern- 
ment, or  by  some  Mahommedan  community,  but 
nothing  of  an  educational,  or  industrial  character  has 
been  attempted.  Several  years  ago,  some  English 
missionaries  caused  a  few  passages  of  Scripture  to  be 
embossed  in  Arabic,  with  Mr.  Freer's  characters,  but 
nothing  permanent  came  of  the  undertaking.  At- 
tempts have  also  been  made  to  teach  the  blind  to  do  a 
little  work,  by  plaiting  rushes,  etc.,  but  with  the 
same  melancholy  result.  It  is  to  be  hoped,  however, 
that  this  state  of  things  will  not  last  long,  and  that 
the  improving  Mussulman  civilization  of  which  we 
hear  so  much,  may  bear  some  fruit  for  the  good  of  the 
sightless. 

We  find  the  following  account  of  an  African  guide, 
without  sight,  in  the  '  Treatise  on  Enthusiasm/  by 
Meric  Casaubon,  D.D.,  published  1656,  which  we 
think  it  desirable  to  transcribe  verbatim,  prefacing, 
however,  that  the  word  Arabia  is  doubtless  intended 
to  mean  the  deserts  of  Africa,  as  they  are  often  em- 
ployed by  old  writers  as  synonymous  terms  : — 

"loanes  Leo,  of  Africa,  a  man  for  his  fidelity, 
amongst  the  learned  in  the  Eastern  languages  and 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  437 

histories,  of  very  good  esteem,  hath  a  strange  relation 
of  a  blind  man  that  was  a  guide  to  certain  merchants 
travelling  through  the  deserts  of  Arabia.  The  man 
rode  upon  a  camel,  and  led  his  company,  not  by  his 
eyes,  which  he  had  not,  but  by  his  smell,  which  was 
so  exquisite,  that  having  been  acquainted  with  those 
ways  before,  he  could  find  by  the  scent  of  the  very  earth, 
nay,  of  the  sand  (which  was  reached  unto  him  at  every 
mile),  where  he  was,  and  would  describe  the  places 
unto  them  as  they  went  along ;  yea,  told  them  long 
before  (which  proved  true,  though  not  believed  then), 
when  they  drew  near  to  inhabited  places."  (Quoted 
from  Descript.  Africa,  lib.  vi.  p.  246.) 


AMERICA. 

THE  UNITED  STATES. 

When  the  census  of  the  above  States  was  taken  in 
1861,  the  total  population  amounted  to  31,445,080,  and 
the  number  of  the  blind  to  12,635,  or  1  in  every  2,489 
of  the  inhabitants ;  and  here  it  may  be  observed  that 
the  proportion  of  the  blind  to  the  general  population 
appears  to  be  less  in  the  United  States  than  in  any 
other  country.  As  the  population  of  the  Union  is  now 
about  40,000,000,  it  is  probable  that  the  number  of 
the  blind  is  above  16,000. 

About  the  year  1832  three  institutions  for  the  edu- 
cation of  the  blind  started  almost  simultaneously  into 
existence  in  the  United  States.  These  were  established 
respectively  at  Boston,  Philadelphia,  and  New  York. 
Each  in  its  turn  has  claimed  precedence,  but  the  matter 
seems  surrounded  by  so  many  questions  connected 
with  first  experiments,  and  permanent  openings,  that 
it  is  quite  impossible  to  arrive  at  the  truth ;  this,  how- 
ever, is  certain,  that  the  subject  of  alleviating  the 
misfortunes  of  the  blind  occupied  the  attention  of 


438  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

several  benevolent  persons  at  the  same  time,  and  that 
this  resulted  in  the  establishment  of  the  institutions 
above  named. 

Mr.  Perkins,  a  wealthy  citizen  of  Boston,  having 
bequeathed  a  large  sum  of  money,  and  his  mansion, 
for  the  establishment  of  an  asylum  for  the  blind,  en- 
trusted the  management  of  the  undertaking  to  Dr. 
Samuel  Gridley  Howe.  This  benevolent  physician, 
having  spent  seven  of  the  best  years  of  his  life  in 
fighting  for  the  independence  of  Greece,  and  in  saving 
thousands  of  the  people  of  that  unhappy  country  from 
death  by  starvation,  wounds,  and  disease,  returned  to 
his  native  land,  and  threw  all  the  force  of  his  strong 
and  generous  nature  into  the  enterprise  of  elevating 
the  sightless  from  the  state  of  wretchedness  and  de- 
gradation in  which  he  found  them. 

His  first  experiments  were  with  six  poor  children, 
one  of  whom  sold  fish  in  the  streets,  and  the  success 
was  so  gratifying,  that  the  Perkins  Institution  and 
Massachusetts  Asylum  for  the  Blind,  soon  received 
the  patronage  of  the  Legislature,  and  an  annual  grant 
from  the  State  funds. 

This  establishment  is  superintended  by  a  body  of 
trustees,  who  make  an  annual  report  of  their  proceed- 
ings. The  indigent  blind  of  Massachusetts  are  received 
gratuitously.  Those  from  the  States  of  Connecticut, 
Maine,  Vermont,  and  New  Hampshire  are  admitted 
by  a  warrant  from  the  State  to  which  they  respectively 
belong,  or  failing  that,  must  find  security  among  their 
friends  to  the  extent  of  about  £20  for  their  first  year's 
board  and  instruction,  and  £10  for  the  second.  After 
the  first  year,  a  current  account  is  opened  with  each 
pupil.  He  is  charged  with  the  actual  cost  of  his  board, 
which  does  not  exceed  two  dollars  per  week,  and  he  is 
still  credited  with  the  amount  paid  for  him  by  the 
State,  or  by  his  friends,  also  with  his  earnings  over  and 
above  the  cost  of  the  materials  which  he  uses;  and 
the  result  of  this  plan  is,  that  all  the  pupil's  earnings 
over  one  dollar  per  week  are  his  own. 


THE    BLIND    OP   VAEIOUS   COUNTRIES.  439 

By  the  third  year  it  is  known  whether  his  earnings 
are  more  than  pay  the  actual  cost  of  his  board ;  and  if 
so,  he  has  it  at  his  option  to  remain  and  receive  his 
earnings  or  not.  Those  who  prove  unable  to  earn 
their  own  livelihood  are  not  retained.  .This  arrange- 
ment seems  peculiar  to  the  Boston  institution,  and  its 
merits,  as  compared  with  the  management  of  other 
American  establishments,  have  not  shown  themselves 
sufficient  to  deserve  imitation. 

The  industrial  department  has  not  advanced  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  expectations  of  the  founders,  and  we 
believe  that  there  are  at  present  only  thirty  inmates  of 
the  workshops.  The  plan,  however,  was  well  inten- 
tioned,  and  doubtless  owes  its  ill-success  to  its  com- 
polling  the  blind  to  rely  entirely  on  their  own  industry, 
without  any  additional  pecuniary  aid.  Besides  the  in- 
mates of  the  workshops,  there  are  about  eighty  pupils 
in  the  school,  and  what  has  been  done  at  that  esta- 
blishment in  the  production  of  embossed  books  we  have 
.already  seen  in  the  article  on  printing  for  the  blind. 
The  same  year  that  saw  the  establishment  of  the  Mas- 
sachusetts asylum  witnessed  also  the  opening  at  Phila- 
delphia of  the  Pennsylvania  Institution,  which  has  ever 
since  held  a  high  place  among  the  schools  of  Europe 
and  America. 

As  we  have  already  said,  the  institution  at  New 
York  was  founded  about  the  same  time  as  those  above 
named,  and  we  may  now  add  that  it  is  at  present  the 
largest  in  the  United  States,  and  is,  in  point  of  magni- 
tude, the  rival  of  those  of  Paris,  and  St.  George's 
Fields,  London. 

It  is  much  to  the  honour  of  the  American  people 
that  every  blind  person  who  needs  instruction  can 
have  it  by  simply  making  his  wish  known,  and  that 
all  that  the  parents  of  any  blind  child  have  to  do  to 
procure  board,  lodging,  clothes,  mental  and  reli- 
gious culture,  and  instruction  in  a  profession  or  trade, 
for  their  sightless  offspring,  is  to  present  the  child  to 


440  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

the  proper  officer,  who  forthwith  causes  him  to  be  sup- 
plied with  these  inestimable  advantages  at  the  public 
cost. 

Without  any  exception,  laws  have  been  passed  in 
every  State  of  the  Union  providing  the  foregoing- 
benefits  for  those  of  its  citizens  who  are  without  sight ; 
and  where  the  legislature  of  any  State  does  not  possess 
an  institution  of  its  own,  it  contracts  with  a  neigh- 
bouring State  to  take  its  blind  at  a  fixed  rate  of  pay- 
ment. 

The  following  list  of  States  now  having  institutions 
for  the  blind,  with  the  date  of  formation,  and  number 
of  inmates  of  each  establishment  has  been  compiled, 
from  various  sources,  and  we  are  sure  will  be  perused 
with  interest : — 


Date  of 
Founda- 
tion. 

Location. 

Present 
Number 
of 
Inmates. 

1828] 
or    J- 
1832  J 
1832 
1845 
1833 
1837 

Massachusetts,  at  Boston  .... 

New  York,  at  New  York  .     .     .     .1 
New  York,  at  Batavia  J 
Pennsylvania,  at  Philadelphia     .     . 
Ohio,  at  Columbus  . 

155 

/200 
i  74 
185 
160 

1838 
1842 
1844 
1846 
1848 
1848 
1848 
1849 
1849 

Virginia,  at  Staunton  
Kentucky,  at  Louisville     .... 
Tennessee,  at  Nashville     .... 
Indiana,  at  Indianopolis    .... 
Illinois,  at  Jacksonville      .... 
Mississippi,  at  Jackson      .... 
North  Carolina,  at  Raleigh    .     .     . 
Wisconsin,  at  Jamesville  .... 
South  Carolina,  at  Cedar  Springs  . 

35 
65 
30 
102 
78 
21 
21 
69 
10 

THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES. 


441 


Date  of 
Founda- 
tion. 


Location. 


Present 
Number 

of 
Inmates. 


1851  Missouri,  at  St.  Louis 67 

1852  Georgia,  at  Macon 38 

1853  Iowa,  at  Iowa  City 50 

1853  Louisiana,  at  Baton  Rouge     ...  15 

1854  Maryland,  at  Baltimore     ....  41 
1854     Michigan,  at  Flint 22 

District  of  Columbia,  at  Washington  6 

1856  Texas,  at  Austin 12 

1857  Arkansas,  at  Little  Rock  ....  28 
1857     Alabama 

1859  California,  at  San  Francisco  ...  31 

1862  Minnesota,  at  Fariboult     ....  4 

1867      Kansas,  at  Wyandotte 20 

The  total  number  of  the  institutions  is  27,  and  that 
of  the  inmates  1539,  of  whom  1397  are  pupils,  and  142 
workpeople,  who  are  employed  in  workshops  at  the 
following  places,  viz. : — 

Boston 30 

New  York 60 

Philadelphia 45 

Illinois 4 

Missouri  . 3 

In  the  various  American  establishments  the  two 
sexes  occupy  adjoining  buildings,  and  no  uniform  or 
badge  of  charity  is  worn  by  the  pupils.  Although,  as 
we  have  before  said,  the  indigent  blind  of  the  United 
States  are  gratuitously  supplied  with  an  intellectual 
and  industrial  training,  and  are  also  maintained  for  a 
given,  number  of  years  without  charge,  yet  the  pupils 
whose  friends  have  sufficient  means  pay  in  full  for  the 
benefits  received ;  they  are  admitted  into  the  same  in- 


442  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

stitutions  as  the  indigent  blind,  a  sum  being  paid  for 
•each  person  of  about  £40  per  annum.  The  institutions 
for  the  blind  are  also  largely  benefited  by  legacies  and 
annual  contributions  from  private  individuals ;  but  their 
chief  reliance  is  upon  governmental  grants.  It  is  not 
at  all  to  the  credit  of  England  that,  while  the  Americans 
consider  that  the  misfortunes  of  the  blind  entitle  them 
to  greater  aid  from  the  State  than  is  accorded  to  or- 
dinary members  of  the  community,  the  English  Govern- 
ment seems  to  look  on  the  privations  of  the  sightless  as 
a  special  reason  why  nothing  should  be  done  for  them. 
We  hope,  however,  that  this  reproach  may  soon  be 
taken  away  from  our  country,  and  that  the  spirit  of  the 
Gospel  on  which  it  is  professed  that  its  laws  are  based, 
may  really  become  the  governing  principle  of  its  legis- 
lation. The  education  in  the  American  schools  consists 
in  the  study  of  English  literature,  the  mathematics, 
natural  philosophy,  and  music,  and  also  instruction  in 
various  handicraft  trades  ;  and  it  is  a  noteworthy  fea- 
ture that  blind  teachers  are  often  employed. 

Books  are  printed  in  relief  at  Boston,  Philadelphia ; 
Richmond,  Virginia ;  Louisville,  Kentucky ;  and  at  St. 
Louis,  Missouri.  At  the  last-named  place  Braille's 
type  is  used,  but  in  all  the  other  institutions  some 
modification  of  the  English  or  Roman  type  is  em- 
ployed, and  for  a  full  description  of  these  systems  the 
reader  is  referred  to  the  article  in  this  volume  on 
printing  for  the  blind. 

The  methods  of  writing  with  pin-type  and  with  the 
pencil  are  in  general  use,  and  the  arithmetical  board 
with  square  holes  and  two  pegs  is  common.  Howe's 
maps  and  diagrams,  and  the  systems  of  embossed 
music  known  respectively  as  those  of  Braille  and 
Mahony,  have  their  partisans,  and  the  common  mode 
of  musical  notation  is  adopted  at  Philadelphia,  and  some 
other  places. 

For  a  full  description  of  the  educational  appliances 
above  named,  the  reader  is  referred  to  the  articles  in 


THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  443 

this  book  specially  devoted  to  writing,  arithmetic, 
geography,  music,  etc.  But  we  may  here  state  that 
some  years  ago,  Dr.  Howe  introduced  for  the  benefit  of 
the  students  of  phrenology,  models  of  heads,  the  various 
parts  of  which  were  represented  by  embossed  letters 
and  figures  which  corresponded  with  those  given  in 
the  explanations  which  were  printed  in  relief.  Music 
is  much  cultivated  as  a  means  of  livelihood  in  the 
United  States;  but  blind  organists  do  not  seem  to 
meet  with  much  encouragement.  String  bands  exist 
in  several  of  the  institutions,  but  their  utility  is  very 
doubtful.  Pianists  without  sight  are  not  uncommon, 
but  the  tuning  of  the  pianoforte  seems  to  be  the  most 
lucrative  branch  of  the  profession. 

The  handicrafts  usually  carried  on  include  the  manu- 
factures of  baskets,  mats,  matting,  cane-work,  bead- 
work,  and  knitting.  Mattresses  are  also  made  to  some 
extent,  and  the  making  of  brushes  and  whisk  brooms 
is  largely  carried  on,  especially  at  Philadelphia.  In  the 
education  of  the  juvenile  blind  the  Americans  may  be 
said  to  have  thoroughly  succeeded,  but  in  caring  for 
adults  they  are  lamentably  deficient.  The  books  in 
use  cannot  be  read  by  adults;  those  who  are  able 
and  willing  to  work  are  unable  to  obtain  it,  and  there 
are  scarcely  any  pensions  for  the  aged  and  infirm.  A 
Bible  capable  of  being  read  by  all  classes  of  the  blind, 
constant  and  remunerative  employment  to  males  and 
females  at  their  own  homes,  and  pensions  to  the  help- 
less, are  the  most  pressing  wants  of  the  citizens  of  the 
United  States  who  are  without  sight ;  and  considering 
the  great  liberality  already  shown  in  providing  for  the 
education  of  blind  children,  can  we  doubt  that  these 
requisites  will  long  be  wanting,  especially  as  without 
them  what  has  already  been  done  is  often  productive 
of  more  evil  than  good  ?  Mr.  Chappin,  the  principal 
of  the  Pennsylvania  Institution,  Philadelphia,  has  for 
some  time  shown  such  an  enlightened  appreciation  of 
this  subject  that  we  feel  convinced  his  representations 


444  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

will  not  be  long  unheeded,  but  that  his  countrymen 
will  soon  crown  their  noble  efforts  for  the  welfare  of 
the  blind  by  enabling  him  fully  to  carry  out  his  bene- 
volent designs. 


BRITISH  NORTH  AMERICA. 

Of  the  number  of  the  blind  inhabitants  of  the  vast 
countries  included  in  the  above  title  no  authentic  re- 
turns exist,  it  is  however  known  that  in  Newfoundland 
1  in  every  1426  of  the  people  is  without  sight,  in 
Nova  Scotia  one  in  every  1 788,  and  in  Prince  Edward's 
Island  one  in  every  1880.  If  we  take  the  average  of 
these  three  returns,  viz.  1698,  and  accept  the  total 
population  as  2,663,000,  we  shall  find  that  the  number 
of  persons  without  sight  in  British  North  America 
amounts  to  1568. 

The  extreme  northern  latitudes  occupied  by  the 
greater  part  of  these  territories  greatly  increase  the 
tendency  to  blindness,  as  long-continued  snow  and 
cold  winds  are  most  injurious  to  the  eyes.  This  evil, 
however,  has  not  yet  strikingly  shown  itself  in  the 
dominion  of  Canada  and  the  adjacent  countries,  on 
account  of  the  constant  influx  of  settlers  from  Europe, 
which  prevents  the  tendencies  of  the  native  population 
from  manifesting  themselves  in  full  force,  but  even  as 
it  is,  the  influence  of  the  northern  climate  is  shown  by 
the  circumstance  that  there  are  about  three  blind  per- 
sons in  British  North  America  to  every  two  in  the  ad- 
joining United  States. 

In  Canada  there  is  a  college  or  institution  for  the 
blind  at  Montreal,  and  another  at  Toronto,  each  of 
which  receives  a  grant  from  the  Colonial  Government 
of  1000  dollars,  or  £208.  6s.  8d.  per  annum.  It  is 
believed  that  the  instruction  in  these  schools  is  similar 
to  that  of  the  institutions  of  the  United  States,  and  that 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  445 

the  total  number  of  pupils  does  not  amount  to  a  hun- 
dred. In  1870,  the  erection  of  a  building  to  be  used 
as  an  asylum  for  the  blind  was  commenced  at  Halifax, 
Nova  Scotia,  the  expense  being  entirely  borne  by 
a  benevolent  gentleman  of  that  city,  and  it  is  be- 
lieved that  the  institution  is  now  in  full  working 
order. 


MEXICO. 

To  expect  any  authentic  returns  of  the  number  of 
the  blind  in  this  unhappy  country  would  almost  appear 
as  absurd  as  to  indulge  the  hope  that  there  would  ever 
be  anything  else  recorded  of  the  history  of  the  re- 
public than  a  catalogue  of  robberies  and  murders ;  and 
we  must  therefore  content  ourselves  by  stating  that 
the  total  population  of  the  country  is  estimated  at 
7,200,000,  and  that  it  is  probable  that  the  ratio  of  the 
blind  is  about  1  in  1500,  which  makes  it  likely  that 
there  are  about  4800  persons  without  sight  in  the 
various  States  forming  the  Mexican  republic. 

During  the  short  and  troubled  reign  of  the  Emperor 
Maximilian  an  inquiry  was  set  on  foot  in  the  name  of 
the  unfortunate  Empress  Charlotte,  into  the  working 
of  various  institutions  in  Europe,  with  a  view  of  esta- 
blishing schools  for  the  benefit  of  the  blind  in  Mexico. 
This  enterprise,  however,  like  many  others  of  a  more 
ambitious  character,  came  to  an  end  with  the  untimely 
death  of  Maximilian,  and  the  distressing  mental  afflic- 
tion of  the  Empress,  and  as  far  as  we  know,  it  is  the 
only  attempt  ever  made  to  do  anything  for  the  sight- 
less inhabitants  of  the  most  Catholic  and  lawless 
country  of  modern  times. 


THE  WEST  INDIES. 
There  are  no  authentic  returns   of  the  number  of 


446  BLINDNESS   AND   THE   BLIND. 

persons  without  sight  in  the  numerous  islands  com- 
prised in  the  above  designation.  But  there  are  some 
data  of  considerable  value,  from  which  an  approxi- 
mate idea  may  be  obtained. 

It  has  been  estimated  by  local  authorities  that  the 
proportion  of  the  blind  to  the  general  population  is  in 
the  different  islands  as  follows  : — 

Antigua  and  Bermuda,  1  in  every  386 ;  Tortola, 
1  in  756 ;  Barbadoes,  1  in  883 ;  Tobago,  1  in  700  > 
and  Jamaica,  1  in  358. 

If  from  these  figures  we  extract  the  general  average, 
viz.  1  blind  person  in  every  616  of  the  inhabitants, 
and  accept  the  total  population  of  the  West  Indies 
as  3,855,000,  we  find  that  the  total  number  of  the 
blind  amounts  to  6258. 

We  believe  that  there  is  no  provision  of  any  kind 
made  in  the  West  Indies  for  those  who  have  the  mis- 
fortune to  be  without  sight ;  but  it  is  to  be  hoped  that 
although  England,  France,  Spain,  Holland,  Denmark, 
and  Sweden  have  long  neglected  their  duty  in  this 
respect,  yet  that  when  some  of  the  islands  pass  into  the 
hands  of  the  United  States  (as  doubtless  they  very 
soon  will),  the  Americans  will  introduce  the  blessings 
of  their  school  system,  and  that  the  example  may  be 
followed  by  the  professed  European  champions  of  civi- 
lization, unless  in  the  meantime  Britain  (in  anxiety  to 
repair  the  evils  of  duty  long  neglected)  rouse  herself 
to  do  something  for  her  poor  sightless  West  Indian 
subjects,  and  thus  take  the  lead  in  the  noble  work. 


CENTKAL  AND  SOUTH  AMERICA. 

Of  the  number  of  the  blind  in  the  vast  territories 
included  in  the  above  title,  the  only  mean^  of  arriving 
at  a  conclusion  are  the  slender  data  presented  by  the 
geographical  position,  and  the  physical  structure  of 


THE   BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  447 

the  countries.  Under  these  circumstances,  we  think  it 
may  be  assumed  that  the  proportion  which  the  number 
of  the  blind  bears  to  the  general  population  may  be 
taken  for  the  whole  of  Central  and  South  America  as 
1  in  800  ;  and  if  the  total  population,  is  accepted  as 
being  20,000,000,  the  persons  without  sight  cannot  b& 
fewer  than  25,000. 

For  the  relief  of  the  mass  of  suffering  and  distress 
represented  by  these  figures,  only  one  institution  ex- 
ists, which  was  commenced  at  Kio  de  Janeiro,  in  1854. 
The  foundation  of  this  establishment  is  entirely  due  to 
the  unceasing  exertions  of  a  blind  gentleman,  named 
Jose  Alveres  de  Alevedo,  who,  having  gone  to  Paris, 
and  been  educated  at  I/Institution  des  Aveugles,  on 
returning  to  his  native  land  laboured  for  three  years  in 
endeavouring  to  obtain  influential  patronage  for  the 
establishment  of  a  school  for  the  blind.  At  length  his 
exertions  were  rewarded ;  and  he  having  obtained  an 
audience  with  the  Emperor  of  Brazil,  his  Majesty  made 
use  of  these  memorable  words :  l(  The  blind  shall  not 
henceforth  be  outcasts."  The  result  of  this  interview 
was,  that  a  sum  of  £2000  was  voted  by  the  govern- 
ment for  the  foundation  of  the  Imperial  Institution  for 
the  Blind  in  Brazil.  Gratifying  as  this,  circumstance 
must  have  been  to  Alveres,  he  was  not  permitted  to 
witness  the  full  success  of  his  plans.  His  untiring 
exertions  in  the  cause  of  the  blind  had  so  injured  his 
health  that  he  died  in  March,  1854,  only  six  months 
before  the  institution  was  opened.  His  memory  is 
held  in  grateful  respect  by  the  blind  of  Rio  de  Janeiro, 
and  at  the  opening  of  the  school  an  elegy  was  delivered 
in  his  honour. 

The  institution  at  Rio  de  Janeiro  is  formed  on  the 
Paris  model ;  Braille's  system  of  reading  and  writing, 
and  other  French  methods  being  employed.  The 
number  of  inmates'  is  about  thirty,  and  if  his  Imperial 
Majesty  of  Brazil  intends  to  carry  out  his  declaration 
that  the  blind  of  his  dominion  shall  not  be  outcasts,. 


448  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

truly  he  lias  enough  yet  to  do  before  such  a  desirable 
end  be  reached. 


AUSTRALASIA  AND  POLYNESIA. 

If  we  estimate  the  total  population  of  the  numerous 
islands  included  in  the  above  heading  at  3,000,000,  and 
assume  that  the  average  proportion  of  the  blind  is  1 
in  800,  we  shall  find  that  the  total  number  of  persons 
without  sight  amounts  to  3750. 

In  many  parts  of  Australia  the  inhabitants  are  par- 
ticularly liable  to  diseases  of  the  eyes,  caused  by  the 
frequent  sand  showers  which  prevail  when  the  wind 
blows  from  the  interior  of  the  country.  These  showers 
are  not  only  directly  injurious  to  sight,  by  penetrating 
and  injuring  the  organs  of  vision,  but  they  also  pro- 
duce a  kind  of  epidemic,  which  causes  one  person 
afflicted  with  eye  disease  to  be  the  means  of  trans- 
mitting the  contagion  to  others,  and  in  consequence  we 
find  that  blindness  is  unusually  frequent  in  the  Aus- 
tralian colonies.  Cases  are  by  no  means  rare  in  which 
persons  who  have  gone  to  the  southern  hemisphere  to 
seek  gold,  have  returned  to  England  in  a  few  months 
hopelessly  blind ;  and  we  are  credibly  informed  that  in 
a  day-school  in  Victoria  several  children  have  been 
known  to  lose  their  sight  in  a  single  morning.  Sight- 
less mendicants  are  very  numerous  in  Australia,  and 
at  Sydney  blind  vendors  of  newspapers  are  common 
in  the  streets. 

About  the  year  1863,  a  school  for  persons  without 
sight  was  opened  at  Melbourne,  with  which  enterprise 
we  believe  a  blind  lady  had  much  to  do.  In  1808  a 
commodious  building  was  erected  for  the  accommo- 
dation of  the  pupils,  who  were  then  thirty  in  number, 
and  it  may  be  mentioned  that  reading  on  the  plans  of 
Lucas  and  Moon  is  practised,  and  that  basket-making 
and  knitting  are  also  taught. 


THE    BLIND   OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  449 

At  Sydney,  in  1869,  a  department  for  the  education 
of  the  blind  was  commenced  at  the  institution  for  the 
deaf  and  dumb  established  in  that  city  nine  years 
earlier.  This  school  now  contains  seven  blind  pupils, 
including  girls  and  boys,  No  adults  are  admitted,  but 
the  institution  is  open  to  the  indigent  blind  children 
of  New  South  Wales,  provided  their  parents  supply 
them  with  clothes.  The  friends  of  the  pupils  who  are 
able,  pay  £20  per  annum  for  children  under  seven 
years,  and  £25  for  those  above  that  age.  The  blind 
are  also  admitted  on  similar  terms  from  the  neighbour- 
ing Australian  colonies,  and  from  New  Zealand.  Per- 
sons of  all  sects  are  admitted  to  the  institution,  and 
the  wishes  of  the  parents  of  the  pupils  with  regard 
to  their  religious  training  seem  to  be  strictly  carried 
out.  Only  the  elementary  branches  of  education,  viz. 
reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic  have  as  yet  been  in- 
troduced, but  no  doubt  the  practice  of  music  and  in- 
struction in  simple  handicraft  trades  will  soon  be  added; 
and  it  is  hoped  that  this  advance  will  be  followed  by 
higher  intellectual  culture  and  a  development  of  the 
institution  to  meet  the  wants  of  blind  adults,  who  in 
the  colony,  it  is  probable,  are  twenty  to  one  as  compared 
with  children.  A  blind  assistant  teacher  is  employed, 
and  the  systems  of  reading  in  use  are  those  of  Moon 
and  Lucas;  and  here  it  may  be  mentioned  that  in 
addition  to  the  seven  blind  inmates,  there  are  thirty- 
three  deaf  and  dumb.  An  annual  grant  of  £450  is 
received  from  the  legislature  of  New  South  Wales, 
and  the  governor  of  the  colony  is  the  patron  of  the 
institution.  It  is  also  believed  that  the  provincial  par- 
liament has  just  voted  a  sum  of  £2000,  and  assigned  five 
acres  of  land  near  Sydney  as  a  site  for  a  new  institution, 
and  the  public  contributions  for  this  special  object 
amounted  in  1870  to,niore  than  £1300,  including  a  dona- 
tion of  £100  from  the  Earl  of  Belmore,  the  governor  of 
the  colony.  The  first  stone  of  this  building  was  to  have 
been  laid  in  1870,  and  it  is  probable  that  the  under- 

2  G 


450  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

taking  is  now  rapidly  advancing  toward  completion. 
During  the  past  year  the  donations  and  subscriptions 
from  benevolent  individuals  for  the  ordinary  purposes 
of  the  establishment  amounted  to  £556.  17s.  6d.,  while 
a  sum  of  £182.  14s.  4d.  was  received  as  fees  for 
pupils. 

THE  UNITED  KINGDOM  OP  GREAT  BRITAIN  AND  IRELAND. 
England  and  Wales. 

According  to  the  census  of  1861,  the  total  number 
of  the  blind  in  England  and  Wales  was  19,352,  being 
a  ratio  of  one  in  every  1037  of  the  population. 

As  compared  with  the  previous  census,  the  propor- 
tion of  persons  without  sight  had  somewhat  decreased, 
for  in  1851  it  was  one  in  every  979.  Owing,  how- 
ever, to  the  increase  of  population,  a  considerable  ad- 
dition was  also  made  to  the  number  of  the  blind. 


THE    BLIND   OF   VAEIOUS    COUNTRIES. 


451 


Ss  .9 


S 


I    & 


$  i 


i 


3 


g     § 

•i  -i 


fH  3 

°       I 


o 

CO  I>»  CO  rO 

rH          r-H          C^  CS 


a 


Q       •_ 

o  —  to  --0  ^T3 

PP      PQ      PP      8 


2  G  2 


452 


BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 


Ages  of  Males  and  Females  returned  as  Blind  in  Eng- 
land and  Wales  at  tlie  Census  0/1861. 


Un 
Un 

der  5  ye 
10 
15 
20 
25 
30 
35 
40 
45 
50 
55 
60 
65 
70 
75 
80 
85 
90 
,    95 
,  100 
der  100  5 

Total 

ars                  • 

Males. 

Females. 

293 
326 
443 
455 
449 
487 
556 
501 
686 
637 
621 
670 
817 
794 
903 
771 
519 
251 
54 
14 
2 

236  : 

274    : 

327 
348 
361 
321 
338 
335 
428 
408 
496 
558 
754 
847 
938 
928 
728 
336 
115 
23 
4 

9,103 

>      
>      
)      

,      

>      

:  : 

" 

;  :  :  :  :  :  : 

y                 •••••• 

J                 

rears  and  upwards  . 

10,249 

THE    BLIND    OP    VARIOUS    COUNTKIES. 


453 


The  following  Table  will  show  the  number  of  per- 
sons without  sight  in  various  districts  of  the  Metro- 
polis, the  institutions  existing  in  London  for  the  edu- 
cation and  employment  of  the  Blind,  and  the  number 
of  persons  assisted  by  such  establishments  : — 

MIDDLESEX  (Part  of). 


District  or  Union. 

Number 
of  the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions 

Number  of 
Persons 

Assisted. 

Kensington     .     . 

148 

Chelsea       .... 

63 

St.  George,  Hanover 

Square    .... 

50 

Westminster   .     .     . 

53 

St.  Martin-in-the- 

Fields     .... 

18 

St.  James,  Westminst. 

31 

Marylebone     .     .     . 

144 

• 

Hampstead      ... 

64 

1 

54 

St.  Pancras     .     .     . 

193             1 

112 

Islington    .... 

120 

Hackney     .... 

68 

St.  Giles     .... 

48             1 

55 

Strand  

36 

Holborn      .... 

35 

Clerkenwell     .     .     . 

65 

St.  Luke     .... 

49 

East  London  Union. 

34 

West  London  Union 

25 

London  City  Union  . 

45 

Shoreditch       .     .     . 

108 

Bethnal  Green     .     . 

86 

Whitechapel   .     .     . 
St.  George-in-the-East 

101 

55 

Stepney      .... 

45 

Mile-End  Old  Town 

54 

Poplar    

55 

—  '  -i 

454 


BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 


SURREY  (Part  of). 


District  or  Union. 

Number 
of  the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions. 

Number  of 
Persons 

Assisted. 

St.    Saviour,    South- 

wark  

30 

St.     Olave,     South- 

wark  

17 

Bermondsey    .     .     . 

51 

St.    George,    South- 

wark  

225 

1 

160 

Newington      .     .     . 

70 

Lambeth     .... 

150 

Wandswortli  .     .     . 

58 

Camberwell     .     .     . 

74 

1 

12 

Kotherhithe     .     .     . 

20 

KENT  (Part  of). 


District  or  Union. 

Number 
of  the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions. 

Number  of 
Persons 
Assisted. 

Greenwich  .... 
Lewisham  .     .     .     . 

Total     .... 

118 
32 

2,638 

5 

393 

NOTE. — It  is  to  be  observed  that  the  blind  persons  receiving  instruc- 
tion and  employment  in  the  foregoing  institutions  are  taken  from 
various  parts  of  the  kingdom ;  and  in  the  case  of  the  Association  for 
Promoting  the  General  Welfare  of  the  Blind,  many  of  them  live  at 
their  own  homes  in  the  country,  so  that  the  number  of  persons  said 
to  be  assisted  in  the  preceding  Table  does  not  represent  the  Blind  of 
London  who  are  benefited,  but  simply  shows  how  many  persons  are 
jormected  with  the  Metropolitan  institutions. 


THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES. 


455 


The  following  Tables  will  show  the  relative  numbers 
of  the  Blind  in  the  various  counties  of  England  and 
Wales,  the  institutions  that  exist  for  the  education  and 
employment  of  persons  without  sight,  and  the  number 
of  persons  assisted  by  such  establishments. 

SOUTH-EASTERN   COUNTIES. 


Number  of 

Number 

Number  of 

Counties. 

the 

of 

Persons 

Blind. 

Institutions. 

Assisted. 

Surrey  (Extra  Metro- 
politan)    .... 

189 

Kent  (Extra  Metropo- 

litan)     

452 

1 

6 

Sussex 

335 

1 

64 

Hampshire    .... 

401 

1 

23 

Berkshire      .... 

212 

Total  

1589 

3 

93 

SOUTH  MIDLAND  COUNTIES. 


Number  of 

Number 

Number  of 

Counties. 

the 

of 

Persons 

Blind. 

Institutions. 

Assisted. 

Middlesex  (Extra  Me- 

tropolitan)     .     .     . 

196 

Hertfordshire    .     .     . 

200 

Buckinghamshire  .     . 
Oxfordshire  .     .     '.     . 

140 
159 

Northamptonshire  . 

220 

Huntingdonshii-e   .     . 

49 

Bedfordshire     .     .--.  . 

106 

Cambridgeshire     .    •.. 

161 

Total 

1231 

Nil. 

Nil 

456 


BLINDNESS  AND  THE  BLIND. 
EASTERN  COUNTIES. 


Counties. 

Number  of 
the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions. 

Number  of 
Persons 
Assisted. 

Essex       
Suffolk 

341 
374 

1 

Norfolk    

552 

1 

36 

Total       .... 

1267 

2 

36 

SOUTH-WESTERN  COUNTIES. 


Number  of 

Number 

Number  of 

Counties. 

the 

of 

Persons 

Blind. 

Institutions. 

Assisted. 

Wiltshire      .... 

276 

Dorsetshire  .... 

209 

Devonshire  .... 

771 

3 

107 

Cornwall       .... 

503 

Somersetshire  .     .     . 

555 

2 

65 

Total       .... 

2314 

5 

172 

WEST  MIDLAND  COUNTIES. 


Number  of 

Number 

Number  of 

Counties. 

the 

of 

Persons 

Blind. 

Institutions. 

Assisted. 

Gloucestershire      .     . 

591 

1 

25 

Herefordshire    .     .     . 

154 

Shropshire    .     .     ."'»!• 

295 

Staffordshire      .    ..    '•£ 

700 

Worcestershire       .     . 

329 

2 

30 

Warwickshire    .     .     . 

470 

1 

60 

Total       .... 

2539 

4 

115 

NOTE.— The  College  for  Blind   Sons  of  Gentlemen,  at  Worcester, 
which  has  15  students,  is  included  in  this  Table. 


THE  BLIND  OP  VARIOUS  COUNTRIES. 
NORTH  MIDLAND  COUNTIES. 


457 


Number  of 

Number 

Number  of 

Counties. 

the 

of 

Persons 

Blind. 

Institutions. 

Assisted. 

Leicestershire   .     ,  '  ,• 

244. 

1 

16 

Rutlandshire     .     .     '.' 

17 

Lincolnshire      .     .*  .  f. 

388 

Nottinghamshire    .     . 
Derbyshire  .... 

360 
249 

1 

61 

Total       .... 

1258 

2 

77 

NORTH-WESTERN  COUNTIES. 


Counties. 

Number  of 
the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions. 

Number  of 
Persons 
Assisted. 

Cheshire  
Lancashire    .... 

391 
1952 

1 

6 

18 
296 

Total       .... 

2343 

7 

314 

YORKSHIRE. 


Registration  Ridings. 

Number  of 
the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions. 

Number  of 
Persons 
Assisted. 

West  Riding     .     .     . 
East  Riding       .     :     . 
North  Riding    ...     . 

Total       .... 

1181 

329 
248 

3 
1 

72 
74 

1758 

.4 

146 

458 


BLINDNESS  AND  THE  BLIND. 
NORTHERN  COUNTIES. 


Number  of 

Number 

Number  of 

Counties. 

the 

of 

Persons 

Blind. 

Institutions. 

Assisted. 

Durham      .... 

433 

Northumberland  .     . 

347 

1 

44 

Cumberland    .     .     . 

198 

Westmoreland      .     . 

38 

Total      .     .     . 

1016 

1 

44 

MONMOUTHSHIRE  AND  WALES. 


Eegistration  Limits. 

Number  of 
the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions. 

Number  of 
Persons 
Assisted. 

Monmouthshire    .     . 
South  Wales   .     .     . 
North  Wales  .     .     . 

Total      .     .     . 

210 
716 

473 

2 

23 

1399 

2 

23 

ISLANDS  IN  THE  BRITISH  SEAS. 


Number  of 

Number 

Number  of 

Islands. 

the 

of 

Persons 

Blind. 

Institutions. 

Assisted. 

Isle  of  Man     .     .     . 

69 

Isle  of  Jersey  .     .     . 

72 

Isle  of  Guernsey  and 

adjacent  Islands   . 

56 

Total      .     .     . 

197 

Nil. 

Nil. 

THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTEIES. 


459 


The  various  charitable  efforts  now  being  made  for 
the  benefit  of  the   Blind  may  be  divided  into  four 
classes,  namely, — 
No.  1 .  For  providing  them  with  education. 

2.  For  employing  them  in  industrial  occupations. 

3.  For  granting  pensions,  and 

4.  For  the  furtherance  of  efforts  of  a  missionary 

character. 

The  first  institution  in  this  country  for  imparting  to 
persons  without  sight  a  religious  and  mental  training, 
and  for  instructing  them  in  industrial  occupations,  was 
founded  at  Liverpool  in  1791,  and  there  are  now  in 
England  and  Wales  eighteen  establishments  of  a 
similar  kind,  of  which  the  following  tabular  statement 
will  give  some  useful  information  : — 


Date 
of 

Foundation. 

Name  and  Location  of  Institution. 

Number 
of 
Inmates. 

1791 
1793 
1799 

School  for    the    Indigent   Blind, 
Hardman  Street,  Liverpool  . 
Bristol  Asylum,  or  School  of  In- 
dustry for  the  Blind    .... 
School  for  the  Indigent  Blind,  St. 
George'  s     Fields,     Southwark, 

70 
52 

160 

1800 

Norwich  Institution  for  the  Indi- 
gent Blind 

36 

1833 

Yorkshire  School  for  the  Blind, 
York 

74 

1838 

London  Society  for  teaching  the 
Blind  to  Read,  and  for  training 
them  in  industrial  occupations, 
Avenue  Road,  Regent's  Park, 
London  . 

54 

1838 

Royal  Victoria  Asylum  for  the  In- 
dustrious Blind,  Newcastle-  u-T. 

44 

460 


BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 


Training  Institutions — continued. 


Date 
of 
Foundation. 

Name  and  Location  of  Institution. 

Number 
of 
Inmates. 

1839 

Henshaw's   Blind  Asylum,  Man- 
chester 

85 

1839 

1841 

1842 

West  of  England  Institution  for 
the   Instruction    and    Employ- 
ment of  the  Blind,  Exeter    .     . 
Catholic  Blind  Asylum,  Liverpool 
Institution  for  the  Blind  and  Deaf 
and  Dumb  Bath 

59 
42 

13 

1842 
1843 

Asylum  for  the  Blind,  Brighton    . 
Institution  for  the  Blind,  Notting- 
ham 

64 
61 

1846 

General  Institution  for  the  Blind, 
Birmingham 

60 

1860 

South  Devon  and  Cornwall  Insti- 
tution for  the  Employment  and 
Instruction  of  the  Blind,  Ply- 
mouth .     . 

fii  • 

36 

1861 

1864 

Blind  School,  Canterbury,  about 
Hampshire    and    Isle    of  Wight 
School   for    the   Blind,    South- 

6 
23 

1866 
1870 

Hastings  Society  for  the  Instruc- 
tion and  Relief  of  the  Blind 
Ipswich  School  for  the  Blind  .     . 

7 

Total  number  of  institutions  1  9 
Total  number  of  inmates      .     . 

946 

The  foregoing  institutions  are  all  connected  with 
the  English  Church,  with  the  exception  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  school  at  Liverpool,  but  no  exclusion  exists 
on  account  of  creed.  In  general,  persons  are  only 
admitted  from  certain  localities,  specified  in  the  title  of 


THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  461 

the  institution ;  but  in  some  instances,  such  as  those  of 
St.  George's,  London  ;  St.  John's  Wood,  London ; 
Bristol,  Liverpool,  Birmingham,  etc.,  the  pupils  are 
taken  from  any  part  of  the  United  Kingdom.  The 
schools  for  the  Blind  are  chiefly  maintained  by  chari- 
table donations,  annual  subscriptions,  and  legacies,  and 
in  general  the  friends  or  parishes  of  the  pupils  pay 
about  ten  pounds  per  annum  towards  their  mainte- 
nance. There  is,  however,  one  noble  exception,  namely, 
that  of  the  School  for  the  Indigent  Blind,  St.  George's 
Fields,  London,  which  society  boards,  clothes,  and 
educates  160  blind  persons  entirely  without  cost  to 
their  friends  for  a  period  of  six  years. 

There  may  be  differences  of  opinion  as  to  the  way 
in  which  institutions  for  the  sightless  should  be 
managed,  but  there  can  be  none  as  to  the  merit  of 
relieving  the  distresses  of  the  unfortunate  in  the  free 
manner  above  described. 

In  some  instances,  such  as  that  of  the  school  at  St. 
John's  Wood,  London,  a  small  proportion  of  the 
pupils  are  admitted  without  payment,  but  these  are 
exceptions  to  the  general  rule. 

The  education  given  in  the  foregoing  schools  con- 
sists in  affording  to  the  pupils  religious  training  and 
a  knowledge  of  reading,  writing,  arithmetic,  history,, 
geography,  and  music;  also  in  imparting  to  the  in- 
mates instruction  in  the  industrial  arts  of  basket- 
making,  brush-making,  mat  and  matting-making, 
knitting,  and  netting.  In  some  institutions  all  these- 
dcpartments  of  instruction  are  fairly  carried  out,  but 
in  general  one  special  object  is  prosecuted  to  the- 
neglect  of  others.  For  instance,  the  institutions  that 
pay  considerable  attention  to  intellectual  culture  fre- 
quently fall  short  in  industrial  training,  and  those 
which  devote  themselves  to  industrial  employments- 
often  neglect  intellectual  education  ;  and  here  we  are 
bound  to  say  that,  as  a  rule,  the  instruction  given  in  these 
establishments  is  not  such  as  the  Blind  require,  which 
chiefly  arises  from  want  of  any  settled  system  of  educa- 


462 


BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 


tion,  and  from  the  absence  of  trained  teachers.  On  this 
subject  much  could  be  said,  but  circumstances  compel 
us  not  to  enter  more  fully  into  the  matter  at  present;  we 
may,  however,  observe  that  for  remarks  on  the  educa- 
tion of  the  Blind,  and  the  principles  on  which  such 
education  should  be  conducted,  the  reader  is  referred 
to  the  articles  in  this  book  which  treat  of  the  senses,  the 
training  of  blind  children,  and  the  instructors  of  the 
Blind,  etc.  The  industrial  institutions  for  the  Blind  may 
be  considered  as  those  whose  chief  objects  are  to  supply 
work  to  men  and  women  who  have  learnt  a  trade,  and 
to  teach  industrial  arts  to  those  of  the  sightless  who  are 
too  old  for  admission  into  educational  establishments. 
The  first  institution  of  this  kind  that  existed  in 
England  was  commenced  in  London  in  1854,  by  Miss 
Gilbert,  daughter  of  the  late  Bishop  of  Chichester. 
That  lady  nobly  supported  the  institution  for  two 
years  at  her  own  cost,  and  in  1856  breadth  was  given 
to  the  enterprise  by  the  formation  of  a  society  entitled 
the  Association  for  Promoting  the  General  Welfare 
of  the  Blind,  which  Miss  Gilbert  endowed  with  the 
sum  of  £2000 ;  and  we  shall  now  proceed  to  give  a 
Table,  showing  the  number  and  position  of  the  indus- 
trial institutions  for  the  Blind  in  England  and  Wales. 


Date 
of 
Foundation. 

Name  and  Location  of  Institution. 

No.  of 
Persons 
employed 

1854-56 

1857 
1858 

Association  for  Promoting  the  Ge- 
neral Welfare  of  the  Blind,  Bus- 
ton  Rd.  and  Oxford  St.,  London 
Surrey  Association  for  the  General 
Welfare  of  the  Blind,  Peckham 
Cheltenham   and    Gloucestershire 
Home  Teaching  and  Industrial 
Society  for  the  Blind,  Chelten- 
ham                                     ... 

112 

12 

25 

THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES. 


463 


Date 
of 
Foundation. 

Name  and  Location  of  Institution. 

No.  of 
Persons 
employed 

1859 
1860 

1860 
1861 

Leicester  Association  for  Promot- 
ing the  General  Welfare  of  the 
Blind,  High  Street,  Leicester    . 
Devonport  and  Western  Counties 
Association  for  Promoting  the 
General  Welfare  of  the  Blind    . 
North  of  England  Manufactory  for 
the  Blind,  Sheffield      .... 
Liverpool     Workshops     for     the 
Blind    

16 

12 

20 
70 

1862 

Bradford  Association  for  Improv- 
ing the  Social  Condition  of  the 
Blind 

37 

1863 

Alexandra     Institution     for     the 
Blind   London    . 

55 

1865 

Cardiff  Association    for    Improv- 
ing the  Social  Condition  of  the 
Blind    . 

14 

1866 
1866 
1867 

Leeds  Institution  for  the  Indigent 
and  Industrious  Blind      .     .     . 
Stockport     Institution     for     the 
Blind,  the  Deaf,  and  the  Dumb 
Bolton    Schools   and  Workshops 
for  the  Blind      

15 
16 

20 

1867 

Preston  Industrial  Institution  for 
the  Blind  

9 

1868 

Swansea  Society  for  Teaching  the 
Blind  and  improving  their  Social 
Condition  ....           . 

9 

1869 

Newtown  Industrial  Institution  for 
the  Poor  Blind,  Worcester  .     . 
Total  number  of  institutions       16 
Total  number  of  persons  employed 

15 

457 

464  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

VARIOUS   PARTICULARS    RESPECTING    CHARITIES 
FOR   AFFORDING  PENSIONS  TO  THE  BLIND. 

As  early  as  the  year  1718,  a  gentleman  named 
West  gave  a  sum  of  money  to  the  Clothworkers'  Com- 
pany, for  the  establishment  of  permanent  annuities  to 
blind  persons  whose  age  and  condition  fulfil  the 
requirements  laid  down  by  the  donor.  This  excellent 
example  has  from  time  to  time  been  followed  by  many 
benevolent  individuals,  who  have  endowed  charities 
and  established  societies  for  a  like  object. 

It  is  somewhat  singular  that  London  is  the  only 
place  in  which  such  charities  have  been  founded,  and 
this  is  true  not  only  of  the  United  Kingdom,  but  also 
of  the  whole  world,  so  that  in  this  respect,  as  in  many 
others,  the  lines  on  the  metropolis  by  a  poet,  whose 
name  we  forget,  may  be  quoted  with  truth,  viz. : — 

"  Though,  London,  thou  hast  many  faults, 

No  city  ranks  above  thee, 
And  when  with  fond  admiring  eyes 

I  look  upon  thy  charities, 
I  cannot  choose  but  love  thee." 

As  information  connected  with  this  subject  cannot 
fail  to  be  of  interest  to  the  Blind  and  their  friends,  we 
subjoin  the  following  Table,  which  will  give  some  idea 
of  the  history  and  operations  of  the  various  endow- 
ments and  societies  that  exist  for  giving  annuities  to 
the  Blind  : — 


LIST    OF    CHARITIES. 


465 


s  -  S|K 

£  °^  & 


oa'S^goS^e 

£»«g  6  !  8  -g.g  RS  5  **j  *  J 


.  o  -^  rs  "o 

•S8-- 

•  HS*  I 

111! 


jlljjl 

1  §  I  all 


.,| 


p, 


§ 

1                 « 

•ss 

°=°             oo             o             S°             °     'a             "^o 

e^ 

^  ^             SS             "*             oo             °2             ^T? 

gg. 

"  i    1 

466 


BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 


Persons 
Assisted. 


**  s 


i 


II  3 

•SC.§ 

ill 


;. 

-- 


Q' 

T^      C 


6  ' 


"Hi.s 


il 


ll 


" 


i 


° 


467 


ON   THE   BLIND    CONNECTED   WITH    BEGGING. 

Blindness  and  begging  appear  so  intimately  con- 
nected with  each  other  that  in  the  minds,  of  many  per- 
sons the  existence  of  the  former  seems  to  indicate  the 
presence  of  the  latter.  How  this  has  come  about  it  is 
not  difficult  to  determine. 

Loss  of  sight  generally  reduces  those  afflicted  by  it 
to  a  state  of  helpless  dependence,  and  this  deplorable 
result  is  unavoidable,  unless  the  necessary  means  for 
the  amelioration  of  the  condition  of  the  Blind  be  pro- 
vided by  enlightened  Christian  benevolence,  so  that 
they  may  be  enabled  to  rely  as  far  as  possible  on  their 
own  exertions  for  the  means  of  subsistence,  and  the 
attainment  of  happiness.  Accordingly  we  find  that 
from  the  earliest  period  the  mass  of  the  Blind  have 
maintained  themselves  by  seeking  alms  by  the  road- 
side. It  would  even  appear  that  the  great  Homer  him- 
self was  a  mendicant ;  and  the  blind,  who  sat  by  the 
highway  side  begging,  were  among  the  most  frequent 
participators  of  the  Saviour's  mercy. 

Belisarius,  a  Grecian  general  of  the  sixth  century, 
is  said  to  have  begged  his  bread  in  the  streets  of  Con- 
stantinople, after  having  been  blinded  as  a  punishment ; 
and  although  the  accuracy  of  the  tradition  is  doubtful, 
yet  it  shows  the  intimate  connection  that  existed  at  that 
time  between  begging  and  blindness.  In  the  middle 
ages  when  it  was  common  in  the  East  to  put  out  the  eyes 
of  prisoners  taken  in  battle,  and  when  the  Western  na- 
tions were  suffering  from  the  dreadful  scourge  of  oph- 
thalmia, contracted  in  the  wars  of  the  Crusades,  blind- 
ness seems  to  have  reachedits  greatest  development, and 
the  streets  of  every  city  and  the  country  bye-ways  were 
encumbered  by  ever-imploring  sightless  dependants. 
The  first  organized  attempt  to  grapple  with  this  gigantic 
evil  was  made  by  Louis  IX.,  or  St.  Louis  of  France, 
who  in  1260  established  the  institution  of  the  Quinze- 

2  H  2 


468  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

vingts,  for  the  reception  and  maintenance  of  three  hun- 
dred blind  men  and  women.  This  establishment  still 
exists,  and  is  one  of  the  greatest  glories  of  Paris.  At 
the  present  day  in  France,  and  some  other  countries, 
the  blind  are  permitted  to  beg  without  let  or  hindrance, 
while  other  mendicants  are  prohibited  from  so  doing. 
In  England,  however,  the  sightless  have  no  such  favour 
extended  to  them ;  and  although  the  rigour  of  the  law 
is  greatly  tempered  by  the  humanity  of  the  officers  of 
police,  yet  very  many  blind  persons  are  committed  to 
prison  whose  only  crime  consists  in  their  preferring  to 
trust  to  the  sympathy  of  casual  passers-by,  instead  of 
being  shut  up  in  workhouses  with  companions,  who 
are  among  the  most  depraved  of  mankind.  One  of  the 
most  profitable  means  the  blind  itinerant  has  of  obtain- 
ing assistance  is  the  playing  on  a  violin,  or  other 
musical  instrument,  and  the  feelings  of  a  person  so  cir- 
cumstanced are  well  set  forth  in  the  following  lines  by 
W.  F.  Collard  :— 

THE  WANDERING  MINSTKEL. 

i. 
'*  A  wand'ring  minstrel  poor  and  blind, 

A  child  of  sorrow  and  forlorn, 
Beneath  your  roof,  O  lady  kind, 

Protection  begs  until  the  morn. 
O  bid  him  welcome  and  his  lay 
A  grateful  tribute  shall  repay. 


'  A  weary  pilgrimage  he  treads, 

Expos' d  to  danger,  want,  and  scorn  ; 
And  pity,  in  his  favour,  pleads 

For  kind  protection  till  the  morn. 
Ah !  bid  him  welcome,  and  his  lay 
A  grateful  tribute  shall  repay. 

III. 
'  And  when  the  golden  dawn  shall  rise, 

By  him,  alas  !  no  longer  view'd, 
His  morning  hymn  shall  greet  the  skies 

Upon  the  wings  of  gratitude. 
Then  bid  him  welcome,  and  his  lay 
Shall  strive  your  kindness  to  repay." 


ON   THE    BLIND    CONNECTED   WITH    BEGGING.         469 

Many  mendicants  sell,  or  pretend  to  sell,  small  arti- 
cles, such  as  boot-laces,  which  they  probably  do  to 
avoid  being  interfered  with  by  the  police.  Some  read 
from  embossed  books,  and  others  sing  about  the  streets 
in  gangs,,  and  here  it  is  to  be  observed  that  these 
partnerships  are  often  made  through  the-  attendance  at 
classes  formed  in  London  and  other  places,  with  the 
object  of  imparting  religious  instruction.  At  many  of 
these  classes  men  and  women  meet  together ;  and  this 
often  leads  to  blind  men,  who  beg  in  the  streets  for 
their  living,  marrying  blind  women,  which  eventually 
causes  both  husband  and  wife,  and  too  frequently  a 
number  of  young  children,  to  be  found  begging  by  the 
way-side.  Many  persons  who  never  had  the  slightest 
idea  of  begging  have  been  induced  to  adopt  that 
course  of  life  by  coming  in  contact  with  confirmed 
vagrants,  and  hearing  from  them  glowing  accounts  of 
the  sums  often  made. 

The  most  profitable  qualification  for  a  beggar  is  a 
faculty  of  lying,  for  it  enables  him  to  obtain  donations 
with  ease  from  persons  of  opposite  characters.  By  day 
he  can  read  the  Scriptures,  in  the  streets,  and  profess 
himself  a  thoroughly  converted  man,  while  at  night  he 
may  play  the  violin,  and  sing  immoral  songs  to  extract 
pence  and  drink  from  company  of  the  most  abandoned 
kind ;  in  short,  it  would  seem  that  without  falsehood  and 
artifice  begging  could  not  be  profitably  carried  on,  for 
it  is  notorious  that  the  most  deserving  persons  always 
prove  the  least  successful  mendicants,  and  investigation 
shows  that  success  in  this  walk  of  life  generally  smiles 
on  the  most  abandoned  and  unscrupulous. 

The  history  of  the  latter  years  of  the  lives  of  pro- 
fessional vagrants  is  a  deeply  painful  study;  the  most 
deserving  among  them  contract  illness  from  want  and 
exposure,  soon  enter  a  workhouse,  and  sink  into  a  pre- 
mature grave.  The  more  hardened,  after  travelling 
through  every  part  of  the  country,  generally  settle  at 
length  in  a  large  town,  open  lodging-houses  for 


470  BLINDNESS   AND    THE   BLIND. 

tramps,  play,  sing,  and  read  the  Bible  from  one 
public-house  to  another,  and  not  a  few  become  keepers 
of  houses  for  abandoned  women ;  and,  alas !  that  it 
should  be  our  duty  to  record  that  the  blind  villain 
often  succeeds  in  doing  that  which  could  not  be  accom- 
plished by  his  sighted  companions,  and  this  even  to  the 
extent  of  going  to  foreign  lands  fop  the  purpose  of 
enticing  young  girls  from  their  ho&es  and  country, 
who  would  never  have  believed  in  the^i  if  blindness 
had  not  imposed  on  the  poor  victims,  so  as  to  induce 
them  to  credit  fallacious  promises ;  but  who  is  to 
blame  for  the  mass  of  evil  here  disclosed,  the  Blind  or 
society  generally  ?  Doubtless  both,  but  we  think  the 
blame  chiefly  rests  on  society.  A  man,  say  thirty 
years  old,  is  enjoying  a  respectable  position  as  a 
mechanic  or  policeman,  suddenly,  from  a  cause  for 
which  he  is  in  no  way  to  blame,  he  is  smitten  with 
blindness,  his  weekly  earnings  altogether  cease,  the 
landlord  clamours  for  rent,  the  last  article  has  been 
pledged,  and  his  wife  and  children  are  starving  around 
him,  what  can  he  do  ? — go  to  the  workhouse  to  be  sepa- 
rated for  ever  from  his  wife  and  children,  with  the  tor- 
ture of  knowing  that  they  are  under  the  same  roof  as 
himself,  and  yet  he  cannot  even  speak  to  them,  or  hear 
their  kind  voices  to  cheer  him  in  his  poverty  and 
darkness  ?  No  !  To  this  he  will  never  consent ;  and 
his  only  alternative  is  the  streets,  and  into  the  streets 
he  goes,  honest  and  well-intentioned,  but  he  soon  finds 
that  timidity  and  truthfulness  do  not  pay, — temptation 
is  too  strong  for  him,  the  first  step  is  taken,  and  the 
progress  in  degradation  is  rapid.  Say,  reader,  is 
there  much  blame  to  be  attached  to  this  poor  creature  ? 
Should  not  a  Christian  community  have  reached  out 
its  hand  at  the  moment  when  sight  departed  and  said, 
"You  cannot  earn  wages  as  formerly  for  the  maintenance 
of  yourself  and  family,  we  will,  therefore,  see  that  you 
are  provided  with  proper  support  while  you  are  receiv- 
ing the  necessary  instruction  to  enable  you  to  work 


ON   THE    BLIND   CONNECTED    WITH   BEGGING.          471 

without  sight,  and  we  will  undertake,  as  long  as  you 
conduct  yourself  well,  that  you  are  provided  with  re- 
munerative employment  ?"  But  it  may  be  said,  this  is 
being  done  by  many  institutions ;  we,  however,  reply 
that  very  little  is  being  accomplished  in  comparison 
with  what  is  required,  and  much  of  that  little  is  not 
administered  so  as  to  meet  the  true  wants  of  the 
blind.  The  horror  with  which  those  deprived  of 
sight  as  a  class  reflect  on  the  probability  of  their  being 
forced  to  beg  for  a  subsistence  is  well  shown  in  the 
following  lines  by  Dr.  Blacklock,  the  blind  poet : — 

"  Dejecting  prospect !  soon  the  hapless  hour 
May  come — perhaps  this  moment  it  impends  : 
Which  drives  me  forth  to  penury  and  cold, 
Naked,  and  heat  by  all  the  storms  of  heav'n, 
Friendless,  and  guideless,  to  explore  my  way ; 
Till  on  cold  earth  the  poor  unsheltered  head 
Keclining,  vainly  from  the  ruthless  blast 
Respite  I  beg  ;  and  in  the  shock,  expire." 

How  far  the  amelioration  of  the  condition  of  the  Blind 
might  be  carried  may  be  seen  by  the  following  account 
of  the  operations  of  the  Association  for  Promoting  the 
General  Welfare  of  the  Blind : — 

"In  1853  there  were  about  30,000  blind  persons  in 
the  kingdom,  3000  being  under  and  27,000  above  the 
age  of  twenty-one.  For  the  amelioration  of  the  con- 
dition of  the  former  class  there  existed  institutions  or 
schools,  containing  about  1200  inmates.  These  pupils, 
after  being  boarded,  lodged,  and  instructed  for  several 
years,  were  returned  to  their  homes.  The  principle 
on  which  all  institutions  for  the  blind  had  been  esta- 
blished contained  two  fallacies,  viz.  it  was  assumed 
that  the  majority  of  the  blind  lost  their  sight  in  in- 
fancy ;  and  it  was  also  taken  for  granted  that  if  they 
were  instructed  in  youth,  they  would  be  enabled  to 
provide  for  their  own  maintenance  without  further  as- 
sistance. Both  these  assumptions  were  erroneous,  sta- 
tistics having  proved  that  the  blind  generally  lost  their 


472  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

sight  as  adults  and  not  as  children ;  and  an  examina- 
tion into  the  history  of  those  of  the  blind  who  had  been 
at  institutions  having  shown  that  after  leaving  such  esta- 
blishments, they  were  obliged  to  obtain  their  daily  bread 
by  begging  in  the  streets,  or  were  compelled  to  enter  a 
workhouse.  Of  the  27,000  adult  blind,  about  1000  re- 
ceived pensions,  averaging  ten  pounds  per  annum, 
from  various  London  City  companies  and  other  chari- 
ties ;  and  when  every  allowance  is  made  for  the  num- 
ber maintained  by  their  relatives,  who  are  themselves 
generally  very  poor,  it  is  evident  that  from  10,000  to 
15,000  blind  persons  were  in  the  year  above  named 
living  by  daily  mendicity  and  parochial  aid.  But  God 
was  watching  over  the  blind,  and  had  his  own  way 
for  the  amelioration  of  their  condition." 

In  the  autumn  of  1853  the  writer  received  a  letter 
from  Miss  Gilbert,  daughter  of  the  late  Ashurst  Turner 
Gilbert,  Lord  Bishop  of  Chichester,  requesting  him  to 
call  on  her,  as  she  had  been  told  that  he  could  give  in- 
formation respecting  the  condition  and  wants  of  the 
blind.  With  great  joy  he  repaired  to  that  lady,  who 
determined  to  commence  herself  to  give  work  to  the 
blind  at  their  own  homes,  at  the  same  time  requesting 
him  to  undertake  the  management  of  the  scheme.  This 
offer  he  thankfully  accepted,  and  in  May,  1854,  work 
was  given  to  the  blind  at  their  own  homes,  for  the  pur- 
poses of  which  undertaking  a  cellar,  at  Is.  6d.  per  week, 
was  taken  in  New  Turnstile,  Holborn.  At  first  six  men 
were  employed,  but  the  number  was  soon  increased  to 
ten,  and  in  December,  1856,  a  society  was  formed,  en- 
titled "The  Association  for  Promoting  the  General  Wel- 
fare of  the  Blind,"  the  more  immediate  objects  of  which, 
according  to  its  second  rule  are,  "to  afford  employment 
to  those  blind  persons  who,  for  want  of  work,  have 
been  compelled  to  solicit  alms,  or  who  may  be  likely 
to  be  tempted  to  do  so ;  to  cause  those  unacquainted 
with  a  trade  to  be  instructed  in  some  industrial  art ; 
and  to  introduce  trades  hitherto  unpractised  by  the 


ON    THE    BLIND    CONNECTED   WITH    BEGGING.          473 

blind ;  also  to  support  a  circulating  library,  consisting 
of  books  in  various  systems  of  relief  print,  to  the  ad- 
vantages of  which  the  indigent  blind  shall  be  admitted 
free  of  charge,  and  others  upon  payment  of  the  sub- 
scription required  by  the  committee ;  to  enable  blind 
musicians  to  show  that  loss  of  sight  does  not  prevent 
their  being  efficient  organists  and  scientific  musicians ; 
to  collect  and  disseminate  information  relative  to  the 
physical,  mental,  moral,  and  religious  condition  of  the 
blind;  and  to  promote,  among  individuals  and  insti- 
tutions seeking  to  ameliorate  the  condition  of  the 
blind,  a  friendly  interchange  of  information  calculated 
to  advance  the  common  cause." 

How  far  the  Association  has  succeeded  up  to  the 
present  time  in  carrying  out  this  programme  is  shown 
to  some  extent  by  the  following  extracts  from  its 
reports. 

The  Committee,  addressing  the  subscribers,  state 
that— 

"  The  total  number  of  blind  men  and  women  now 
receiving  benefits,  in  various  ways,  from  the  Society 
amounts  to  172,  of  whom  61  are  supplied  with  regular 
work  at  their  own  homes,  28  are  instructed  and  em- 
ployed at  the  workshops  of  the  Association,  and  25 
are  engaged  in  selling  goods  for  the  Society. 

"  Pensions,  varying  from  £5  to  £15. 12s.  per  annum, 
are  granted  to  16  blind  persons  who  are  unable  to 
earn  their  own  living ;  and  42  men  and  women,  in  ad- 
dition to  obtaining  occasional  employment  and  pecu- 
niary aid,  participate  in  the  educational  and  religious 
advantages  conferred  by  the  Association  on  all  persons 
connected  with  it. 

"  Of  the  total  number  of  men  and  women  employed 
at  their  own  homes  and  at  the  workshops,  4  earn  from 
£1.  Is.  to  £1.  5s.  per  week,  16  from  16s.  to  £1  per 
week,  16  from  12s.  to  15s.  per  week,  17  from  6s.  to 
lls.  per  week,  and  36  from  3s.  to  5s.  per  week. 

"  Of  the  total  number  of  persons  assisted,  about  60 


474  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

are  married,  and  have  more  than  80  children  depen- 
dent on  them  for  support.  Of  those  employed  at  their 
own  homes  and  at  the  Society's  workshops,  31  are 
women,  who  earn  respectively  from  4s.  to  10s.  per 
week. 

"  The  various  articles  made  by  the  blind  are  quite 
equal  in  quality  to  those  produced  by  the  sighted,  but 
the  blind  cannot  work  as  quickly  as  other  mechanics ; 
and  to  compensate  for  their  want  of  speed,  the  Asso- 
ciation pays  them  double  the  wages  usually  given  by 
manufacturers  to  ordinary  workpeople.  In  addition 
to  this  high  rate  of  wages,  the  Society  continues  to 
supply  the  blind  with  work,  whether  the  articles  sell 
or  not,  which  is  contrary  to  the  general  practice  in  the 
labour  market,  and  makes  great  demands  on  the  funds 
of  the  institution ;  but  the  object  of  affording  remune- 
rative employment  to  the  blind,  without  excessive 
labour,  is  productive  of  so  much  good  to  those  de- 
prived of  sight  and  to  the  community  at  large,  that 
your  committee  feel  the  expenditure  is  well  bestowed. 

"  Some  idea  of  the  amount  of  good  thus  accom- 
plished may  be  gathered  from  the  following  ex- 
amples : — 

"  '  A.'  became  blind  when  a  child ;  he  was  educated 
in  two  blind  schools,  but  for  want  of  work  was  obliged 
to  beg  through  the  country  with  his  wife,  who  was 
also  blind,  and  three  young  children.  He  is  now  sup- 
plied with  constant  work  by  the  Association,  and  the 
whole  family  is  thus  rescued  from  vice.  *  B.  *  lost 
his  sight  in  infancy,  and  was  an  inmate  of  a  workhouse 
for  several  years,  where  he  had  the  character  of  being 
generally  insubordinate.  Proper  instruction  and  em- 
ployment, however,  have  not  only  made  him  docile, 
but  have  also  transformed  him  into  a  really  useful 
member  of  society.  '  C. '  lost  his  sight  at  the  age  of 
17,  and  in  the  following  year  became  totally  deaf;  in 
this  forlorn  condition  he  was  entirely  dependent  for 
the  necessaries  of  life  on  two  sisters,  who  had  no  other 


ON   THE    BLIND    CONNECTED   WITH   BEGGING.          475 

resource  but  needlework.  His  feelings,  under  these 
trying  circumstances,  are  best  given  in  his  own  words : 
'  I  am  very  wretched,  very  wretched/  This  poor 
blind  and  deaf  man  has  been  taught  to  read  and  write, 
and  to  work  at  brushmaking,  by  which  he  now  earns 
18s.  per  week.  His  sisters  are  both  well  married,  and 
he  himself  rejoices  in  being  able  to  maintain  a  wife 
and  child.  'I).'  was  a  foreign  sailor,  who  lost  his  sight 
in  the  English  service.  He  became  entirely  depen- 
dent on  charity,  and  must  have  sunk  lower  and  lower 
had  he  not  been  rescued  by  this  Association,  which 
now  supplies  him  with  work  to  the  extent  of  16s.  per 
week.  '  E.J  became  totally  blind  while  a  servant ;  her 
dependent  position  exposed  her  to  great  temptation. 
She  was,  happily,  rescued  by  this  Society,  and  now 
supports  herself  by  the  labour  of  her  hands. 

"These  are  but  a  few  cases,  but  they  are  fair 
samples  of  the  rest ;  and  it  is  much  to  be  regretted 
that  there  are  at  present  no  fewer  than  288  blind  per- 
sons applying  to  the  Association  for  help,  to  whom  no 
assistance  can  be  rendered  for  want  of  funds.  These 
288  men  and  women  are  sunk  in  the  same  wretched 
condition  as  that  indicated  by  the  examples  above 
given;  and  the  committee  earnestly  appeal  to  those 
who  can  sympathize  with  blindness  and  poverty  to 
furnish  them  with  the  means  of  at  once  admitting  some 
of  these  poor  sightless  ones  to  the  blessings  of  honest 
industry  and  Christian  instruction. 

"  The  industrial  arts  carried  on  are  the  following, 
viz.  worked  at  by  men, — the  manufactures  of  brushes, 
brooms,  baskets,  carpentry,  mats,  rugs,  chair  cane  and 
rush-work,  nets,  bead- work,  hassocks,  and  firewood; 
made  by  women, — brushes,  baskets,  firewood,  chair 
cane  and  rush-work,  nets,  knitting,  ornamental  leather- 
work,  bead-work,  and  needle-work. 

"  The  blind  officials  connected  with  the  Society  are 
the  director,  teachers  of  brush-making,  carpentry,  and 
bead- work ;  also  a  town  traveller  and  a  housemaid. 


476  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

" One  of  the  principal  objects  aimed  at,  from  the  com- 
mencement of  the  Association,  has  been  to  introduce 
trades  hitherto  unpractised  by  the  blind ;  and,  in  pur- 
suance of  this  design,  several  new  industrial  arts  have 
been  added  to  those  usually  carried  on  by  persons 
•without  sight.  It  has,  however,  been  considered  of 
the  highest  importance  that  the  blind  should  depend 
as  much  as  possible  on  their  own  powers,  and  there- 
fore only  such  trades  have  been  permanently  adopted 
as  can  be  carried  on  without  sighted  superintendence. 
This  course,  in  addition  to  developing  the  faculties  of 
the  blind  to  the  largest  extent,  has  produced  a  saving 
in  the  financial  expenditure  of  no  small  importance, 
especially  as  the  sums  that  would  have  been  paid  un- 
der other  circumstances  for  sighted  supervision  are  by 
this  means  spent  directly  upon  the  blind. 

"  About  ten  years  ago  the  use  of  the  sewing-machine 
was  introduced  by  this  Association,  but,  owing  to  the 
necessity  that  existed  for  the  constant  presence  of  a 
sighted  attendant,  it  was  felt  desirable  to  devote  the 
efforts  of  the  Society  to  the  development  of  such 
branches  of  industry  as  could  be  carried  on  by  the 
blind  without  extraneous  aid.  The  sewing-machine 
has,  however,  been  subsequently  adopted  by  some 
other  institutions,  and,  by  the  aid  of  sighted  super- 
vision, has  been  productive  of  some  good ;  should  the 
time  arrive  that  all  the  employments  shall  have  been 
introduced  that  can  be  carried  on  by  the  blind  with- 
out supervision,  it  may  then  be  deemed  the  duty  of 
the  Association  to  adopt  trades  for  which  the  direction 
of  seeing  persons  is  indispensable. 

"The  importance  of  giving  work  to  the  blind  at 
their  own  homes  is  constantly  being  more  forcibly 
illustrated ;  by  this  plan  the  blind  are  enabled  to  re- 
side with  their  friends  in  whatever  part  of  the  country 
they  may  be  located,  and  thus  family  ties  are  strength- 
ened instead  of  being  rudely  snapped,  as  is  too  often 
the  case  where  persons  deprived  of  sight  have  to  leave 


ON    THE    BLIND    CONNECTED   WITH    BEGGING.          477 

all  that  is  dear  to  them  in  this  world,  to  obtain  daily 
bread  in  some  far-distant  town.  The  cementing  of 
social  bonds  is  highly  necessary  for  every  class  of  the 
community;  but  in  the  case  of  those  persons  who 
labour  under  the  heavy  affliction  of  blindness,  its  im- 
portance can  scarcely  be  exaggerated.  As  fully  half 
the  blind  live  in  rural  districts,  the  establishment  of 
workshops  in  large  towns  is  obviously  insufficient  to 
meet  the  circumstances  of  the  case.  Illustrations  of 
how  ardently  some  of  the  blind  are  attached  to  their 
relatives  are  constantly  occurring.  Several  cases  are 
known  in  which  persons  have  willingly  accepted  smaller 
wages,  in  order  that  they  might  be  enabled  to  live 
with  their  friends,  instead  of  being  separated  from 
them  by  continuing  to  work  in  London. 

"  Your  Committee  have  developed  the  department 
for  giving  work  to  the  blind  at  their  own  homes  as 
far  as  the  means  at  their  disposal  would  permit ;  but 
in  peculiar  instances  they  have  been  obliged  to  employ 
the  blind  in  workshops,  as  some  branches  of  industry 
require  space  to  be  successfully  carried  on ;  it  is  also 
usually  indispensable  that  pupils  should  be  instructed 
at  the  institution,  but  whenever  work  can  be  given  to 
the  blind  at  their  own  homes,  that  course  is  preferred. 

"  Your  Committee,  wishing  to  give  to  the  Associa- 
tion the  fullest  development,  in  order  that  its  benefits 
might  be  extended  to  the  masses  of  the  blind  through- 
out the  kingdom,  recommended  to  the  members  of  the 
Society  that  certain  privileges  should  be  given  to  those 
who  support  the  Association,  either  by  charitable  con- 
tributions or  by  purchasing  certain  quantities  of  goods 
made  by  the  blind.  This  recommendation  has  been 
adopted  by  the  members  of  the  Society,  and  the  neces- 
sary steps  have  been  taken  to  enable  the  supporters 
of  the  Association  to  elect  a  proportion  of  the  reci- 
pients of  the  charity,  while  at  the  same  time  the  Com- 
mittee have  the  power  to  afford  aid  to  the  extent  of 
their  means  to  the  most  necessitous  of  the  blind  ap- 
plicants. 


478  BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 

"  An  election  of  recipients  of  the  charity  was  held 
on  December  7,  1869,  when  four  persons  were  ad- 
mitted to  the  benefits  of  the  Association. 

"  Some  idea  of  the  extent  of  the  operations  of  the 
Society  may  be  gathered  from  the  following  list  of 
counties  in  which  the  blind  persons  now  reside  who 
are  supplied  by  the  Association  with  work  at  their  own 
homes  and  pensions  : — 

Berkshire.  Hertfordshire.  Suffolk. 

Cumberland.  Middlesex.  Surrey. 

Dorsetshire.  Northamptonshire.  Sussex. 

Essex.  Oxfordshire.  Wiltshire. 

Gloucestershire.  Shropshire.  Worcestershire. 

Hampshire.  Somersetshire.  Yorkshire. 
Herefordshire. 

"  It  cannot  fail  to  be  gratifying  to  the  supporters  of 
the  Association  to  know  that  since  the  existence  of 
this  institution  several  societies  have  been  formed  on 
its  model,  some  of  which  have  been  established  for 
several  years.  The  older  associations  are  situated  at 
Liverpool,  Bradford,  Sheffield,  Peckham,  Leicester, 
and  Devonport ;  and  they  now  collectively  afford  aid 
to  about  300  of  the  blind. 

"  There  are  strong  reasons  for  believing  that  similar 
Associations  will  soon  be  formed  in  other  countries, 
and  especially  in  the  United  States  of  America. 

"  The  educational  parochial  classes  continue  their 
useful  work,  with  an  average  attendance  of  114  pupils 
per  week.  These  classes  are  held  at  Westminster, 
Marylebone,  and  St.  Luke's,  Old  Street;  in  them  in- 
struction is  given  in  reading,  writing,  and  arithmetic ; 
and  the  thanks  of  the  Association  are  due  to  the  clergy- 
men who  lend  their  schoolrooms,  as  well  as  to  the 
ladies  who  read  to  the  blind  at  the  classes  and  at  the 
Society's  institutions. 

"  The  Sick  Club,  supported  entirely  by  the  work- 
people, continues  its  beneficial  operations,  and  during 


ON   THE    BLIND   CONNECTED   WITH   BEGGING.          479 

the  year  many  cases  of  illness  have  been  relieved  by  its 
means. 

"  Some  idea  of  the  financial  operations  of  the  So- 
ciety may  be  gathered  from  the  following  statement  of 
its  receipts  and  expenditure  : — 

"RECEIVED  IN  THE  YEAR  1870. 

On  account  of  Donations,  Annual  Sub- 
scriptions, Legacies,  Dividends,  etc.  .  £2948  11  11 

On  account  of  Sales  of  Goods  made  by 

the  Blind,  and  of  other  articles  .  .  40321311 

On  account  of  Pupils' Board  and  Lodging         20     5     6 

Total  Receipts  during  the  Year       .  £7001  11     4 

"PAID  IN  THE  YEAR  1870. 

To  Blind  Workmen  employed  at  their 

own  homes 734  6  8 

To  Blind  Workmen  employed  at  the  In- 
stitution and  in  out-door  official  capa- 
cities, etc 1280  13  8 

Pensions  and  Gifts  to  the  Blind,  and 
Expenses  of  the  Educational  Depart- 
ment, etc 580  17  4 

On  account  of  Materials  and  Goods 

bought  for  Sale 2531  16  7 

On  account  of  Salaries  of  Officials,  Rent, 

and  Incidental  Expenses  ....  1800  15  6 

Total  Expenditure  during  the  Year  .  £6928     9     9 

"Your  Committee,  while  desiring  to  record  their 
thankfulness  to  the  Omniscient  Giver  of  all  good  for 
the  amount  of  success  with  which  their  labours  have 
been  blessed,  are  nevertheless  sensible  of  the  heavy 
loss  the  Association  has  sustained  by  the  death  of  the 
Right  Rev.  A.  T.  Gilbert,  the  Lord  Bishop  of  Chi- 


480  BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 

Chester,  of  whose  large-hearted  benevolence  the  So- 
ciety has  had  many  proofs. 

"  The  Blind  have  never  had  a  better  friend  than  the 
good  Bishop;  and  the  subjoined  Form  of  Prayer, 
written  by  his  Lordship  for  the  use  of  the  Association, 
is  so  appropriate  to  the  present  wants  and  condition 
of  the  Blind,  that  the  friends  of  the  Society  are  earn- 
estly invited  to  use  this  prayer  in  imploring  God's 
blessing  on  the  Association,  that  it  may  be  enabled 
still  further  to  promote  the  general  welfare  of  the 
Blind." 


FORM   OF   PRAYER. 

Offered  up  at  all  Meetings  of  the  Committees  and  Members  of  the , 
Association. 

O  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who,  in  Thy  ministry  upon  earth,  didst  make 
the  Blind  to  see,  the  Lame  to  walk,  the  Deaf  to  hear,  Lepers  to  be 
cleansed,  the  Dead  to  be  raised  up  (Matt.  xi.  .5 ;  Luke  vii.  22)  ;  and, 
by  Thy  holy  Apostle,  hast  commanded  Thy  followers,  that  we  should 
bear  one  another's  burdens  (Gal.  vi.  2)  :  regard  with  Thy  favour,  we 
beseech  Thee,  and  aid  with  Thy  blessing,  our  humble  endeavour  to 
remove  stumbling-blocks  from  before  the  feet  of  the  Blind,  to  smooth 
their  difficulties,  and  to  strengthen  their  steps.  Prosper  our  efforts, 
we  humbly  beseech  Thee,  O  Father,  to  their  worldly  relief,  and  sanctify 
them,  by  Thy  Spirit,  to  the  increase  in  us  of  humility,  faith,  thankful- 
ness, and  charity,  and  to  the  growth  in  our  afflicted  Brethren  and 
Sisters,  of  patience  and  resignation,  of  good-will  to  those  around  them, 
and  of  love  to  all,  with  all  other  graces  that  adorn  the  Christian  life. 
Of  Thy  mercy,  O  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost,  one  ever-blessed 
Trinity  in  Unity,  hear  our  prayer,  and  accept  and  bless  the  work  of 
our  hands.  O  prosper  Thou  our  handiwork.  Amen. 

Lord,  have  mercy  upon  us. 

Christ,  have  mercy  upon  UB. 

Lord,  have  mercy  upon  us. 

Our  Father,  which  art  in  heaven,  etc. 

The  grace  of  our  Lord,  etc. 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTEIES. 

Scotland. 


481 


According  to  the  census  of  1861,  the  total  number 
of  the  blind  in  Scotland  was  2820,  being  a  ratio  of 
1  in  every  1086  of  the  population. 

As  compared  with  the  previous  census,  the  propor- 
tion of  persons  without  sight  had  somewhat  decreased, 
for  in  1851  it  was  1  in  every  960. 

Ages  of  Males  and  Females  returned  as  Blind  in 
Scotland  in  1861. 


Age. 

Males. 

Females. 

Under  5    

32 

38 

Between  5  and  10  
10    15. 

66. 
66 

28 
62 

15    20 

68 

48 

20    25. 

78 

47 

25    30  . 

63 

44 

30    35  

,35    40   .... 

68 

75 

52 
51 

40    45 

75 

59 

,   45    50  

83 

57 

50    55 

98 

82 

,   55    60  

93 

83 

60    65 

122 

132 

65    70 

104 

111 

70    75  

109 

147 

75    80 

75 

145 

,   80    85  

67 

134 

85    90       .  . 

34 

62 

,   90    95  

14 

27 

95   100     ... 

8 

7 

100  and  upwards  

1 

5 

1399 

1421 

2  i 


482 


BLINDNESS    AND    THE    BLIND. 


II  3 

-^ 

-*j      -*= 

-^       fl 

o3              tiO 

r^ 

a       rt 

fl       S 

O       ***   *5o 

0 

CD 

CD             CD 

CD            0 

ill 

1 

^            0 

-2      e 

O 

o        o 

g            £ 

°            f-i 

?H                 ® 

-£  M   "^ 

-S         CQ 

1     "S3 

^ 

O5           t>- 

t- 

CD     t^       O 

~»    d    <-* 

4"  jg 

0 

r& 

1           1 

1               1 

f~*           c5  O 

c3 

cS           c3 

CD               CO 

CD     "-^       ^^ 

^       'P  co" 

£H 

^H                  ^ 

r^            o 

c3      O 

50             PH 

° 

O             O 

1  ll 

ll  s 

^  5 

0 

OS 

i—  r 

•^         Oi 
CO^        CO^ 

cT     co" 

OO          i—  I 

oo       ^o 

CM          CO 
Oi         t>- 
O5          CM 

o"     c<T 

CM          CM 

IK 

c5 

6        6 

o        6 

®    :3     $ 

PH 

P-          PH 

PH          PH 

iH<?* 

Hc^ 

•*=    TJ      SB 

"^ 

t^          CM 

CO         CO 

^*—  '      £H      ^ 

I-H 

i-H          CM 

CO          rH 

s  :-i 

-g 

•S      s 

s  11 

O    173 

0 
CM 

0 

1          1 

0           0 
r*2         ^2 

1  J  g 

S 

o 

0          0 

0          0 

a    3   tg 

O      f-;      O 

| 

1              ^ 

1 

§  1 

»O         OS 

OS         CO 

||  8- 

^          "o 

^    ^ 

•  o 
£/ 

•  o    '  o 

.    2     . 

CD      -  2      ri 

^ 

sP 

^^ 

'1  '1 

^ 

60  i  s 

1 

is 

^iii 

.    CD      . 

CD   bO 
&0  * 

i  15 

I/si 

® 

nder  20  y 
stween  ^ 

lii! 

^  >*•§ 

ei-S 
g.f-1 

g 

t^pq 

PQ      W 

S 

THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES. 


483 


The  following  Table  will  show  the  relative  numbers 
of  the  blind  in  the  various  counties  of  Scotland,  the 
institutions  that  exist  for  the  education  and  employ- 
ment of  the  sightless,  and  the  number  of  persons 
assisted  by  such  establishments. 


Counties. 

Number  of 
the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions. 

Number  of 
Persons 
Assisted. 

Shetland  .     .     .     .     . 
Orkney                     .     .  " 

64 
46 

Caithness      .... 
Sutherland    .     .    '»';'.- 
Eoss  and  Cromarty     . 
Inverness      .... 
Nairn  
Elgin  (or  Moray)    . 
Banff  ....     »fl<£ 

60 
51 
119 
104 
12 
47 
44 

Aberdeen      .     . 
Kincardine    .... 

Forfar       .     .     .     ,    r 
Perth                   .     '•'"  . 

231 
23 
151 

94 

1 
1 

60 
25 

Fife           

110 

Kinross    .     .     .... 
Clackmannan    .     .     . 

Stirling    .     .     .     ;.     ;  - 
Dumbarton  .... 
Argyll      .     .     .     .  ;.; 
Bute    .     .     .     . 

9 

18 
89 
27 
118 
9 

Renfrew  .     . 
Avr                .     . 

132 
136 

Lanark     

Linlithgow    .     .  -^  •;•>•• 
Edinburgh    .... 
Haddington.     .     .^  ,_ 

484 
24 
357 
32 

1 

2 

114 
163 

2  i  2 


484 


BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 


Counties. 

Number  of 
the 
Blind. 

Number 
of 
Institutions. 

Number  of 
Persons 
Assisted. 

Berwick  
Peebles    
Selkirk     .     .     .     .   \ 
Roxburgh     .... 
Dumfries  
Kirkcudbright  .     .     . 
Wigtown      .... 

Total     ...     33 

25 

8 
3 
35 

82 
33 
43 

2820 

5 

362 

The  first  institution  for  the  blind  in  Scotland  was 
commenced  in  Edinburgh  about  the  year  1793  by  Mr. 
David  Miller,  himself  blind,  and  by  Dr.  David  John- 
ston, of  Leith ;  since  which  time  four  other  institu- 
tions have  been  established,  some  particulars  concern- 
ing which  will  be  found  in  the  following  Table  : — 


Date 
of 
Foundation. 

Name  and  Location  of  Institution. 

Number 
of 
Inmates. 

1793 

Asylum  for  Belief  of  the    In- 
digent and  Industrious  Blind, 
Edinburgh                      .     .     . 

132 

1828 

Asylum  for  the  Blind,  Glasgow 
School  for  Blind  Children,  Edin- 
bursfh 

114 
31 

1843 
1869 

Asylum  for  the  Blind,  Aberdeen 
Institution  for  the  Blind,  Dun- 
dee      

60 
25 

Total  number  of  Institutions,  5. 

Total     . 

362 

THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  485 

Moon's  system  of  reading  is  used  in  the  five  Scotch 
institutions,  but  Alston's  is  specially  supported  at 
Glasgow,  and  is  also  employed  at  both  the  Edinburgh 
institutions. 

The  pentagonal  arithmetic  board,  pricked  writing, 
and  maps  of  wood,  needlework,  and  paper  are  in 
general  use,  and  there  is  an  excellent  globe  at  the 
Edinburgh  Asylum. 

The  training  of  the  young  does  not  receive  as  much 
attention  at  institutions  for  the  blind  of  Scotland  as 
in  England,  but  this  is  more  than  counterbalanced 
by  the  excellent  parental  training  received  by  the 
children  at  their  homes. 

Music  is  not  cultivated  at  any  of  the  institutions  as 
a  future  means  of  livelihood,  but  the  increasing  use  of 
organs  in  Presbyterian  churches  may  probably  soon 
open  a  field  for  the  blind  in  this  direction,  which  will 
doubtless  be  turned  to  good  account. 

And  it  is  to  be  hoped  that  pianoforte  tuning  and 
teaching  may  also  receive  the  attention  they  merit. 
The  industrial  arts  carried  on  by  the  blind  of  North 
Britain  are  mattress  and  bed-making,  and  the  manu- 
facture of  baskets,  mats,  matting,  sacking,  sacks  and 
hair  cloth,  and  brushes;  also  knitting  and  needle- 
work, and  twine  spinning  is  in  use  at  Glasgow  to  a 
small  extent. 

Mattress  and  bed-making  are  chiefly  successful  at 
the  Edinburgh  Asylum,  but  at  Glasgow  they  are 
found  of  little  use. 

At  Edinburgh,  Glasgow,  and  it  is  believed  at  the 
other  institutions,  sighted  persons  are  employed  in 
making  many  of  the  articles  manufactured. 

A  very  large  proportion  of  the  amount  annually 
received  on  account  of  sales  by  the  Edinburgh  Asylum 
is  derived  from  goods  made  by  the  sighted,  and 
bought  by  the  institution  for  resale ;  and  this  practice 
while  it  produces  considerable  profit,  at  the  same 
time  gives  increased  facilities  for  the  disposal  of 


486  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

articles  made  by  the  blind.  The  plan,  however,  has  one 
great  drawback,  viz.  it  causes  the  superficial  observer 
to  believe  that  the  amount  of  work  done  by  the  blind 
is  much  greater  than  it  really  is,  but  this  error  might 
easily  be  prevented,  by  the  prominent  insertion  in  all 
reports,  etc.  of  a  short  paragraph  clearly  explaining 
the  subject. 

The  managers  of  the  Scotch  institutions,  unlike 
those  of  England,  founded  before  1854,  early  per- 
ceived the  necessity  of  supplementing  the  education 
of  the  blind,  by  a  system  of  regular  employment. 
The  committee  of  the  Edinburgh  Asylum,  soon  after 
the  establishment  of  that  charity,  adopted  the  plan  of 
giving  work  at  the  institution  to  those  men  who  had 
learnt  a  trade.  At  first  the  wages  paid  were  such  as 
were  usual  with  sighted  workpeople  employed  by  the 
piece,  but  subsequently  extra  money  was  allowed,  it 
being  found  that  without  such  aid,  the  blind  as  a 
rule  could  not  live  by  their  labour.  The  Edinburgh 
and  Glasgow  committees  have  of  late  made  praise- 
worthy efforts  in  this  direction,  but  it  is  much  to  be 
wished  that  the  benevolent  inhabitants  of  Scotland 
would  strengthen  the  hands  of  the  managers  of  these 
institutions,  by  affording  them  the  means  of  making 
such  payments  to  their  workpeople  as  might  enable 
them  to  obtain  the  means  of  subsistence  without  ex- 
cessive toil.  The  persons  employed  at  the  Scotch  in- 
stitutions usually  live  in  the  towns  in  which  the  esta- 
blishments are  located,  but  it  is  greatly  to  be  desired 
that  the  system  should  be  extended  to  the  blind  living 
in  the  country,  by  giving  them  work  at  their  own  homes; 
so  that  the  blessings  of  profitable  employment  might  be 
extended  to  the  sightless  throughout  the  whole  of  Scot- 
land, instead  of  being  confined  to  three  or  four  cities. 

The  women  connected  with  Scotch  institutions 
generally  live  on  the  premises,  but  at  Edinburgh  they 
have  recently  been,  or  are  about  to  be,  employed  as 
day  workers  like  the  men. 


THE    BLIND   OP   VAEIOUS    COUNTRIES.  487 

It  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  no  pensions  have 
been  founded  for  the  blind  of  North  Britain,  as  there 
are  very  many  persons  whose  age  and  infirmities 
prevent  their  being  assisted  in  any  other  way. 


IRELAND. 

According  to  the  census  of  1861,  the  total  number 
of  the  blind  in  Ireland  was  6879,  being  a  ratio  of  1 
in  843  of  the  population.  As  compared  with  the  pre- 
vious census,  the  proportion  of  persons  without  sight 
had  somewhat  increased,  for  in  1851  it  was  1  in 
every  864.  Some  idea  of  the  ages  of  the  blind  in 
Ireland  may  be  ^gathered  from  the  following  state- 
ment, made  by  the  census  commissioners  for  that 
country  in  1861,  in  their  report  and  tables  relating  to 
the  status  of  disease,  p.  45,  viz. : — 

"  Of  the  entire  number  whose  ages  were  specified, 
there  were  only  340  under  15  years  of  age;  from  15 
to  30,  there  were  1116;  from  30  to  50,  as  many  as 
1579 ;  from  50  to  70,  there  were  2310 ;  from  70  to  80 
years  of  age,  868  ;  and  from  80  to  90  and  upwards,  so 
many  as  654. 

"Dividing  the  age  period  in  this  Table  into  two 
sections,  there  will  be  found  2656  persons,  or  386  per 
1000,  under  45  years  of  age,  and  4211  over  that  age, 
or  as  many  as  614  per  1000;  the  sexes  in  the  former 
being  100  males  to  108'31  females,  and  in  the  latter, 
100  males  to  125'31  females.  Now,  in  the  population 
of  the  healthy  agricultural  county  of  Carlow,  the  pro- 
portion of  persons  under  45,  is  765  per  1000,  and 
over  45,  but  235.  And  in  the  town  of  Drogheda,  a 
similar  calculation  shows  783  per  1000  under  45  years 
of  age,  and  217  over  that  period,  so  that  so  far  as  the 
Irish  returns  elucidate  this  subject,  they  tend  to  prove 
the  longevity  of  the  blind.  At  the  same  time  it  must 
be  borne  in  mind,  in  considering  the  value  of  these 


488 


BtlNDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 


calculations,  that  the   amount  of  blindness,   whether 
caused  by  accident  or  disease,  increases  with  age." 

The  following  Table  will  show  the  relative  numbers 
of  the  blind  in  the  provinces  of  Ireland,  the  institutions 
existing  for  the  education  and  employment  of  the  sight- 
less, and  the  number  of  persons  assisted  by  such  esta- 
blishments. 


Number 

Number 

No.  of 

Provinces. 

of  the 

of  Institu- 

Persons 

Blind. 

tions. 

assisted. 

Leinster      .... 

1671 

5 

235 

Munster      .... 

2541 

2 

98 

Ulster     

1820 

2 

48 

Connaught  .... 

847 

Total  4  provinces 

6879 

9 

381 

Of  the  total  number  of  the  blind  in  Ireland,  1962 
lost  their  sight  from  ophthalmia,  725  from  smallpox, 
554  from  accidents,  41 6  from  cataract,  2 03  from  inflam- 
mation, 178  from  old  age,  121  from  fever,  110  from 
amaurosis,  47  from  the  consequences  of  child-birth,  28 
from  measles,  25  from  scarlatina,  while  no  fewer  than 
383  are  returned  as  having  become  blind  from  diseases 
of  the  brain  and  injuries  to  the  head  and  nervous 
system,  and  in  1589  cases  the  cause  of  the  affliction  was 
unstated. 

The  first  society  for  the  instruction  of  the  blind 
in  Ireland  was  commenced  in  1810,  under  the  name  of 
the  Richmond  National  Institution  for  the  Instruction 
of  the  Industrious  Blind;  and  there  have  since  been 
established  eight  other  charities,  of  which  the  follow- 
ing Table  will  furnish  some  particulars. 


THE    BLIND   OF   VARIOUS   COUNTKIES. 


489 


Date  of 
Founda- 
tion. 

Name  and  Location  of  Institution. 

Number 
of  In- 
mates. 

1810 

Richmond  National  Institution  for 
the  Instruction  of  the  Industri- 
ous Blind      

20 

1815 

The     National    Institution    and 
Molyneux  Asylum  for  the  Blind 
of  Ireland                                     • 

71 

1831 

1840 
1857 
1860 

Ulster  Society  for  Promoting  the 
Education    of    the    Deaf    and 
Dumb  and  the  Blind,  Belfast    . 
County  and  City  of  Cork  Asylum 
for  the  Industrious  Blind,  Cork 
Day-school  and  Lending  Library 
for  the  Blind,  Dublin 
St.  Mary's   Catholic  Asylum   for 
Industrious  Female  Blind, 
Dublin      

33 

98 

100 

Male     Catholic     Blind     Asylum, 
Dublin      

44 

The  Macan  Asylum  for  the  Blind, 
Armagh                               . 

15 

Institution  for  the   Blind,  Lime- 
rick 

Total  number  of  institutions        9 
Total  number  of  inmates     .     . 

381 

Of  the  foregoing  institutions,  five  are  under  the 
management  of  Protestants,  three  of  Roman  Catholics, 
and  one,  viz.  that  of  Cork,  is  of  a  composite  character. 
Moon's  system  is  generally  read,  but  the  Roman  cha- 
racter is  also  encouraged.  Appliances  for  writing  and 
arithmetic  and  tangible  maps  are  very  little  known, 
but  good  oral  instruction  is  given  to  the  pupils.  Music 
is,  to  a  small  extent,  cultivated  as  a  future  means  of 


490  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

subsistence,  but  little  or  no  attention  is  given  to  the 
higher  branches  of  education.  Basket-making  is  car- 
ried on  in  all  the  establishments,  both  for  males  and  for 
females.  At  Belfast  the  boys  make  door-mats,  and  at 
the  Female  Catholic  Asylum,  Dublin,  girls  are  engaged 
at  the  same  occupation.*  There  are  no  societies  in 
Ireland  for  giving  work  to  the  blind  at  their  own  homes, 
for  employing  them  in  "workshops,  or  for  granting 
pensions ;  and  until  these  important  departments  are 
developed,  very  little  good  can  be  expected  from  the 
operations  now  being  carried  on. 

It  is  matter  of  regret  that  while  so  large  a  proportion 
of  the  soil  of  Ireland  remains  unproductive,  no  attempt 
should  have  been  made  to  employ  the  blind  in  the  cul- 
tivation of  osiers  for  basket-work,  and  especially  so,  as, 
while  the  land  is  well  suited  for  the  purpose,  the  Irish 
osier  dealers  are  largely  supplied  from  Germany.  In 
general,  the  inmates  of  the  blind  institutions  are  con- 
nected with  the  various  Poor  Law  Unions  throughout 
the  country,  about  19  pounds  per  annum  being  paid  for 
the  board  of  each  pupil.  In  addition  to  the  establish- 
ments already  named,  there  is  in  Dublin  a  charity 
known  as  Simpson's  Hospital,  which  was  founded  and 
endowed  in  1779  by  a  merchant  of  Dublin,  whose 
name  it  bears,  who  suffered  from  gout  and  defective 
sight,  for  the  reception  and  maintenance  of  a  certain 
number  of  men  suffering  from  gout  or  blindness.  At 
present  out  of  77  inmates  there  are  49  totally  or  par- 
tially blind. 

Near  this  institution  there  is  a  bridge  over  the  river 
Liffey,  concerning  which  it  has  frequently  been  report- 
ed in  England  that  all  blind  persons  were  allowed  ta 
pass  over  without  paying  the  customary  toll ;  when, 
however,  we  visited  Dublin  a  few  years  ago,  we  found 
that  the  bridge  was  only  free  to  those  who  wore  the 
uniform  of  Simpson's  Hospital.  There  is  a  curious 

*  Brush-making  is  carried  on  at  the  Male  Catholic  Asylum,  Dublin, 
and  knitting  is  in  use  at  all  schools  for  females,  whether  blind  or  not. 


THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  491 

circumstance  connected  with  this  subject,  for  while  in 
London,  many  were  praising  the  liberality  which  allowed 
the  blind  to  pass  over  a  bridge  in  Dublin  without  pay- 
ment, which  fact  was  erroneous,  although  it  had  often 
appeared  in  print,  such  persons  were  unaware  that  a 
reality  of  a  similar  nature  existed  in  their  very  midst, 
for  the  proprietors  of  Putney  and  Fulham  Bridge  have 
for  many  years  allowed  all  blind  persons  to  pass 
through  their  toll-gate  without  payment.  And  this  is 
only  one  of  many  cases,  in  which  the  writer  has  found 
things  to  exist  in  England  that  were  supposed  to  be 
wanting,  and  for  which  other  places  were  praised  that 
did  not  possess  them. 

A  FEW  REMAKES  ON  THE  REQUIREMENTS  OF 
THE  BLIND  OF  THE  UNITED  KINGDOM,  AND 
HOW  FAR  SUCH  REQUIREMENTS  HAVE  BEEN 
MET  BY  EXISTING  INSTITUTIONS. 

To  ameliorate  as  far  as  possible  the  condition  of  the 
29,051  persons  who  are  without  sight  in  Great  Britain, 
and  Ireland,  it  is  desirable  that  the  following  objects 
should  be  fully  and  efficiently  carried  out,  viz., 

1.  Religious,  intellectual,  industrial,  and  professional 
instruction  should  be  afforded  to  all  who  need  it. 

2.  Regular  employment  with  extra  wages  to  com- 
pensate for  the  want  of  speed,  which  is  an  inevitable 
condition  of  blindness,  should  be  given  to  all  who  are 
not  disqualified  for  daily  labour  by  age  or  infirmity. 

3.  A  Normal  School  or  Institution,  for  the  training 
of  instructors   of  the   blind,    should   be   established, 
where  both  blind  and  sighted  aspirants  might  be  pre- 
pared for  their  work. 

4.  Pensions  should  be  accorded  to  those  of  the  blind 
who  are  aged  or  incapable. 

5.  And    homes    should  be    established  where   the 
friendless  should  be  received  without  payment. 


492  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

Before  considering  how  far  these  objects  have  been 
carried  out  by  existing  institutions,  it  may  be  desirable 
to  ascertain,  as  far  as  possible,  what  is  the  present  con- 
dition and  requirements  of  the  mass  of  those  who  labour 
under  such  a  heavy  privation  as  that  of  loss  of  sight.  It 
has  been  proved  by  experience  that  the  blind,  generally, 
are  capable  of  receiving  such  religious  and  secular  in- 
struction as  may  place  them  on  a  level,  both  morally 
and  intellectually,  with  their  sighted  brethren.  With 
respect  to  religious  instruction,  we  think  it  may  be  con- 
sidered that  with  regard  to  the  blind,  this  is  amply 
provided  for  in  this  country  by  the  institutions,  a  list 
of  which  has  already  been  given,  and  by  numerous 
smaller  societies  which  exist  in  almost  every  town  of 
importance,  by  whose  instrumentality  persons  are  sent 
to  the  blind  at  their  homes  to  teach  them  to  read,  and 
to  lend  them  embossed  portions  of  the  Bible,  which  are 
exchanged  as  often  as  may  be  required.  There  are  also, 
in  connection  with  the  Association  for  Promoting  the 
General  Welfare  of  the  Blind  and  the  Indigent  Blind 
Visiting  Society  (in  London),  classes  held  in  various 
places,  in  which  the  blind  of  the  respective  neighbour- 
hoods are  taught  to  read,  and  are  also  supplied  with 
religious  and  secular  knowledge.  The  persons  who 
attend  these  classes,  each  receive  3d.  at  every  meeting 
for  the  payment  of  a  guide,  but  when  they  walk  with- 
out assistance  the  payments  are  not  withheld. 

The  Indigent  Blind  Visiting  Society  also  sends  per- 
sons to  visit  the  sightless  at  their  homes,  who  read  to 
them,  and  furnish  them  with  certain  quantities  of  bread 
and  coals,  and  with  pecuniary  assistance.  Although, 
however,  the  special  religious  requirements  of  the  blind 
may  be  considered  as  being  fully  met ;  with  their  in- 
tellectual wants  it  is  far  otherwise.  To  be  kept  acquaint- 
ed with  current  events,  to  feel  themselves  on  an  equality 
with  their  neighbours  in  general  information,  and  to  have 
an  opportunity  of  satisfying  the  cravings  of  their  minds, 
for  the  acquisition  of  knowledge,  are  what  the  blind 


THE    BLIND    OF   VARIOUS   COUNTRIES.  493 

need  to  a  far  greater  extent  than  other  persons.  The 
resident  inmates  of  institutions  are  pretty  well  supplied 
in  this  respect,  but  the  mass  of  those  without  sight 
have  to  depend  on  the  kind  offices  of  poor  friends  and 
neighbours,  which  are  very  inefficient  for  meeting  the 
wants  of  the  case.  If  existing  societies  for  imparting 
to  the  blind  religious  instruction  were  to  extend  their 
plan,  so  as  to  include  secular  information,  much  good 
might  be  done,  but  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  men 
and  women  without  sight  require  to  be  made  acquaint- 
ed with  general  literature,  and  with  the  contents  of 
newspapers,  as  much  as  their  more  fortunate  brethren. 
Something  in  this  direction  has  been  done,  but  it  is 
so  small  that  the  effects  are  almost  inappreciable.  A 
class  in  connection  with  the  Scotch  church,  Kegent's 
Square,  is  held  at  Middlesex  Street,  Somers  Town, 
and  it  is  much  to  the  credit  of  its  promoters  that 
secular  reading  forms  no  small  part  of  its  operations. 
A  few  similar  efforts  have  also  been  made  in  other 
parts  of  London  and  elsewhere,  and  it  is  greatly  to  be 
wished  that  the  system  could  be  more  widely  diffused. 
Of  the  educational  wants  of  the  blind  of  the  upper 
classes,  and  of  other  matters  connected  with  this 
branch  of  our  subject,  we  have  so  fully  treated  else- 
where, that  any  further  notice  of  them  is  unnecessary. 
For  the  successful  prosecution  of  the  study  of  music  or 
other  profession  as  a  future  means  of  subsistence,  youth 
is  indispensable ;  but  it  has  been  shown  beyond  doubt 
that  a  blind  person  of  average  ability  and  health  is 
capable,  up  to  the  age  of  forty  years,  of  acquiring  such 
a  knowledge  of  certain  professions  and  industrial  arts 
as  may  enable  him,  with  proper  encouragement,  to 
provide  to  a  great  extent  for  the  support  of  himself 
and  family.  We  know  that  this  has  often  been  done 
by  individuals  above  the  age  just  named,  but  such 
instances  must  be  considered  more  as  exceptions, 
than  as  cases  sufficiently  strong  for  the  establish- 
ment of  a  general  rule.  Taking,  then,  forty  years  as 


494  BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 

the  maximum,  we  find  that  the  number  of  the  blind  in 
the  United  Kingdom  under  that  age  is  9304 ;  and  if  we 
consider  that  those  who  have  received,  and  who  are 
receiving  instruction,  amount  to  3189,  and  if  we  allow 
10  per  cent,  for  those  of  independent  means,  or  who 
are  disqualified  by  infirmity,  we  shall  find  that  the 
number  of  persons  now  requiring  instruction,  to  enable 
them  to  earn  their  own  living,  amounts  to  5185. 

Instruction,  without  subsequent  employment,  is  al- 
most useless  ;  and  it  is  therefore  of  the  highest  import- 
ance that  those  who  have  been  properly  taught  should 
be  supplied  with  regular  work,  and  receive  such  pecu- 
niary returns  for  their  labour  as  may  enable  them  to 
maintain  themselves  and  families. 

It  is  probable  that  at  the  present  time  the  number 
of  the  blind  in  the  United  Kingdom  willing  to  work, 
including  those  requiring  preliminary  instruction,  ex- 
ceeds 7000  ;  and  if  we  deduct  from  this  number  those 
employed  by  the  various  societies  that  afford  work  to 
the  blind,  we  find  that  no  fewer  than  6300  men  and 
women  without  sight  are  calling  for  employment. 

The  necessity  that  exists  for  the  instructors  of  the 
blind  receiving  a  suitable  preparation  for  their  work, 
has  been  so  fully  considered  in  another  part  of  this 
volume,  that  we  need  only  refer  to  it  here  to  include 
the  establishment  of  a  normal  school  for  the  purpose, 
among  the  subjects  earnestly  demanding  attention,  and 
to  point  out  that  of  all  matters  connected  with  the 
welfare  of  the  sightless,  this  is  the  one  most  urgently 
demanding  the  support  of  the  Legislature.  The  number 
of  the  blind  in  the  United  Kingdom  who  at  present 
require  or  receive  pensions  is  probably  about  17,000  ; 
but  it  would  not  have  been  by  any  means  as  large  if 
those  who  lost  their  sight  before  the  age  of  forty  years 
had  obtained  proper  instruction  and  subsequent  re- 
munerative employment. 

The  number  at  present  receiving  pensions  of  various 
sums  is  about  2000,  which  leaves  about  15,000  who  need 


THE    BLIND    OP   VARIOUS    COUNTRIES.  495 

but  cannot  obtain  assistance  of  this  kind.  It  must  be, 
however,  observed  that  the  amount  known  to  be  annu- 
ally distributed  as  pensions  only  gives  an  average  of  £9 
per  head,  whereas  a  pension  really  to  effect  the  object 
sought,  namely,  to  keep  the  recipient  from  seeking  alms, 
or  entering  a  workhouse,  should  not  be  less  than  £26  a 
year.  Although  it  is  desirable  to  connect  the  blind  with 
their  families, andto do  everythingpossible  to  strengthen 
social  ties,  yet  there  are  many  cases  in  which  those 
suffering  from  loss  of  sight  are  so  utterly  helpless  and 
without  friends,  that  an  asylum  where  they  can  be  re- 
ceived and  cared  for  for  life,  is  the  only  thing  that 
meets  their  condition.  The  number  actually  needing 
such  help,  and  to  whom  any  other  means  of  assist- 
ance would  be  inappropriate,  is  not  very  large,  but 
still  sufficiently  so  to  merit  attention,  and  especially 
as  the  institutions  where  persons  are  received  for  life 
do  not  accommodate  more  than  300  inmates,  which  is 
not  by  any  means  equal  to  the  requirements  of  the 


497 


APPENDIX. 


The  following  account,  taken  from  the  '  Family  Herald '  of 
Nov.  19,  1864,  strikingly  shows  how  in  Germany  persons  have 
been  blinded  for  purposes  of  begging. 

THE    BLIND    PEINCESS. 

The  blind  young  Princess  of was  lately  presented  to 

the  Empress  Eugenie  at  Schwalbach,  and  the  utmost  interest 
and  sympathy  were  excited  by  her  story.  The  lady  is  well 
known  all  over  Germany,  and  her  princely  domain  is  visited 
every  year  by  crowds  of  strangers. 

The  story  of  this  young  princess  is  perhaps  the  most  touching 
romance  of  the  nineteenth  century.  As  a  child  she  had  been 
stolen  from  the  gardens  of  the  very  chateau  she  now  inhabits. 
A  careless  nurse,  bent  on  her  own  enjoyment,  had  suffered  her 
master's  child  to  stray  towards  the  river,  and  when,  in  answer 
to  the  frantic  appeals  and  the  search  made  in  every  direction, 
no  signs  of  the  infant's  presence  could  be  discovered,  it  was 
concluded  she  had  fallen  into  the  river  and  been  drowned.  The 
despair  of  the  mother  was  beyond  all  description ;  but  the  idea 
of  the  child's  death,  accepted  by  all  besides,  was  rejected  en- 
tirely by  her.  When  the  death  of  the  prince,  her  husband,  had 
released  her  from  the  obligation  to  remain  in  the  chateau,  she  set 
out  upon  a  strange  pilgrimage  all  over  the  Continent,  fully  con- 
vinced that  she  should  find,  one  day  or  other,  the  object  of  her 
search.  During  the  embassy  of  Prince  Talleyrand  she  came  to 
London,  and  was  received  by  Queen  Adelaide  with  the  utmost 
kindness  and  sympathy.  Soon  afterwards  she  went  to  the 
south,  still  bent  on  finding  her  lost  child. 

One  day,  the  carriage  climbing  slowly  up  one  of  the  steep 

2  K 


498  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

hills  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Lausanne,  the  bereaved  mother 
was  accosted  by  a  beggar  woman,  holding  by  the  hand  a  poor 
blind  girl,  for  whom  she  was  imploring  alms.  The  girl  looked 
gentle  and  sweet-tempered,  resembling  in  no  way  the  harsh 
vixen  whom  she  called  mother.  The  inmate  of  the  carriage  had 
fallen  into  a  doze,  and  the  woman  bade  the  girl  sing  to  arouse 
the  lady.  The  song  was  a  vulgar  ditty  belonging  to  the  dis- 
trict, with  no  romance  to  ensure  attention,  yet  it  woke  the  lady, 
and  she  stopped  the  postilion  while  she  questioned  the  girl  as 
to  her  origin.  The  day  and  hour  were  come  at  last;  every 
word  uttered  by  the  maiden  confirmed  the  suspicion  of  identity. 
Memory  was  confused, — it  had  vanished  with  her  sight ;  but  by 
dint  of  threats  and  promises  the  woman  was  made  to  confess 
that  she  had  purchased  the  girl  when  quite  an  infant  from  a 
beggar  woman  like  herself,  who  owned  to  have  deprived  her  of 
sight  in  order  to  excite  compassion.  The  locality  whence  the 
child  had  been  taken  was  proof  sufficient  of  the  truth. 

The  mother  returned  home  with  her  poor  blind  child  and 
devoted  her  whole  life  to  the  prospect  of  cure,  as  she  had  done 
before  to  that  of  discovery.  But  all  attempts  failed,  and  she 
then  gave  herself  up  entirely  to  the  education  of  her  helpless 
charge.  In  this  she  succeeded  perfectly,  and  the  princess  is 
considered  one  of  the  most  accomplished  reciters  of  Uhland  and 
Schiller  in  all  Germany.  Before  dying,  the  fond  mother  reaped 
her  reward  in  the  marriage  of  her  daughter  with  the  young 
prince,  her  nephew,  and  this  consolation  is  the  greatest  which 
could  be  felt  by  her  friends.  The  young  princess,  on  the  visit 
to  the  Empress,  recited,  with  the  most  exquisite  clearness  and 
pathos,  two  scenes  from  "  Count  Egmont"  and  "  The  Diver," 
while  the  imperial  lady  listened  entranced,  the  large  tears  roll- 
ing down  her  cheeks  as  she  gazed  on  the  wreck  which  the  wick- 
edness and  cupidity  of  man  had  made  of  one  of  the  most  beauti- 
ful works  of  God's  creation. 


Extracts  from  a  poem  by  James  Downing,  who  lost  his  sight 
from  ophthalmia,  while  serving  in  Egypt,  in  1801,  as  a  private 
in  the  20th  Regiment  of  the  Line,  under  Sir  Ralph  Abercrombie. 

The  following  verses,  although  rude  in  composition,  yet  illus- 
trate so  well  what  must  have  been  the  feelings  and  position  of 
many  of  those  who  lost  their  sight  from  Egyptian  ophthalmia 
that  it  is  thought  desirable  to  insert  them  in  this  place. 

The  writer  says : — 

"  Our  able  men  were  all  employ 'd, 
Relieving  every  day, 


APPENDIX.  499 

The  French  from  Alexandria, 
That  they  might  go  to  sea. 

"  The  second  day  it  was  my  lot, 

Which  burden  was  not  hard, 
To  take  the  dinners  to  our  men, 
Who  were  that  day  on  guard. 

"  'Tis  true  the  sun  shone  very  hot, 

The  sand  reflected  white ; 
But  I  had  not  a  single  thought 
That  I  should  lose  my  sight. 

"  As  I  drew  near  the  city  gates, 
While  viewing  of  the  walls, 
A  blast  of  wind  blew  in  my  eyes, 
Which  seemed  like  burning  coals. 

"  Immediately  I  felt  a  pain, 
In  one  or  both  my  eyes ; 
This  very  much  discouraged  me, 
And  filled  me  with  surprise. 

"  That  I  should  lose  my  eyesight  now 

Was  much  upon  my  mind, 
As  many  of  my  countrymen 
Had  lately  been  struck  blind. 

"  The  water  gushed  from  my  eyes, 

The  inflammation  strong, 
The  sun  shone  bright,  so  that  I  scarce 
Could  find  my  way  along. 

"  When  I  arrived  at  the  place, 
The  soldiers  saw  my  state, 
And  wished  that  I  might  get  relief 
Before  it  was  too  late. 

"  But  when  I  came  again  to  camp, 

My  pain  was  very  great, 
One  eye  was  swelled  very  much, 
And  in  a  constant  heat. 

"  I  waited  on  a  surgeon  then, 
The  nearest  to  that  place, 
But  who,  I  since  had  cause  to  think, 
Was  ign'rant  of  my  case. 

2  K  2 


500  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

"  From  him  I  could  get  no  relief; 

Thus  in  this  wretched  plight 
I  then  returned  to  my  tent, 
And  spent  a  mournful  night. 

"  How  glad  was  I  when  morning  came, 

As  you  might  well  suppose ! 
But  by  this  time  the  other  eye 
Had  taken  the  disease. 

"  The  sergeant  soon  came  by,  and  call'd 

The  blind  from  every  tent, 
Then  we  took  hold  each  other's  coats, 
And  to  the  doctor's  went. 

"  The  doctor  having  view'd  my  case, 

Order'd  me  instantly 
To  go  into  the  hospital, 
With  which  I  did  comply. 

"  Five  blisters  I  must  have  appli'd 

About  my  head  and  eyes, 
But  what  did  more  augment  my  pain, 
The  place  so  swarmed  with  flies. 

"  In  order  to  afford  relief 

Experiments  were  tri'd, 
Large  poultices  and  likewise  drops 
Were  frequently  appli'd. 

"  But  these  prov'd  ineffectual 

My  eyesight  to  restore, 
And  sometimes  I  had  painful  thoughts 
That  I  should  see  no  more. 

"  Thus  sev'ral  days  and  weeks  I  spent, 

Eack'd  with  distressing  pain, 
And  scarcely  thought  it  possible 
I  should  my  sense  retain. 

"  Oft  have  I  wish'd  that  some  one  would, 

With  pistol,  sword,  or  knife, 
In  order  to  relieve  my  pain, 
Cut  short  my  wretched  life. 

"  But  blessed  be  the  God  of  Love, 
Who  did  not  at  this  time, 


APPENDIX.  501 


In  answer  to  my  rash  request, 
Cut  me  off  in  iny  prime. 

*  *  *  * 

"  When  we  at  Greenwich  safe  arriv'd, 

We  cast  our  anchors  there, 

Into  the  barges  we  were  sent, 

And  forward  we  did  steer. 

"  As  night  was  coming  on  apace, 

Each  one  bound  up  their  eyes  ; 
We  sailed  under  London  Bridge, 
And  Westminster  likewise. 

"Between  the  hours  of  twelve  and  one 

We  reach'd  the  destin'd  shore, 
When  I  with  care  was  help'd  thereon, 
To  cross  the  seas  no  more. 

"  Some  men  came  down  to  our  relief, — 

I  thought  this  look'd  well,— 
In  order  to  conducj  us  safe 
To  Chelsea  Hospital. 

"  The  men  conducted  us  with  care, 

And  led  us  to  the  place  ; 
The  kindness  I  received  there, 
Time  cannot  well  erase. 

"  Each  being  seated  on  a  bed, 

We  thought  that  we  were  blest, 
And  when  we  had  refresh'd  ourselves, 
We  all  retir'd  to  rest. 

"  Thus  having  gain'd  refreshing  sleep, 

When  call'd  and  bid  to  rise, 
We  scarcely  knew  where  we  were  got, 
Which  filled  us  with  surprise. 

'  O  how  desirable  is  rest, 
Upon  the  sea  or  land  ! 
Those  who  support  a  place  like  this 
Our  warmest  thanks  demand. 

"  Here  I  was  us'd  as  well  as  man 

Could  ever  wish  to  be, 
Yea,  all  of  us  were  treated  with 
Great  hospitality. 


502  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

"  We  asked  when  we  should  go  home, 

They  answered  very  soon, 
And  told  us  we  should  pass  the  board 


"  This  was  the  Monday  following, 

When  many  of  the  blind 
Were  led  from  Chelsea  to  the  place, 
By  men  who  acted  kind. 

"  The  people  stood  and  pitied  us, 

As  very  well  they  might ; 
Yea.  some  of  the  nobility 
Were  moved  at  the  sight. 

"  Their  kindness  to  us  they  made  known,. 

Our  case  they  did  lament, 
When  money,  with  some  handkerchiefs, 
They  did  to  us  present. 

"  Thus  being  treated  with  respect, 

This  did  relief  affor* 
We  thank'd  them  kindly  for  the  samer 
Then  went  and  pass'd  the  board. 

"  A  pension  they  allowed  us, 
Which  satisfied  us  well ; 
Then  we  were  all  conducted  back 
Into  the  hospital. 

"  The  Duke  of  York,  whose  kindness  then 

I  always  shall  revere, 
He  acted  like  a  soldier's  friend, 
And  with  a  parent's  care  ! 

"All  our  accounts  were  settled  up, 

And  every  man  was  paid, 
And  the  expense  for  riding  home, 
Our  Government  defraid. 

"  In  the  road  waggon  I  was  book'd, 

And  one  pound  six  was  paid, 
In  order  that  I  might  with  care, 
Be  to  my  home  convey'd. 

"  About  the  hour  of  twelve  o'clock, 
For  Cornwall  I  set  out, 


APPENDIX.  503 


"With  six  blind  passengers  beside, 
All  taking  the  same  rout. 

I  was  eight  nights  upon  the  road, 

Which  much  fatigued  me, 
Before  I  reach'd  the  long  sought  place, 

Of  my  nativity." 


THE  OPHTHALMOSCOPE   AND  KEMAKKABLE  INSTANCES 
OF  THE  EECOVEBY  OF  SIGHT. 

In  that  tiny  looking-glass,  the  ophthalmoscope,  the  medical  pro- 
fession possess  a  precious  agent  in  the  cure  of  diseases  of  the  eye. 
Before  this  invention  enabled  the  surgeon  to  see  into  the  whole  of 
the  interior  of  the  eye,  and  thus  to  become  visually  acquainted 
with  every  feature  of  the  disease,  the  methods  of  treatment  of  the 
subtle  and  manifold  forms  of  eye-diseases  were  necessarily  most 
imperfect.  We  will  give  an  instance  of  the  great  benefit  which 
the  ophthalmoscope  is  capable  of  conferring.  An  aged  woman 
took  her  grandchild  to  the  London  Ophthalmic  Hospital,  to  be 
treated  for  some  affection  of  the  eyes.  The  child  was  attended 
to,  and  the  woman  about  to  depart  with  it,  when  she  said  she 
supposed  the  gentleman  could  not  do  anything  for  her  eyes.  She 
said  that  when  about  two  years  of  age  a  fork  had  been  run  into 
her  left  eye,  that  cataract  had  followed  the  injury,  and  she  be- 
came blind  in  that  eye.  A  country  surgeon  had  operated  on  her 
for  cataract,  but  the  sight  of  the  eye  never  returned.  Mr. 
Wordsworth  examined  the  eye  by  means  of  the  ophthalmoscope, 
and  discovered  that  a  little  membrane  obscuring  the  retina  had 
not  been  removed  at  the  original  operation,  and  that  its  pre- 
sence had  caused  the  blindness. 

The  old  lady  now  submitted  to  have  this  obstruction  removed, 
and  she  regained  the  precious  sight  of  which  she  had  been  de- 
prived for  nearly  seventy  years.  The  restoration  of  vision  was 
most  opportune,  for,  with  advancing  years,  a  cataract  was  form- 
ing in  the  right  eye,  which  would  have  totally  deprived  her  of 
sight  in  a  month  or  two. 

In  a  letter  to  the  '  Globe,'  Dr.  Kidd  mentions  the  following 
instance  of  the  restoration  of  sight  in  a  young  woman  born 
blind.  He  says, — 

"  I  saw  individually,  and  observed  with  interest,  the  following 
case,  a  short  time  ago,  at  the  Eye  Institution,  Moorfields, — a 
case  that  would  be  invaluable  to  Berkeley,  as  bearing  on  the 


504  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

part  played  by  the  senses  in  intellect.  An  interesting-looking 
young  woman,  twenty-two  years  of  age,  born  stone-blind — partly 
educated  in  the  family  of  a  clergyman,  all  this  time  by  finger 
alphabets,  as  we  see  blind  men  tracing  the  letters  in  one  or  two 
places  in  town — blind  for  twenty-two  years — was  restored  to 
perfect  vision  in  four  days  by  a  surgical  operation,  and  to  partial 
vision  in  two  minutes.  This  young  woman,  in  an  instant,  having 
been  twenty -two  years,  and  from  her  birth  stone-blind  of  con- 
genital cataract,  began  to  see,  as  these  deaf  mutes  in  Paris  begin 
to  hear  for  the  first  time.  The  effect  in  the  young  woman  was 
most  curious,  and  something  of  this  kind.  She  saw  everything, 
but  there  was  no  idea  whatever  of  perspective.  She  put  her 
hand  to  the  window  to  try  to  catch  the  trees  on  the  other  side  of 
the  street,  then  in  Moorfields,  she  tried  to  touch  the  ceiling  of  a 
high  ward  ;  she  was  utterly  ignorant,  also,  of  common  things — 
what  such  things  as  a  bunch  of  keys  were,  of  a  silver  watch,  or 
a  common  cup  and  saucer  ;  but  when  she  shut  her  eyes  and  was 
allowed  to  touch  them  (the  educated  sense)  she  told  them  at 
once !  She  could  almost  distinguish  the  greasy  feel  of  a  silver 
half-crown  from  the  cold,  dry,  harsh  feel  of  a  copper  penny. 
Her  joy  was  excessive  when  shown  some  mignonette  and  sweet- 
pea  that  one  of  the  surgeons  had  accidentally  in  his  coat,  for  it 
seemed  she  knew  all  the  plants  in  the  clergyman's  garden  by  the 
touch  and  smell!  She  looked  at  the  bunch  of  keys,  and  with 
equal  blankness  at  the  flowers,  then  shut  her  eyes  so  as  to  re- 
cognize them  ;  all  this  took  up  less  than  five  minutes-  But  she 
failed  to  say,  as  well  as  I  now  remember  the  case,  '  These  are 
flowers.'  But  on  my  saying,  when  she  opened  her  eyes  again, 
'  Why  these  are  flowers.'  '  Oh !  so  they  are,'  she  replied,  shutting 
her  eyes  again  quickly,  and  putting  them  to  her  nose.  '  This  is 
mignonette,' "  etc. 


THE  HISTORY  OF  SPECTACLES. 

That  the  ancients  had  no  knowledge  of  glasses  for  assisting 
impaired  sight,  we  may  conclude  from  their  universal  silence  on 
this  matter  ;  the  only  relief  they  had  in  such  cases  being  certain 
collyria  or  eye-salves.  We  are  also  told  that  old  men  among  the 
classical  ancients  read  through  a  simple  tube,  which,  by 
isolating  objects,  made  vision  more  distinct.  Ten  centuries  of 
obscurity  intervene,  until  the  Arabians  begin  to  cultivate  the 
learning  of  the  Greeks,  when  several  of  their  philosophers  re- 
sumed the  study  of  optics.  The  earliest  of  their  works  which 
has  reached  us  is  the  celebrated  treatise  of  Al  Hassan,  a  dis- 
tinguished mathematician,  who  died  A.D.  1038.  Jt  was  trans- 


APPENDIX.  505 

lated  from  the  Arabic  into  Latin  by  Hisneir,  and  was  published 
under  the  title  of  "  Opticse  Thesaurus."  In  it  he  notices  the 
magnifying  power  of  segments  of  spheres  of  glass,  a  hint  from 
which  it  is  supposed  by  many  that  the  invention  of  spectacles 
originated. 

In  the  writings  of  the  renowned  and  learned  friar,  Roger 
Bacon,  the  following  passage  occurs  : — "  A  plano-convex  glass 
is  useful  to  old  men,  as  well  as  to  those  who  have  weak  eyes  ; 
for  they  may  see  the  smallest  letter  sufficiently  magnified." 
That  spectacles  are  alluded  to  there  can  be  no  doubt ;  but  that 
the  idea  originated  with  him — as  maintained  by  several — is  by 
no  means  so  clear.  However,  it  is  quite  certain  that  they  were 
known  and  used  about  the  time  of  his  death,  which  occurred  in 
the  year  1292. 

Alexander  D'Spina,  a  native  of  Pisa,  who  died  in  1313, 
having  seen  a  pair  of  spectacles  made  by  a  contemporary,  a 
Florentine  nobleman  named  Salvino  Armati,  who  was  unwilling 
to  communicate  the  secret  of  their  construction,  had  a  pair 
made  for  himself,  and  found  them  so  useful  that  he  cheerfully 
made  the  invention  public.  Dominic  Maria  Manni,  an  Italian 
writer  of  eminence,  also  attributes  to  Armati  the  credit  of  being 
the  originator.  A  person,  rejoicing  in  the  name  of  Spoon,  fixes 
the  date  of  the  invention  between  the  years  1280  and  1311. 
Signer  Eedi,  from  whom  Spoon  quotes  the  preceding  fact, 
states  that  he  possessed  a  manuscript,  written  in  1299,  in  which 
the  author  says,  "  I  found  myself  so  pressed  by  age  that  I 
can  neither  read  nor  write  without  these  glasses  they  call  spec- 
tacles, lately  invented,  to  the  great  advantage  of  poor  old  men 
when  their  sight  grows  weak." 

The  learned  Du  Cange,  who  died  in  1688,  carries  the  inven- 
tion further  back,  assuring  us  that  there  is  a  manuscript  in  the 
French  King's  Library,  which  shows  that  spectacles  were  used 
in  Constantinople  in  the  year  1150 ;  nevertheless,  it  is  stated  in 
the  Italian  Dictionary  —  Delia  Crusca  —  that  Friar  Jordan 
Hivalta,  of  Pisa,  told  his  hearers,  in  a  sermon  preached  in  1305, 
that  "  it  was  not  twenty  years  since  the  art  of  making  spec- 
tacles was  found  out,  and  is,  indeed,  one  of  the  best  and  most 
necessary  inventions  in  the  world."  This  would  place  the  in- 
vention in  1285. 

Bernard  Gordon,  a  celebrated  physician  of  Montpelier,  in  his 
"  Lilium  Medicinse,"  published  in  1305,  recommends  an  eye- 
salve  as  "  capable  of  making  the  patient  read  the  smallest  let- 
ters without  spectacles  ;  "  and  Muschenbroek  informs  us  that 
it  is  inscribed  on  the  tomb  of  Salvino  Armati  (to  whom  we  have 
already  referred),  that  he  was  "  the  inventor  of  spectacles." 
He  died  in  1317. 

In  legal  parlance  we  have  now  "  stated  our  case  ; "  but  the 


506  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

evidence  is  so  conflicting  that  we  must  repeat  our  inability  to 
solve  the  question  which  forms  the  caption  of  this  article. 
However,  before  we  close,  we  would  refer  to  the  very  general 
use  of  "  glasses  "  within  the  last  few  years  (particularly  by 
young  ladies),  which  has  been  a  source  of  much  ill-natured 
comment.  We  presume  that  it  is  the  revival  of  an  old  but 
injurious  custom  that  prevailed  about  the  middle  of  the  last 
century  at  Madrid,  and  especially  at  Venice — where  spectacles 
were  worn  by  persons  who  had  no  occasion  whatever  for  their 
use.  "  All  the  people  of  fashion  and  quality,"  observes  Vign. 
De  Mary,  "had  them  continually  on  their  noses,  a  folly  that 
had  its  source  in  the  natural  pride  of  those  who  value  them- 
selves on  a  profound  wisdom,  and  aflect  to  stare  very  near  at 
everything,  as  if  their  eyes  were  weakened  and  worn  out  with 
excess  of  attention." — From  the  'New  York  Some  Journal.' 


THE  BLIND  B05T  AT  PLAY. 

The  blind  boy's  been  at  play,  mother, 

And  merry  games  we  had  ; 
We  led  him  on  our  way,  mother, 

And  every  step  was  glad. 
But  when  we  found  a  starry  flower, 

And  praised  its  varied  hue, 
A  tear  came  trembling  down  his  cheek, 

Just  like  a  drop  of  dew. 

We  took  him  to  the  mill,  mother, 

Where  falling  waters  made 
A  rainbow  o'er  the  rill,  mother, 

As  golden  sun-rays  played  ; 
But  when  we  shouted  at  the  scene, 

And  hailed  the  clear  blue  sky, 
He  stood  quite  still  upon  the  bank, 

And  breathed  a  long,  long  sigh. 

;  We  asked  him  why  he  wept,  mother, 

Whene'er  we  found  the  spots 
Where  periwinkle  crept,  mother, 

O'er  wild  forget-me-nots  : 
'Ah  me !'  he  said,  while  tears  ran  down 

As  fast  as  summer  showers, 
'  It  is  because  I  cannot  see 

The  sunshine  and  the  flowers.' 


507 


Oh,  that  poor  sightless  boy,  mother, 

Has  taught  me  I  am  blest ; 
For  I  can  look  with  joy,  mother, 

On  all  I  love  the  best. 
And  when  I  see  the  dancing  stream 

And  daisies  red  and  white, 
I'll  kneel  upon  the  meadow  sod 

And  thank  my  God  for  sight." 


A  POEM  BY  KEATS. 

I  cannot  see  what  -flowers  are  at  my  feet, 
Nor  what  soft  incense  hangs  upon  the  boughs  ; 
But  in  embalmed  darkness  guess  each  sweet 
Wherewith  the  seasonable  month  endows 
The  grass,  the  thicket,  and  the  fruit-tree  wild  ; 
White  hawthorn,  and  the  pastoral  eglantine  ; 
Past-fading  violets  covered  up  in  leaves  ; 
And  mid-May's  eldest  child, 
The  evening  musk -rose  full  of  dewy  wine, 
The  murmurous  haunt  of  flies  on  summer  eves.' 


THE  BLIND  BOY'S  EEFLECTIONS. 

"  Though  darkness  still  attends  me, 

It  aids  internal  sight ; 
And  from  such  scenes  defends  me, 
As  blush  to  see  the  light. 

"  No  villain's  smile  deceives  me, 

No  gilded  fop  offends, 
No  weeping  object  grieves  me, 
Kind  darkness  me  befriends. 

"  Henceforth  no  useless  wailings, 

I  find  no  reason  why  ; 
Mankind,  to  their  own  failings, 
Are  all  as  blind  as  I. 


508  BLINDNESS   AND    THE    BLIND. 

"  Who  painted  vice  desires, 

Is  blind,  whate'er  he  thinks  ; 
Who  virtue  not  admires, 
Is  either  blind  or  winks." 


EYES   AND   TEARS. 

It  is  remarkable  that  the  Creator  has  ordained  that  the  organs 
which  are  instrumental  in  conveying  to  mankind  the  greatest 
number  of  pleasurable  sensations,  should  also  be  employed  to 
exhibit  man's  deepest  grief;  and  in  connection  with  this  subject 
Andrew  Marvel  says,  in  a  poem  entitled  '  Eyes  and  Tears,' — 

"  How  wisely  Nature  did  decree 
With  the  same  eyes  to  weep  and  see  ! 
That  having  view'd  the  object  vain, 
They  might  be  ready  to  complain. 
And,  since  the  self-deluding  sight, 
In  a  false  angle  takes  each  height, 
These  tears  which  better  measure  all 
Like  wat'ry  lines  and  plummets  fall. 
Two  tears,  with  sorrow  long  did  weigh, 
Within  the  scales  of  either  eye, 
And  then  paid  out  in  equal  poise, 
Are  the  true  price  of  all  my  joys. 
What  in  the  world  most  fair  appears, 
Yea,  even  laughter  turns  to  tears  : 
And  all  the  jewels  which  we  prize, 
Melt  in  these  pendants  of  the  eyes. 
I  have  through  every  garden  been, 
Amongst  the  red,  the  white,  the  green  ; 
And  yet  from  all  those  flow'rs  I  saw, 
No  honey,  but  these  tears  could  draw. 
So  the  all-seeing  sun  each  day 
Distils  the  world  with  chemic  ray  ; 
But  finds  the  essence  only  showers, 
Which  straight  in  pity  back  he  pours. 
Yet  happy  they  whom  grief  doth  bless, 
That  weep  the  more,  and  see  the  less  ; 
And,  to  preserve  their  sight  more  true, 
Bathe  still  their  eyes  in  their  own  dew. 
So  Magdalen,  in  tears  more  wise, 
Dissolv'd  those  captivating  eyes, 


Whose  liquid  chains  could  flowing  meet, 
To  fetter  her  Redeemer's  feet. 
Not  full  sails  hasting  loaden  home, 
Nor  the  chaste  lady's  pregnant  womb, 
Nor  Cynthia  teeming  shows  so  fair, 
As  two  eyes,  swol'n  with  weeping,  are. 
The  sparkling  glance  that  shoots  desire, 
Drench'd  in  these  waves,  does  lose  its  fire. 
Yea,  oft  the  Thunderer  pity  takes, 
And  here  the  hissing  lightning  slakes. 
The  incense  was  to  Heaven  dear, 
Not  as  a  perfume,  but  a  tear  ! 
And  stars  show  lovely  in  the  night, 
But  as,  they  seem,  the  tears  of  light. 
Ope,  then,  mine  eyes,  your  double  sluice, 
And  practise  so  your  noblest  use  ; 
For  others,  too,  can  see,  or  sleep, 
But  only  human  eyes  can  weep  ; 
Now,  like  two  clouds  dissolving,  drop, 
And  at  each  tear  in  distance  stop  : 
Now,  like  two  fountains,  trickle  down : 
Now,  like  two  floods,  o'er-run  and  drown : 
Thus  let  your  streams  o'erflow  your  springs, 
Till  eyes  and  tears  be  the  same  things ; 
And  each  the  other's  difference  bears  ; 
Those  weeping  eyes,  those  seeing  tears." 


A  description  of  various  educational  appliances  referred  to  in 
this  volume,  and  sold  at  the  Depots  of  the  Association  for  Pro- 
moting the  General  Welfare  of  the  Blind,  210,  Oxford  Street, 
near  Portman  Square,  W.,  and  125  and  127,  Euston  Road,  N.W., 
London. 

A  PEN-GUIDE  TO  ENABLE  THE  BLIND  TO  WRITE  WITH  INK. 
Price  5s. 

This  appliance  is  designed  to  enable  a  blind  person  to  affix  his 
signature  to  documents  ;  it  also  affords  the  means  by  which  he 
may  write  letters  and  address  envelopes  in  ink.  With  sufficient 
study  this  instrument  is  capable  of  being  used  by  those  blind 
from  childhood,  as  well  as  by  those  who  have  lost  their  sight  in 
mature  life. 

The  contrivance  consists  of  a  small  board,  six  inches  long,  four 
inches  broad,  and  half  an  inch  thick.  Across  the  board  is  placed 


510  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

a  strip  of  wood,  six  inches  long,  half  an  inch  broad,  and  about 
3-16ths  of  an  inch  thick.  The  strip  of  wood  is  fastened  to  the 
board  at  one  end,  and  it  has  a  channel  in  its  upper  surface,  which 
runs  throughout  the  whole  length.  The  paper  must  be  placed 
between  the  board  and  the  strip  of  wood,  and  be  pressed  upon 
the  two  pairs  of  pins  which  will  be  found  near  the  top  and  the 
bottom  of  the  board.  Before,  however,  pressing  the  pins 
through  the  paper,  care  should  be  taken  to  see  that  the  edge  of 
the  paper  is  close  to  the  raised  side  of  the  board — both  above 
and  below  the  two  pairs  of  pins. 

The  pen  employed  is  one  of  the  common  kind,  and  to  it  is  at- 
tached a  small  projecting  piece  of  metal,  which  is  called  the 
protector. 

The  protector  works  upon  the  grooved  strip  of  wood  above 
described,  and  the  point  of  the  pen  moves  at  the  same  time,  and 
in  like  manner  as  the  protector.  In  making  short  strokes  the 
protector  moves  upwards  and  downwards  in  the  groove,  touching 
at  each  motion  the  top  and  bottom  lines.  When  a  long  stroke 
is  to  be  made,  the  protector  is  moved  out  of  the  groove  on  to  the 
raised  line  on  the  top  or  the  bottom,  as  the  case  may  require ; 
care  being  taken  that  the  point  of  the  pen  be  not  removed  from 
the  paper  while  the  protector  is  being  raised  from  the  groove  to 
a  raised  line.  The  forefinger  of  the  left  hand  follows  the  pro- 
tector to  measure  the  distance  between  words,  and  to  keep  the 
place  when  the  pen  is  removed  to  obtain  ink,  etc. 

To  prevent  the  ink  being  exhausted  before  a  fresh  supply  is 
obtained,  the  pen  should  be  refilled  after  every  eight  letters.  A 
shallow  inkstand  should  be  used,  so  that  the  pen  may  touch  the 
bottom,  and  thereby  indicate  that  a  good  supply  of  ink  is  secured. 
Before  a  fresh  line  is  begun,  the  paper  must  be  moved  one  degree 
upwards,  which  may  be  done  by  taking  it  off  the  two  pairs  of 
pins,  and  placing  the  hole  that  was  made  in  the  paper  by  the 
second  pin  upon  the  top  pin,  and  the  bottom  hole  upon  the 
second  pin  from  the  bottom,  at  the  same  time  pressing  the  paper 
upon  the  other  two  pins  so  as  to  make  two  fresh  holes. 

The  smallness  of  the  apparatus  enables  it  to  be  carried  in  a 
coat  pocket,  and  the  protector  will  fit  any  pen. 

As  the  point  of  the  pen  is  not  required  to  come  in  contact  with 
-a  guide,  a  blot  cannot  easily  occur. 

In  making  the  long  strokes,  the  forefinger  of  the  left  hand 
keeps  the  protector  from  slipping  off  the  raised  line  on  to  the 
paper,  and  thus  prevents  the  letters  from  being  made  too  long. 

A  CARD  TO  ENABLE  THE  BLIND  TO  WRITE  WITH  A  PENCIL. 

This  appliance  consists  of  a  piece  of  cardboard  of  about  eleven 

inches  long,  by  nine  broad.     Across  the  card  are  placed  a 


APPENDIX.  511 

number  of  strips  of  the  same  material.  The  strips  are  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  broad,  and  are  placed  three-eighths  of  an  inch 
apart. 

In  using  this  contrivance,  place  the  card  between  the  two 
halves  of  a  sheet  of  paper,  so  that  one  half  of  the  sheet  is  under 
the  card,  and  the  other  half  rests  upon  the  raised  strips  or  lines. 
Press  the  paper  lightly  with  the  hand,  and  see  that  the  paper  is 
kept  straight  by  the  top  edge  being  against  the  bottom  of  one  ot 
the  lines.  The  pencil  in  forming  the  letters  traverses  between 
the  raised  lines,  and  when  the  end  of  a  word  is  reached  the  fore- 
finger of  the  left  hand  is  placed  against  the  pencil.  The  pencil 
is  then  removed,  and  the  space  necessary  to  be  left  blank  before 
the  next  word  is  commenced,  is  measured  with  the  finger.  Care 
must  be  taken  to  feel  that  the  point  of  the  pencil  touches  the 
raised  line  each  time  that  it  makes  the  bottom  of  a  letter. 

The  tails  below  the  line  are  made  by  taking  the  pencil  up  on 
to  the  raised  line,  and  when  the  tail  is  made  the  pencil  returns 
again  to  the  indented  space.  The  tall  letters  are  made  by  taking 
the  pencil  on  to  the  line  above,  and  then  returning  it  to  the  in- 
dented space  as  before. 

Attached  to  the  writing  card  is  a  kind  of  pocket  to  hold  a 
small  quantity  of  paper. 

EMBOSSED  WRITING  COPIES  FOE  THE  BLIND.    Price  6d. 

These  copies  consist  of  the  writing  alphabet  used  by  the 
sighted,  and  contain  the  small  letters,  the  capitals,  and  the 
figures  ;  they  are  designed  to  make  those  blind  from  infancy 
acquainted  with  the  common  mode  of  writing,  and  also  to  refresh 
the  memory  of  those  who  lose  their  sight  in  mature  life. 

The  letters  are  so  formed  that  the  most  intricate  of  them  may 
be  made  without  the  pen  or  pencil  being  once  taken  off  the  paper. 
Any  person  of  average  capacity  may  be  enabled  in  a  short  time, 
by  the  aid  of  these  copies,  and  of  the  two  appliances  before 
described,  to  sign  his  name  to  a  document,  and  to  write  a  letter 
either  with  pencil  or  with  pen  and  ink. 

AN  APPARATUS  TO  ENABLE  THOSE  DEPRIVED  OF  SIGHT  TO  WRITE 
SO  THAT  THEIR  LETTERS  MAY  BE  READ  BY  THE  BLIND  AND 
BY  THE  SIGHTED.  Prices  12s.,  15s.,  and  £1.  Is. 

This  contrivance  consists  of  a  desk,  fifteen  inches  long,  twelve 
inches  broad,  and  three  inches  deep,  in  which  are  contained 
stamps  for  embossing  the  common  capital  letters  and  the  nu- 
merals. The  desk  also  contains  moveable  lines  used  to  secure 


5J2  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

the  paper  and  to  guide  the  operator,  and  a  moveable  cushion. 
Arrangements  are  made  to  keep  stationery  and  private  papers, 
and  the  desk  is  secured  by  a  lock  and  key.  The  desk  should  be 
placed  in  front  of  the  operator,  with  the  keyhole  to  the  left-hand. 
On  opening  the  desk,  it  will  be  found  to  consist  mainly  of  two 
parts  ;  that  to  the  left  having  a  velvet  cushion,  and  that  to  the 
right  being  covered  with  wood.  Beneath  the  velvet  cushion  is 
the  receptacle  for  stationery  and  private  papers.  The  right- 
hand  compartment  is  divided  into  a  number  of  cells,  rather  more 
than  an  inch  square,  each  of  which  contains  a  letter  of  the  al- 
phabet. These  letters  are  formed  by  sharp  brass  pins  inserted 
into  small  oblong  pieces  of  wood.  The  cells  above  named  are 
divided  into  three  rows  ;  and  the  letters  may  easily  be  found  by 
it  being  remembered  that  "A"  begins  and  "I"  ends  the  first 
row;  "J"  begins  and  "R"  ends  the  second  row;  and  "S" 
begins  and  the  "  &  "  ends  the  third  row. 

A  sheet  of  paper  being  laid  upon  the  cushion,  care  should  be 
taken  to  see  that  the  top  and  right-hand  edges  are  placed  evenly 
with  the  wood-work ;  the  paper  must  then  be  secured  by  means 
of  a  thin  bar  of  wood  being  placed  across  it.  The  pegs  near  the 
ends  of  the  bar  must  be  placed  in  the  top  holes  at  the  sides  of 
the  cushion ;  and,  the  bar  being  pressed,  the  paper  will  be  kept 
steady  by  two  sharp  pins,  which  will  pass  through  it  and  enter 
the  cushion. 

In  the  higher-priced  desks  the  lines  are  written  along  a  brass 
ruler,  which  differs  somewhat  from  that  used  for  the  same  pur- 
pose in  the  cheaper  desks.  The  brass  ruler  is  placed  across  the 
paper,  two  pegs  entering  holes  at  the  sides  of  the  cushion.  One 
side  of  the  ruler  will  be  found  to  be  covered  with  notches 
throughout  its  whole  length  ;  this  side  should  be  placed  towards 
the  top  of  the  paper.  A  metallic  slide,  having  a  projection,  will 
also  be  found  on  the  ruler.  This  projection,  during  the  opera- 
tion of  writing,  should  be  kept  towards  the  top  of  the  paper. 

The  writing  is  performed  from  right  to  left ;  the  raised  letters 
being  read  on  the  reverse  side  of  the  paper.  Each  of  the  small 
pieces  of  wood  with  the  sharp  brass  pins  has  a  notch  in  it,  which 
serves  to  point  out  the  bottom  of  the  letter.  This  notch  should 
be  kept  toward  the  ruler  when  the  letter  is  being  used. 

A  letter  having  been  procured  with  the  right  hand  is  placed 
immediately  to  the  left  or  the  projection,  and  also  close  against 
the  ruler  ;  the  letter  must  be  pressed  into  the  paper,  and  while 
it  is  being  returned  with  the  right  hand  to  the  cell  it  originally 
occupied,  the  left  hand  is  engaged  in  moving  the  slide  two  notches, 
and  thus  preparing  it  to  receive  the  next  letter.  After  the  letter 
"  I"  only  one  notch  is  taken,  and  at  the  end  of  a  word  the  slide 
is  moved  three  degrees.  In  moving  the  slide  the  thumb  and 


APPENDIX.  513 

forefinger  must  be  placed  behind  it,  the  former  below,  and  the 
latter  above  the  ruler,  and  the  forefinger  must  press  the  part  of 
the  projection  close  to  the  ruler,  and  not  that  part  that  is  furthest 
from  it.  After  each  movement,  care  must  be  taken  to  press  the 
slide  back  against  the  last  notch ;  for  if  this  be  not  done  the 
spaces  between  the  letters  will  be  irregular.  When  a  line  is 
finished  the  slide  is  turned,  so  that  the  projection  is  brought 
into  a  vertical  position,  and  the  slide  may  then  be  drawn  from 
the  left  to  the  right  side  of  the  ruler  ;  the  ruler  may  then  be  re- 
moved to  the  holes  immediately  below  it,  and  the  writing  may 
be  proceeded  with  as  before.  If  any  difficulty  be  found  in  re- 
moving the  slide  after  a  line  has  been  completed,  the  pegs  of  the 
ruler  must  be  slightly  raised  in  the  holes,  when  the  slide  may  be 
drawn  back  with  ease.  The  number  of  holes  on  both  sides 
should  be  counted  if  any  doubt  arise  with  regard  to  the  ruler 
being  straight. 

At  the  extreme  right  of  the  desk  will  be  found  a  compartment 
containing  the  ten  numerals,  and  a  place  for  envelopes,  etc. 

The  cheaper  desks  have  a  ivooden  ruler,  without  a  slide,  and 
in  this  case  the  second  letter  is  placed  immediately  to  the  left  of 
the  first,  which  is  not  removed  until  the  second  has  been  pressed. 
The  words  are  divided  by  a  blank  piece  of  wood  being  put  be- 
tween them. 

The  small  pocket  apparatus  has  also  a  wooden  ruler,  and  the 
cells  containing  the  letters  run  from  left  to  right,  instead  of  from 
top  to  bottom. 

In  addressing  an  envelope  the  two  thicknesses  of  paper  must 
be  stamped  through  from  the  back  to  the  front,  to  do  which  more 
than  ordinary  pressure  must  be  applied  to  the  letters. 

AEITHMETICAL  APPARATUS .     Prices,  6s.  and  10s. 

This  appliance  is  intended  to  do  for  the  Blind  what  the  slate 
and  pencil  effect  for  the  sighted  ;  namely,  to  afford  a  ready  and 
easy  means  of  working  sums,  and  of  obliterating  the  figures 
when  they  are  no  longer  required. 

The  instrument  consists  of  a  box  fourteen  inches  long,  eight 
inches  wide,  and  about  an  inch  and  a  half  deep.  The  greater 
part  of  the  box  is  covered  by  a  metallic  plate,  and  the  remaining 
part  with  wood.  The  appliance  is  placed  with  one  end  towards 
the  operator  ;  that  part  of  the  box  covered  with  wood  being  close 
to  him. 

On  turning  the  button  and  opening  the  small  lid  on  the  right, 
a  portion  of  the  box  will  be  exposed,  in  which  may  be  found 
some  pins  without  points ;  if  there  be  not  any  pins  in  this  aperture, 
some  may  be  obtained  by  raising  a  few  inches  the  end  of  the 

2  L 


514  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

box  furthest  from  the  operator,  and  shaking  it  slightly  ;  this,  by 
causing  the  pins  to  slide  towards  the  opposite  end,  keeps  the 
place  supplied  from  which  the  pins  are  taken  by  the  hand.  The 
metallic  plate  is  covered  with  a  number  of  short  parallel  lines, 
which  are  raised  about  the  eighth  of  an  inch  above  the  surface. 
Each  line  has  two  holes  on  either  side,  which  are  placed  near  its 
angles.  The  characters  representing  the  ten  numerals  are  formed 
by  putting  pins  into  these  holes.  The  operation  is  as  follows  : 
by  inserting  a  pin  into  the  top  hole  on  the  left-hand  side  of  a 
line  the  figure  "  1  "  is  made ;  a  pin  at  the  bottom  of  the  left-hand 
side  represents  the  figure  "  2  ;"  at  the  right  top,  the  figure  "  3  ;" 
the  right  bottom  the  "  0;"  one  pin  at  the  top  and  another  at  the 
bottom  on  the  left  side  is  the  figure  "  4 ;"  one  at  the  left  and  one 
at  the  right  top,  "  5  ;"  the  left  top  and  the  right  bottom,  "  6 ;" 
the  left  bottom  and  right  top,  "  7  ;"  the  left  and  right  bottom, 
"  8 ;"  the  top  and  bottom  right,  "  9." 

It  will  be  seen  that  no  figure  requires  for  its  formation  more 
than  one  line,  and  that  not  more  than  two  pins  are  ever  used  to 
represent  a  single  figure. 

To  find  the  holes  easily  the  pin  should  be  drawn  lightly  over 
the  plate  at  the  same  time  that  it  is  pressed  against  the  line  in 
use ;  and  it  should  be  drawn  up  or  down  the  line  according  to  the 
figure  that  may  be  required  to  be  made  ;  in  this  way  the  hole 
sought  may  readily  foe  discovered. 

When  it  is  wished  to  return  the  pins  to  the  box,  the  metallic 
plate  is  raised  from  its  flat  position  by  taking  hold  of  the  piece 
of  wood  that  projects  into  the  place  from  which  the  pins  are 
taken ;  the  plate  is  turned  quite  over,  so  that  the  top  is  brought 
to  where  the  bottom  was,  and  the  metallic  side  of  the  plate  is 
downward  towards  the  box.  By  this  means  the  pins  used  in 
working  the  sum  will  fall  out  of  the  plate  into  the  box,  and  thus 
the  trouble  is  avoided  fo  replacing  them  one  by  one.  In  case 
some  of  the  pins  should  not  fall  out,  the  plate  should  be  shaken 
to  produce  the  desired  effect. 

The  signs  for  Addition,  Subtraction,  Multiplication,  and 
Division,  are  made  as  follows : — 

Addition. — Top  and  bottom  left,  and  top  right. 

Subtraction. — Top  and  bottom  left,  and  bottom  right. 

Multiplication. — Bottom  left,  and  top  and  bottom  right. 

Division. — Top  and  bottom  left,  and  top  and  bottom  right. 

It  will  be  observed  that  none  of  these  signs  require  more 
than  one  line  for  their  formation. 

A  TANGIBLE  MEASURING  TAPE.    Price  3s. 
The  Yard  Measure  enables  any  one  to  measure  by  touch  the 
circumference  and  the  diameter  of  any  object.     It  consists  of  a 


APPENDIX.  515 

3>iece  of  tape,  on  which  the  inches  are  marked  in  the  common 
figures. 

The  exact  boundary  of  the  inches  is  shown  by  a  thin  line 
reaching  across  the  tape,  and  the  distance  between  the  half 
inches  by  a  line  half  across  the  tape. 

When  a  measurement  has  been  taken,  the  thumb  of  the  right 
hand  should  be  placed  under  the  tape  to  support  the  figure  it  is 
wished  to  feel  with  the  forefinger  of  the  same  hand. 

The-  Measure  is  extremely  light,  so  that  it  may  be  carried  in 
the  pocket. 


A  CHESS  AND  DRAUGHT  BOARD.     Prices,  large  size,  12s.  ;  with 
Draughts,  15s.     For  the  pocket,  9s. ;  with  Draughts,  12s. 

The  larger  Chess  and  Draught  Board  consists  of  a  box  about 
twelve  inches  square,  by  two  deep.  The  cover  of  the  box  forms 
the  board  on  which  the  playing  is  carried  on,  and  the  box  itself 
is  used  to  hold  the  pieces  when  out  of  use. 

The  difference  in  the  colour  of  the  squares  on  the  board  is 
made  tangible  by  the  black  squares  being  raised  above  the 
white. 

The  Chessmen  and  the  Draught  pieces  are  alike  furnished 
with  pegs,  which  keep  them  steady  when  the  pegs  are  placed  in 
the  holes  on  the  board.  In  Chess  the  black  pieces  are  generally 
distinguished  from  the  white  by  each  black  piece  having  a  dot 
on  the  top  ;  but  in  the  case  of  the  black  Bishops  the  distinction 
is  made  by  the  corners  being  allowed  to  project  at  the  sides. 

The  colour  of  the  draught  pieces  is  perceived  by  the  surface 
of  the  black  being  rougher  than  that  of  the  white. 

In  playing  at  draughts,  when  a  king  is  made,  the  peg  of  one 
piece  is  placed  into  the  hole  at  the  top  of  the  other  piece,  which 
keeps  the  top  piece  firm ;  so  that  the  two  pieces  are  moved  to- 
gether without  difficulty. 

When  a  piece  is  taken,  the  board  is  drawn  back,  and  the 
pieces  dropped  into  the  box. 

The  place  for  the  white  pieces  is  divided  from  that  for  the 
black  by  a  partition  running  across  the  box. 

The  Chess  and  Draught  Board  for  the  pocket  shuts  up  like  a 
small  box;  and,  unlike  the  larger  board,  the  squares  are  not 
placed  on  the  outside.  The  smaller  board  has  a  false  back, 
which  is  removed  before  playing  is  commenced.  The  games  of 
chess  and  draughts  are  played  by  a  blind  person  in  the  same 
way  as  by  his  seeing  antagonist ;  the  only  difference  being  that 
the  one  looks  at  the  pieces,  whilst  the  other  feels  his  own  and  his 
adversary's  positions. 


516  BLINDNESS   AND   THE    BLIND. 

AN  INSTRUCTION  BOOK  FOE  THE  PIANOFORTE. — According  to 
Hamilton  ;  embossed  on  the  ordinary  system  of  Musical  Nota- 
tion as  used  by  the  Sighted.  Vol.  1.  10*.  6d. 

The  objects  of  this  work  are  to  make  the  blind  acquainted 
with  musical  notation  as  used  by  the  sighted,  to  supply  them 
with  elementary  musical  knowledge,  and  to  afford  the  means 
whereby  blind  teachers  of  the  pianoforte  may,  when  giving 
lessons,  have  under  their  fingers  precisely  the  same  signs  that 
their  seeing  pupils  have  before  their  eyes.  The  first  volume  is 
about  14  inches  long,  12  broad,  and  4  thick.  It  consists  of  98 
pages,  each  containing  17  lines  of  letter- press,  or  4  staves  of 
music.  The  length  of  each  line  is  about  11  inches. 

In  using  the  book,  the  music  should  be  read  with  the  left  hand 
above  the  right,  that  the  signs  above  and  below  the  stave  may 
be  readily  felt. 


A  MARINER'S  COMPASS.     Price  7s.  6d. 

This  little  instrument  is  similar  in  shape  and  size  to  the  pocket 
Mariner's  Compass  in  common  use,  viz.  about  three  inches 
square,  and  one  inch  thick.  Its  principal  use  to  the  blind  is  to 
enable  them  to  study  geography  more  correctly  than  could  be 
done  without  its  aid ;  but  it  has  sometimes  been  employed  to 
help  a  blind  person  to  find  his  way  when  he  has  been  walking 
without  a  guide  and  has  missed  his  road. 

To  ascertain  the  north  of  the  horizon,  the  compass  should  be 
placed  upon  a  table  or  other  steady  object,  and  the  lid  having 
been  opened,  a  few  seconds  should  be  allowed  for  the  needle  to 
settle,  when  the  small  knob  on  the  rim  of  the  box  should  be 
pressed,  which  will  at  once  stop  the  needle.  A  small  dot  will  be 
noticed  near  one  extremity  of  the  needle ;  this  dot  is  to  show 
the  end  that  points  to  the  north. 

To  see  if  the  needle  had  settled  before  it  was  stopped,  the  box 
should  be  turned  round  so  that  the  right-hand  side  may  be 
placed  where  the  left  hand  was,  and  then  another  observation 
should  be  taken  as  before.  If  the  two  observations  agree,  it 
may  be  assumed  that  the  correct  point  has  been  found.  If  they 
differ,  a  third  observation  must  be  taken,  that  correctness  may 
be  ensured. 

The  needle  points  out  the  north  of  the  horizon,  and  not  the 
word  north  on  the  box.  The  printed  paper,  containing  the  names 
of  the  thirty-two  points  of  the  compass,  is  placed  in  the  box, 
that  the  relative  positions  of  the  points  with  regard  to  each  other 
may  be  learnt. 


APPENDIX.  517 


A  TANGIBLE  WEATHEB  GUIDE.     Prices  Is.  and  2s. 

The  above  admirable  contrivance  indicates  whether  the  atmo- 
sphere is  dry  or  damp,  and  therefore  it  points  out  whether  or  no 
it  is  probable  that  there  will  be  rain  during  the  day. 

The  correctness  of  its  indications  is  surprising ;  and  as  it  is 
the  only  instrument  by  which  the  blind  can  get  an  idea  of  the 
probable  state  of  the  weather,  its  value  is  far  from  being  incon- 
siderable. 

The  Weather  Guide  consists  of  a  cardboard  model  of  a  church 
or  of  a  cottage.  The  model  has  two  doors.  Out  of  the  door  at 
the  right-hand  comes  a  figure,  to  the  touch  like  a  doll,  which 
act  indicates  that  the  atmosphere  is  damp  ;  and  out  of  the  door 
at  the  left-hand  a  similar  figure  comes  when  the  air  is  dry. 
The  figure  in  the  right-hand  door  looks  like  a  man  in  a  great 
coat,  and  that  in  the  other  door  like  a  woman  dressed  for  a  walk 
in  the  sunshine.  To  the  touch,  these  figures  present  little  dif- 
ference, but  the  opposite  doors  out  of  which  they  come  afford 
sufficient  indication  of  the  state  of  the  weather. 

Should  the  action  of  the  figures  become  deranged,  it  may 
easily  be  regulated  by  attending  to  the  instructions  at  the  back 
of  the  Weather  Guide. 


NEEDLES  FOE  THE  BLIND.     Sixpence  per  packet. 

These  needles  differ  from  those  in  common  use,  in  that  they 
have  a  small  oblique  opening  in  the  eye,  into  which  the  thread 
is  easily  pressed.  The  sections  of  the  eye  closing  from  within 
prevent  the  thread  from  slipping  out. 

A  loop  is  made  by  the  thread  being  held  distended  with  the 
thumb  and  forefinger  of  the  right  hand.  The  needle,  being  held 
in  the  left  hand,  is  placed  in  the  loop,  with  the  small  opening  in 
the  eye  of  the  needle  against  the  thread  which  is  then  pressed 
into  the  eye. 

The  needles  are  made  of  different  sizes,  and  may  be  had  in 
numbers  corresponding  to  those  generally  sold. 


THE  LEGAL  POSITION  OF  THE  BLIND. 


The  exact  status  of  persons  without  sight,  in  the  eye  of  the 
law,  is  far  from  being  clearly  defined.  That  they  are  not  in  the 
same  position  as  ordinary  citizens  is  shown  by  the  existence  of 


518  BLINDNESS    AND   THE    BLIND. 

certain  Acts  or  statutes  which  provide  exceptionally  for  the 
Blind  and  for  other  specified  classes. 

It  is  true  that  these  Acts  are,  for  the  most  part,  very  obscure 
and  of  little  importance ;  but  there  is  one  matter  about  which 
there  ought  to  be  no  mistake,  and  that  cannot  be  too  widely 
known,  viz.  the  way  in  which  a  blind  man  should  make  a  will. 

The  blind  person  having  signed  his  name  or  affixed  his  cross 
to  the  document  in  the  presence  of  two  persons,  those  persons 
should  sign  the  paper  as  witnesses  of  the  act,  putting  after  their 
names  these  words  : — "  This  will  having  been  read  over  to  the 
testator  in  our  presence,  he  being  blind."  Of  course  the  wit- 
nesses would  put  before  their  names,  "  Witnessed  by  us." 
Should  a  cross  be  affixed  instead  of  a  signature,  some  one  should 
write  the  name  of  the  testator  before  it,  adding  the  words,  "  his 
mark." 

In  all  cases  in  which  it  is  practicable,  it  is  better  to  obtain 
the  aid  of  a  solicitor  in  making  a  will ;  but  even  under  such 
circumstances  it  might  be  well  to  direct  his  attention  to  the 
foregoing  remarks. 


TAYLOR,  AND   CO.,   PRINTERS, 
LITTLE   QUEEN   STREET,  LINCOLN'S  INN  FIELDS. 


University  of  California 

SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 

Return  this  material  to  the  library 

from  which  it  was  borrowed. 


A    000  031  328 


